ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e43	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Sverre Myrli and Hans Olav Syversen on leave from 8 December to 10 December – all to take part in the Transatlantic Forum with the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in Washington from the representatives of Åsmund Aukrust, Tina Bru, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Ola Elvestuen, Oskar J. Grimstad as well as the meeting of the alternate of Oslo, Ingunn Gjerstad, on leave from 8 December to 12 December – all to participate in the high-level part of the 20th Conference of the Parties under the United Nations Climate Convention and the 20th Meeting of the Parties under the Kyoto Protocol, in Lima from the General Group of the Progressive Party on Permitation of the Representative Kenneth Svendsen from 8 December to 12 December for, as chairman of the United Kingdom IPU Delegation, to take part in the Parliamentary Conference of the 20th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, in Lima from 8 December to 12 December Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, have requested a waiver from the meeting of the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ leave on 8 and 9 December, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health and Anne Odenmarck For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Mette Hanekamhaug and Steinar Reiten For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Greta Johanne Solfall For Oslo: Olivia Corso Salles, Pål Yasin Ezzari, Guri Melby and Anne Kathrine Skreyshammer For the Rogaland County: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e141	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that the meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e155	We are now going to deal with the budget of the Control and Constitutional Committee, which is the framework area 14. This is, as the Storting knows, one of the smallest frames, and probably the least controversial. The appropriations for this framework comprise the Royal House and the Stortinget and its underlying organs, amounting to a total of SEK 2.2 billion. kr. An overall committee is behind the recommendation and the Committee's comments are unanimous. I am the case rapporteur for the budget chapters of the Stortinget and the National Audit Office, and let me briefly say something about this. The appropriations for the Storting shall be at the top of a total of 1,4 billion. kr. The largest items are operating costs, major purchases of equipment and grants to the batch groups. It is estimated that it will cost 875 million. to operate the Storting next year. Furthermore, the item for major equipment purchases and maintenance is large this time, nearly 350 million. kr, which is due to the extensive work of rehabilitating Stortinget's premises in Prinsensgate. It is important for all of us that we have a well-functioning and well-functioning magnification. The size is the workplace of representatives, party groups and the administration. In addition, there is an important meeting place for a wide range of interests: school classes, visits from home and abroad, etc. But first of all, the Stortinget is the country's most important institution and the country's most important building, and in this anniversary year, we really have reason to be proud of our greatness. Therefore, from my point of view, I would like to take the opportunity to praise the fine work that has been done in connection with the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. As head of the Control and Constitutional Committee, I have had the pleasure and honour of attending a number of events. It has been both inspiring and instructive. With the anniversary, people have been better acquainted with the important events at Eidsvoll 200 years ago and the importance of the Constitution for the society we have often built up over these 200 years. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has also worked hard to contribute to the anniversary of 17 May, when the Committee examined the proposals for modernising the language of the Constitution and new provisions on human rights. We could thus celebrate the very anniversary with a linguistic and content-updated constitution, which can reach far more than what has been the case in the past. Then to the National Auditorate. It is well known that it is the largest external control body in Storting, which is supposed to help us carry out parliamentary control. This is a formidable task which, as parliamentarians, we are unable to deal with alone. The national audit provides 12 to 13 management audit reports each year, as well as a report on state ownership and a report on the audit of accounts, where the entire central government has been under scrutiny. These are sound and professional reports, and constitute the backbone of the work of the Control Committee. Some may at times feel that the Riksrevision goes too far to work, but we are still seeing examples of the Riksrevision helping to improve management – and that is precisely the point. The Committee has held audits in three cases from the National Audit Office for the current year. We look forward to several interesting and challenging reports from the National Audit Office also in 2015, and join the proposal for appropriations for the National Audit Office. The Committee's budgetary framework also includes appropriations for the other underlying institutions of the Storting. The Civil Ombudsman is the trustee of Stortinget, and is in charge of ensuring that there is no injustice to the individual citizen. The Ombudsman has an important role in our society, and probably knows better than most where the administration fails or is going to fall short – it is an important role. We would like the Ombudsman to send several messages to Stortinget. The EOS Committee has the demanding job of controlling the so-called secret services – and this too is a very important democratic control. We see that the 2015 budget assumes that the sample and its secretariat are growing. There are major challenges and great attention to the country’s intelligence and security services, and it is reassuring to have a robust control body that is constantly monitoring the operation of the services within the framework provided by the Stortinge. The Defence Ombudsman makes an important effort to ensure the rights of defence officers and defence personnel. Through visits and review procedures, the Ombudsman helps to improve the effectiveness of the defence. In 2015, a new national human rights institution shall be established. Today, $9.3 million is granted. kr to this institution, which shall be organisationally under the Storting and shall be located and administratively connected to the Civil Ombudsman. We look forward to this institution starting up, and join in the proposal for allocation. On this basis, I recommend the setting of the control committee as presented to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e189	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e203	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines, with replies from the main speakers for each group of parties and from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e212	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Work and, in particular, the Cooperation Parties Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party for the consensus we have now reached in the Committee and the flexibility that has been demonstrated. In particular, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the Committee Secretary for what I would call fantastic help and assistance during this process. At first, I think it is important to put the debate we have today into a wider perspective. Researchers from the UN Environment Programme, UNEP, estimate that we share the earth with about 100 million other species. Less than 2 million of these are described today. And life's diversity disappears quickly. Today species die out at a rate up to 1000 times higher than natural. The UN Environment Programme has estimated that it disappears from 150 to 200 species worldwide every day. Only on the Norwegian Red List are almost 2400 species threatened. At the same time, scientific findings from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) show that the trend of increasing global CO2 emissions must be reversed in the near future if we are to manage to avoid severe climate change. Important policy action must be taken as quickly as possible to reduce global total greenhouse gas emissions by between 50 and at least 80 pst. by 2050. These are dramatic numbers -- 50 pst. by 2030. I believe that the government budget that was adopted is an answer to these problems and challenges. That is not the whole answer, not a good enough answer – then I think we had to adopt the alternative budget of the Left – but an answer that provides a good basis for the work of the next year. The budget has been significantly strengthened following the first presentation by the government. There is an increase in the environment and climate of nearly 1.9 billion. where there is a significant investment in public transport and environmentally friendly transport solutions. For business, the budget represents a significant strengthening of both Enova and the Eco-Technology Scheme, two highly good and targeted schemes that contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian enterprises. I would also like to commend the government for making proposals to change the depreciation rules for wind power, so that Norwegian companies can now also be competitive in relation to the Swedish in that field and we get an increased development and development of climate-friendly power also in Norway. It is used in the budget – and it must be part of the big picture – 879 million. kr extra on public transport, including 325 million. SEK for public transport in urban areas and SEK 498 million. to the railway in addition to the government's proposal. Nature conservation and biodiversity are strengthened by 350 million in the budget. SEK, including an increase in the forest protection effort of 210 million. kr. This is important, it's still just about 2,6 pst. of the Norwegian forest protected and an important work to be carried forward. The cooperation parties have a significant addition and increase in the budgets relating to wild game. This applies to both liming and control of gyrodactylus, with Salmon Barrier in Driva and a bet in the Rana area. I would also like to take with me – with great joy – that we have the first allocation for the establishment of salmon centres. It is extremely important both in Tana and Namsen to have better local management of the wildax strain if possible. I am also pleased that we now have a direct allocation to the Round Environmental Centre. There is a great deal of knowledge about the coherence of the sea, and this is a centre that can contribute to the work being done, by itself, but also so that higher education and research institutions can have a meeting place where they can use and exploit the facilities that are there. Then for the first time, we have a grant to fight marine pollution, a major international problem, where we now have 10 million. To start this work also more systematically from Norway. Threatened species and habitat types are reinforced by 20 million. kr in the contract, environmental monitoring of 25 million. kr. I would also like to take into account the fact that we are continuing to secure the Copernicus space programme, which is also an important environmental measure, both in Norway and elsewhere in Europe. Finally, I would like to take into account that cultural memory protection is strengthened – both in the field of ship protection and cultural memory protection in general – and environmental organisations are not cut. Finally, I want to bring a 10-million bet. kr, which is right to do in what is the Year of Outdoor Life – 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e241	I want to use this line to praise the Left, both for having been so clear that the government put forward, just wasn't good enough, and for having corrected a part of what was a bad starting point. The State budget really shows that the government is an outpost in environmental policy, or as Trine Skei Grande said in the election campaign: the Progress Party is not just on another planet, but in another climate policy universe. The government is now to present its international climate commitments by 2030. It's very unclear where the government will land. The only thing that's clear is that it's possible to get something more offensive in this hall based on a different majority than the government belongs to. So my question to Elvesuen is whether he and Left will join in and demand that the Stortinge are formally involved in the delivery of our international climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e248	First of all, I do not think I fully agree with the premise. If there's one thing we've seen in the last year, it's that we have a change of pace in environmental policy, and it's a change of pace especially in climate policy. It's actually the new bourgeois majority that makes us have a stake now. We're implementing a green tax shift in this budget that we haven't been close to with the previous government, and you have a dynamic that you haven't seen in the last eight years. In terms of climate targets, I believe that we will also be able to reach an offensive consensus there. However, I fully agree with the representative that this must be done for Stortinget, and it is the Stortinget that must adopt the formal objectives that must also be notified to the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. And at least we need to pursue an objective equivalent to that of the EU – in the view of the Left, in addition to having an offensive approach to the international work that Norway can do in addition to what we are committed to cutting here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e255	We are dealing with a budget on which there has been less disagreement – we have to admit – because the Left and the Christian People's Party has managed to move the Right and the Advance Party in the right direction, sailing if in many areas there are still things that should have been done in a different and far better way than what the government is proposing. We're going to have a lot of future discussions about climate policy and different parts of it, and one of the points we're going to talk about is how the role of the oil fund is in terms of climate. An expert committee – which the Left and Christian People's Party have been waiting for – said yesterday that one should use ownership instead of pulling the oil fund out of the coal. But Terje Breivik of the Left has said that the Left insists that the best solution is what they stood for last year, namely to withdraw from the coal companies. The question is: does the Left consider ownership rather than withdrawal? And if you want to get out of the coal in the oil fund, when does the Left intend to vote for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e264	It is precisely the position of the Left in the Storting that makes us have this debate at all. The centre party has been in government for eight years and has not been willing to take the discussion if we are going to use the oil fund more actively in a climate direction. So the fact that we now have that process is a set of choices last year. The left is very pleased that we have an expert committee. Now we get the first report, and then we're going to have a hearing on it – which is very important – and when it's going, of course, you're going to have to thoroughly go into it, and you're going to have votes in Stortinget. On the left hand side, it is quite clear that you should withdraw from the coal, and we believe that you should look further, that you should also look at oil and gas companies. If you don't want to do that, you have to have an environmental justification for why you don't pull out, that's that you're involved in driving the business in a more climate-friendly direction, or that the company itself operates in a more climate-friendly direction. This is a historic and very good process that could produce a result that is significant far beyond Norway’s borders — with what is, of course, the country’s most important muscle internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e275	Norwegian climate policy has been characterised by a lot of talk about objectives and the fact, as everyone knows well, that it is not being delivered on those objectives. The climate cuts, the emissions cuts, don't come. All governments have been much better than the previous government in terms of a little more investment on the environmental side, a little more new measures etc., and have been able to hit the chest with progress. The left represents government cooperation that does the same: refers to good action, claims that they are going to reverse the trend, but they are still in the same Norwegian tradition: not to document in any area and not to commit in any area in terms of how much emissions we are going to get, using what tools and when. So the question is, how will the Left make sure that this time we can measure whether the promises of emissions can actually be realized?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e286	The measurement is done. We receive annual reports from the Statistical Central Bureau on the results. They're coming to spring, too. Then I do not agree that there is no great grip. In the transport sector in particular, a green tax shift is taking place. With the electric car benefits we've had in the past, we're leading the world. What we're doing now with chargeable hybrids, what we're doing with biofuels, what we're doing with biogas, is something that's going to become more important in the years to come. And it is clear that with this Norway is at the forefront of international affairs. It also has an impact beyond the borders of the country by being a good example. The left fully concrete job after now, with a fixed look, is the 2020 targets, which are bringing the country down to 46.7 million. tonnes contained in the climate agreement. This is difficult, but the Environment Directorate has shown that it is still possible. It is also necessary to achieve a minimum reduction of 40 pst. towards 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e295	This is once again an estimate of the good measures taken. The question is: how does the Left and the Government know that increased road construction, the transition to freight transport on ships, continued high oil levels and a fundamental oil dependency in Norwegian society, no restrictions on fossil cars, etc., will not offset or even counteract the good environmental and climate action that is being advocated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e303	Firstly, the difference between the Left's environmental policy and the Greens' environmental policy is that the Left implements this. We're going to present this, and we're going to get it -- just like we've gotten it to before, at local level, with Oslo as an example. It is not just the state budget that is crucial. In the case of car-restrictive measures, it is very important that the different municipalities around the country also do so. We do not agree that bad roads are necessarily good environmental policies – we need to see everything in a context. There is also a considerable effort on the railways in the budget. There too, we are laying down at almost the level that the railway can handle today, and this must continue in the years to come. In order to get freight on ships, we need to use the lessons we learn from the conversion of road transport, also to make shipping cleaner. We also need to make it more competitive in relation to heavy road transport. You will never be able to give all the answers in advance – nor will the Green Party be able to do so. What is important is to launch concrete actions that deliver an impact locally — and then guide the way internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e316	The representative of Elvesuen expressed great joy at the civil majority's climate profile and said that there was now a change in the climate profile. I registered considerable anger, almost anger, from the representatives of the Left when the government budget was presented, because of the lack of climate profile in the government budget. Then my question is: does the representative Elvestuen agree that the budget presented by this government was very poor in terms of climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e323	What we were clear about when the budget was presented was that it was not the proposal that was presented that was crucial. That is what is decided upon in the Storting, which is absolutely crucial. With regard to this budget that is now adopted in Stortinget, I believe it is offensive, especially in the climate. We are implementing measures that have not been willing to implement in recent years. The important thing for the Left is to look at what parties are actually willing to do, and not just what parties are willing to say. The crucial thing now is what is actually adopted, which will be done next year, and then we will take a significant step in the right direction with this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e328	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e331	For the Workers' Party, a society with small differences and great opportunities for individuals is a goal. Unfortunately, we see that this quality is being challenged. They have to give at least so that they can get the most. It is taken in the wrong direction. In our draft budget, we have chosen to focus on the values we believe are important for people's future. We focus on outdoors, nature and good experiences. We are putting a significant effort on measures against floods and slips and on climate adaptation for more security. We spend more on forests, forest protection and forest planting. We will preserve the diversity of nature. We are making a significant strengthening of the environmental technology system, and we will assist the good ideas that can be created. We focus more on climate technology and reduce the risk to businesses. We'll bet on emission reductions in the car park and will make climate-friendly choices easier. We are betting on public transport in the big cities and strengthening mobility. We are focusing more on value creation and energy production in the green future, and we want to understand more of the many opportunities of knowledge in an oil sector that will be critical to our path into the low-carbon society. In many areas, we have developed many conflicting interests through the committee reading, and I would also like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation at a time when I think most people have experienced it as a challenge. But I would also like to take the opportunity to stress that the government, with its original draft budget, is those who are far removed from the committee's position. The government has chosen to place itself as an extreme in the national energy, environmental and climate debate. It's special, and we've seen that it's very demanding. Unfortunately, we have noticed that the concept of ‘nutritional neutrality’ is still in use — it is at a time when the low economic cycle characterises the petroleum-related part of Norwegian industry. The government has made an active choice to be passive, a choice that does not exactly get our agreement. As we enter the Christmas celebration, many in the Norwegian supplier industry are concerned about the future and their jobs. The working party is also concerned about the situation in the petroleum sector. It is also expressed through our consideration of the budget. Based on that situation, there is reason to ask questions as to whether cancellations and any lay-offs may be at the expense of necessary maintenance and safety. We therefore ask the government to pay particular attention to this. We also believe that it may be appropriate in the future for the Oil Directorate to be given opportunities to acquire a broader competence – in order to be able to take on more tasks, including: follow up on the contracts running on a Norwegian base. We believe that this can be important both for the Norwegian oil service industry and to reduce the cost picture on the Norwegian base. Johan Sverdrup is the largest investment to be made on a Norwegian base in perhaps decades. The procurement portfolio resulting from this single investment is crucial for the Norwegian supplier industry. In addition, several important investment decisions will be taken during this ageing period. Standardisation of contracts is one of several important instruments that underpins competition but at the same time reduces the level of costs on Norwegian soil. Another factor is that, in a low economic cycle, it should be possible to maintain a high level of maintenance in order to exploit a situation with less price pressure. Unfortunately, we do not see any trace of such descriptions in the budget or in the majority's leadership in the position. The Labour Party believes that a debate must now be held on how to exploit the knowledge in the petroleum sector for further activity, but also on how to convert the amazing knowledge into other areas. We have a proposal that is supported by the Center Party and SV, where we ask the government to review the situation of the Norwegian supplier industry, and where the purpose is just to explain what I am now saying. I am surprised that the government parties do not go into such a proposal, a proposal that can help to highlight opportunities and areas of activity for the largest and most important industry in Norway. Yes, understand who can. I would like to invite you to a broad cooperation just to be as rusty as the activity increases again. So despite the dissenting attitude of the government parties, I will challenge the oil and energy minister precisely on this. Will the Minister for Oil and Energy review the situation on his own initiative, describe the competence, look for opportunities and constraints in the sector and present a case in connection with the revised State budget? In the Workers' Party we work to find the opportunities. One of them is a stronger commitment to renewable energy. Let me first say that I think it is positive that the government has added up to more depreciation on wind power. On the other hand, I think it is less positive that we have not now concluded how much the depreciation rate should be, and likewise that the hydropower is not included. A further 40 pst write-down. the first four years of all certification powers will, in our opinion, be correct for the years remaining of the licence period. The main theme of the power crisis was a few years ago in these budget debates. The situation has turned around – we are moving towards a significant Nordic surplus of power in the years to come. In this context, it is important that we be able to focus on the industrial opportunities that result from this. It is important then that predictability of the CO2 compensation system, that we have a uniform and equivalent model in place to calculate the network tariff for power-generating industries, and that we adopt a principle decision on a reduced electricity charge for green data storage centres. In climate policy, we build on what has worked. We will take it further in our draft budget. A lot is done, but I think everyone admits that not enough is done. The climate summit in Paris in 2015 will be important for our common future. Over many years, Norway has built up a role as a strong driver with strong voices in international negotiations on climate change. We will soon decide on Norway's 2030 climate change target. I would like to express concerns and concerns about whether the government has really understood the seriousness of the fact that they are an extreme in the Norwegian climate debate. I would like to stress that the government is probably lacking back coverage in Stortinget if they do not include Stortinget in a reassuring way when the 2030 climate targets are to be set. The essence of politics is to meet the expectations you create. During the centenarian debate this year, the government chose to focus on climate. That's good. This led many to expect a budget with a clear climate profile. The climate orders from the debate on the throne disappeared as dew for the sun at the moment when the Minister of Finance entered the Chair of the Stortinge. Of course, it created reactions. Zero was among those who expressed it most clearly: ‘Missing climate leadership from Prime Minister Solberg’, they wrote in their press release. In an attempt to pair up the criticism, Prime Minister Erna Solberg said, "It's tougher to stand for the climate in a government where someone is not so busy about it." Yes, it's undoubtedly right, but it's a skinny comfort. A very poor climate budget has improved with the help of the Left and Christian People's Party. I want to pay tribute to the job and the patience they have shown, but I think everyone sees that a cooperation centre-left related to climate action would give a much better result. The reality is that the government will never provide a government budget where climate is given sufficient priority. The climate profile must be initiated from Stortinget. It has shown this harvest to the degrees. Therefore, Norwegian climate policy, especially with today's government, had been served with a new wide-ranging settlement in the Storting, avoiding a rematch after a rematch in the budget by budget. Because we have heard the tedious hearing of the Minister for Climate and Environment say that the government will strengthen the climate agreement. It's empty words, no content. The climate agreement is unchanged, and it seems that the government refuses to come to Stortinget and invite you to a new one. If Norway is to achieve its objectives — in climate or in other areas — we need to build on a society with small differences and great opportunities. We need to focus on the future, whether it be our energy resources, nature, the environment or the climate. This budget harvest has given me little reason to believe that these values can be achieved by a government that represents and practices the ultimate point of policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e364	Should the representative make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e367	I would love to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e372	The representative of Terje Aasland then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e377	Financial spokespersons in the Workers' Party, Marianne Marthinsen, opened this summer to allow Norway to leave the last oil barrels in the matured field. Marthinsen stated to E24 that what should be discussed is this tail production, which has relatively high CO2 emissions. The notification of petroleum, submitted by the Red-Green Government, states that one of the main challenges for achieving the objectives of the petroleum policy is increased extraction from the matured field. The message generally takes a lot of time and space to argue for just increased extraction. My question is therefore: does the representative of Aasland support Marianne Marthinsen's assessment that increased extraction should no longer be an objective of Norwegian petroleum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e389	We have made it very clear – both in the setting we are now dealing with and in all previous documents during this large-scale period – that our kerosene message and the political clarifications we made there are solid. I think it's a strength that we, as a party, have representatives who dare to address issues that it's important to discuss, and as a dare to challenge a little bit. There is no doubt that tail production or late-stage operations are demanding in a climate track. But we are clear that good use of resources is also about making use of the resources in the fields, and that the efficiency of the fields is quite essential in terms of precisely this with good resource management. We stand firm on what we have always said, and that is what comes out in the petroleum message that we presented in our reign.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e396	The Labour Party says that they're concerned with dithering, and that they want differences smoothed out. We also see this in the budget we are now discussing – a smoothing-out when it comes to on-line rentals, where a request for online rentals to be smoothed out without quantifying. We're down to 1.7 cents, but it's still not good enough for the Labour Party. The representative of Aasland says that one has to meet your expectations. These days, we see that this government is able to meet an expectation that was created early for 170-180 power builders, who were promised certificates, and who came under the certification scheme, and who are now not going from the garden to the ground, because this government is busy keeping promises. When it comes to meeting the expectations that a creator creates, the question is, Why did not these qualified who are at risk of walking from the garden to the ground, so that the Storting could keep their promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e406	Now is not the last word to be said in the matter to which the representative Grimstad refers. I guess it's going through Stortinget a round, hopefully, and then we'll have to discuss it when that time comes. A few elements: firstly, I think it is more important to focus on the future than the past, because the future requires us to make important choices, precisely to build up under the opportunities we have for value creation, employment, etc. Then I think it is much more right to focus on the future also in the case of renewable energy. So I could actually ask the question back to the representative Grimstad: why won't you join in and do a technology-neutral write-down within the certificate market? Why won't one be with and prioritize hydropower there, when a binocular enters the future? I understand that the Advance Party chooses to look at the past. So for the balancing of network tariffs: when the Progress Party was in opposition, there was also a significant issue for the Progress Party. That matter was left when they entered the government offices. I think it's a shame that a not able to extract inequalities also on net tariffs in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e415	Despite the Christian People's Party's budgetary agreement with the government parties, there are a lot of comments where we have chosen to be with the Workers' Party, and there is a lot we agree on in this area. However, there is one committee comment that I wonder why the Workers' Party was not involved, and it concerns energy efficiency improvement. Here the majority emphasises the need to set an energy efficiency improvement target and that one meets a case for the Storting to do so. What is the reason why the Workers' Party chose to stand outside of this comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e420	Let me first say that I agree with the representative Eide that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have a very large number of conflicting interests in this budgetary position, and we have shown this in other important matters for our country, not least in the matter of electrification relating to Johan Sverdrup and the height of Utzira. So I think we have a lot of parallel interests. With regard to our relationship with setting an energy efficiency improvement target, we believe that there is a target for energy efficiency improvement and that there is a strong focus on it. But we're going to evaluate, when that case comes to Stortinget, how we're going to deal with it. What we believe is the most important thing now, is that the Storting is well included in how we are going to set our climate targets and climate commitments by 2030, and that we can get as broad an agreement as possible in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e427	The Labour Party and the Center Party agree on many things in the setting, but there is one point I have to challenge the Workers' Party at: In the climate agreement, the Stortinget agreed that forest is an important measure in climate change, both forest protection and forest planting. In this context, a professional group has also investigated the question of forest planting and found that it is possible to implement forest planting measures to a minimum of 50000 deches, and that is in line with the lowest level of ambition in the calculation example of Climate Action 2020. The problem is that if you exclude the West and North Norway north of Saltberg – then there will be no forest planting. For the same group, forest planting areas are largely ‘in areas with little tradition of forestry’, and many of the properties in question are small and located in the West and North Norway. Why will the Workers' Party be involved in cancelling forest planting as climate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e432	I believe that the Workers' Party does not. We have allocated funds for forest planting through our state budget – in fact, the money is at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's budget line. But we believe that forest planting is an important climate action. Then there's the discussion about the West and the area north of Salten, where we also see the challenges of planting Norwegian spruce up against the natural diversity and caring for what's the natural basis there. So there's been the discussion. But we are for forest planting as environmental measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e439	Many of the climate measures we are adopting in the budget now – I have gone through many of them, especially in the car sector: changing the tax on biofuels, charging hybrids, what we have done in the past to remove VAT on leasing also of electric cars, biogas – are proposals that the Left has presented in each budget in recent years, without leading to any kind of change when the Workers' Party put in government. The left is pleased that this is now being implemented. We are also pleased that we have contributed to the environmental profile of the Workers' Party by getting the Workers' Party out of the government offices, and we are a little surprised by this desire now to withdraw the climate agreement in the UK with a broad deal, since we now have to implement the 2020 targets. Then I wonder, what is the Workers' Party, of concrete policies, has changed its position, which one is willing to do about climate action now, which one was not willing to do in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e446	I believe the representative of Elvesuen can clearly see that the Workers' Party is not a static party. We're a dynamic party and we're trying to develop policies, find new areas. It's not like what we did when we were in government is what we're always going to do in the future. We are dedicated to finding the good answers to the difficult questions. I believe that we have managed to do that in a number of areas, not least within climate. I agree that the measures are the most important. But isn't Elvesuen also concerned about, with the background of what he saw being presented by climate action in the government's original government budget, how the government will prioritise this theme in the continuation? Would it not have been a strength for the Norwegian climate profile that one actually got a new deal, where one could also include the only party that is outside the climate agreement but is currently in government, and which I still record denies to recognise that there are anthropogenic climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e453	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e456	Norway is rich in natural resources, competences and capital. We are highly educated, we have good skilled workers, we are capable of changing when we have to, we work hard when required – these are qualities that will come well into the future. The oil sector will become less important in the years ahead. High costs and lower oil prices can challenge the profitability of many projects on Norwegian soil. We are making fewer and fewer large findings and making several small findings far from existing infrastructure. Greater attention to greenhouse gas emissions is also a challenge for the industry to address. Norway currently has the highest carbon price in the world. This means that the petroleum sector is well rusted in a competition that will increasingly take place under green conditions. Norway has all the prerequisites to demonstrate that it is possible to combine high living standards with low emissions. We need to be a driver of an ambitious climate agreement in Paris in 2015, and we need to implement measures that reduce emissions at home and contribute to a green shift out. The government is doing a good job. Never before has any government submitted a more ambitious climate budget, nor does the representative Terje Aasland's party when he was in government – the representative of Aasland's lack of response to Elvestuen's questions illustrates this in a very good way. The budgetary agreement with the cooperation parties further strengthens the green profile. This is a good start to the discussion about the climate change target Norway is expected to have by 2030. We have to aim high. At the same time, we need to ensure that the goals we set at home do not contribute to increasing emissions internationally. The measures we are implementing in Norway must help cut both at home and outside. It argues that the bulk of the measures must come in sectors that are not covered by the EU ETS. A number of offensive actions are under way in the rail sector, public transport in large cities, higher integration of sustainable biofuels into petrol and diesel, new guidelines for eco-friendly urban and urban development, the continuation of benefits for electric cars, cheaper charging hybrids, more competitive conditions for use of biogas in the transport sector, to mention something. In addition, phase-out of fossil oil firing and new technical regulations will reduce emissions in the construction sector. Of course, we should also contribute to the reduction of emissions from the ETS sector, primarily through the development and deployment of new technologies. Industry has already made an excellent effort. Since 1990, emissions have been reduced by 40 p.p. in the same period, production has doubled. It shows that it is possible to decoupling growth and emissions. Now we need to continue and the government's strong commitment to environmental and climate technologies through Enova and Innovation Norway can contribute to this. Enova's support of $1.5 billion. Hydro's new pilot plant at Karmøy is an example of support for technology development that will be good for the environment, but also good for industry's competitiveness. There's already black numbers in green thinking. The future belongs to those who dare to lie ahead, bet and lead in the green shift. Hydro is among the companies that do. There should be a basis for more environmentally friendly energy production in Norway. Norway is heading towards a significant surplus of power in 2020. It must be used to replace fossil energy and can play a greater role as a renewable contribution to EU energy production. The two government concessions to new inter-national connections will enable this to be done. At the same time, there will be scope for further developing energy-intensive activities in Norway based on clean renewable energy, but it requires that industrial emissions can continue to be assessed in a European perspective, such as: our neighbouring country Sweden does. The government is also committed to ensuring that Norway’s share of the renewable investment in the electricity licence market is realised in Norway. It will be important for the creation and creation of new green jobs in District Norway. Therefore, the Right is very pleased that the government is notifying better depreciation rules for wind power, a higher entry point for small power and an extension of the certification system to 2021. Norway is making an important contribution to international climate change work. Through Norfund and SN Power, we are building renewable energy on a large scale in developing countries. This work will be strengthened in 2015. State pension funds abroad have extended their mandate to invest in renewable energy from 30 billion. DKK to 50 billion. kr. In addition, the Minister of Finance has now announced that it will be considered to open up investments in unlisted assets, including investments in renewable energy infrastructure. The green shift will require huge investments in the next few years. There are both opportunities to contribute and opportunities for better returns for the fund. On the radio today, we could also hear the Council of State Sundtoft and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Brende, who promised Norway would contribute 1.6 billion. Norwegian kroner for the next four years to the United Nations Green Fund. Norway shall take part in the responsibility for climate action in developing countries. Knowledge of nature is essential for the conservation of endangered species and habitat types. The cooperation parties therefore prioritise the task of identifying the diversity of species in Norway. Better understanding and knowledge of the species and nature types in Norway can have a high socio-economic value in addition to the self-value in taking care of nature and managing it for the benefit of future generations. Also in the areas of marine exploration, cultural memory protection, open-air and wild-pass management, there is a great deal to be enjoyed in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e488	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e491	The representative, Astrup, was at the beginning of his contribution to pointing out that we have to arm Norway for a future where the oil economy, as it were, is getting less of a part of society. I agree. It is a demanding task, a great task, and there is no doubt – I think – that the knowledge associated with the oil economy will play a crucial role for our future. This is because I would like to ask the question: why is the proposal that we are promoting not included in the right, where we are asking the government to review the situation of the Norwegian supplier industry, and where the aim is just to explain how Norwegian industrial competence can be further developed on the basis of the activity of the socket, including how the competence of the Norwegian supplier industry can contribute in other sectors? Would it not, for a party like the Right, be natural for such an approach to the future, by looking at the possibility of the knowledge that lies there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e499	I fully agree with the representative of Aasland that there are great opportunities in the knowledge and competence of the offshore industry, and that is a clear transfer value to other sectors. It is also the case that the mainland industry needs good skilled workers. There are many good professionals in the oil and gas industries, and we see, fortunately, that many of those who have now lost their jobs in the oil and gas industries find work relatively quickly. It's positive. Then we must help to strengthen the competitiveness of the mainland industry through good framework conditions, through support schemes and incentive schemes, as we do, through Innovation Norway, through Enova and in a number of other areas. I fully agree that the government must, of course, keep an eye on the situation and developments in the supplier industry and ensure that we have good measures that we can take if the situation is to deteriorate further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e506	We hear repeatedly the claim that many find work soon afterwards, so there is no problem anymore. But it is also a fact that many do not find a job, and there should be cause for concern. One of the elements that is expressed as having a major need to address is the rules of leave. It's not up to our committee to deal with, but it's at least one part of it. The second is what we're doing now in a low economic cycle. We know that the activity will rise again. In some years the level of investment will again be high, not least as a result of investment decisions related to Johan Sverdrup, which are due to occur. How, then, should one avoid having a ‘dip’ dehulling competence in a low economic cycle time so as to meet again the higher activity coming? This proposal would have taken care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e513	I think it is important that we, as politicians, contribute with predictable and good framework conditions for the petroleum sector. It is clear that there is some party that has now contributed to creating some uncertainty about those framework conditions, and thus greater uncertainty about the future in the oil and gas sector, since it is the Workers' Party and their supporting parties, for example. SV. There is no doubt that in a situation where the Workers' Party and the SV will cooperate, the framework conditions for the oil and gas sector will be further weakened. This could mean that many people will lose their jobs, not least in the West and in the supplier industry. I believe that the representative of Terje Aasland should be more concerned about what his cooperation parties think about these issues than what the Right believes about these issues. We are committed to having good and predictable framework conditions; we are committed to contributing to the success of the supplier industry. Let me remind you that the level of investment will still be very high in the years that come, even though it will be somewhat lower than it was last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e518	There is a lot to enjoy in this budget, said the representative Astrup. There was a rather strange debate after the presentation of the government budget. It was not very warmly received from the environmental movement. Nor was it very warmly received from the cooperation partners in Stortinget, the Left and Christian People's Party. The leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, was very upset with the environmental and energy profile of this budget. Enova was not increased, there was great ambiguity about the depreciation of wind power, and forest protection had been significantly reduced. In addition, it also turns out that you have financed this in a slightly peculial way, one might say – at least one way that the Right parliamentary leader says is realistic budgeting, but, as the Ministry of Environment says, unrealistic budgeting is when one is less than 300 million. kr from the purchase of allowances. But my question is simply: when the budget was corrected by the Left and Christian People's Party, what pleased the representative Astrup the most?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e525	I fully agree with the representative Arnstad that it was a lot to enjoy in the state budget – or that might not be exactly what she said, but that is at least what I mean. I had an exchange of lines with the representative Skei Grande during the throne debate and reviewed what we knew would come into the state budget, and what had already come from the government – point by point. When I asked her the question: If you agree that this represents a change of pace compared to the previous government, the feedback was very clear – the answer was yes. So it's true that the Left wasn't satisfied with the state budget, but they were much more satisfied with the state budget from this government than they were with the state budgets from the previous government. As I said, this is the most ambitious climate budget that any government has ever presented in Norway. I believe that there is reason to rejoice, because it represents a new course for Norway in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e530	I have a very simple but clarifying question. The representative referred to a look-up today that the government has doubled the appropriations for the Green Climate Fund, but it's probably not really the government that has doubled the green Norwegian contribution to the Green Climate Fund, it's actually the result of the budget agreement with the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government parties. Does the representative agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e535	I agree. It is true that in the cooperation agreement, which is of course a hundred percent behind, the allocation of the UN Green Climate Fund increased from 200 million. NOK 400 million. kr. What I believe the government has done today is to state that this is going to apply in the next four years, so it's going to be 1.6 billion. kr. That's very good. This shows that Norway is taking part in the responsibility for cutting emissions in developing countries. It also shows that the cooperation between the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party in the climate and the environment is strong, is good, yields results and has already led to a new course in climate policy that is all reason to rejoice with the nation of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e540	The representative Astrup made a little visit saying that we want to cut a little bit of oil exploration and that in our alternative budget, and that's right, because SV thinks that at some point we have to start spending more money researching renewable energy and getting on with the green shift that we're all about now. So my question to Astrup is, when do they think in the Right that one should start cutting a little bit of government funding for seismic and oil exploration?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e545	I believe that as long as we are engaged in petroleum activities in Norway, we should also be researching petroleum activities in Norway. It is about the fact that as long as there is a broad political consensus that we should have a large oil and gas industry in Norway – and it will continue for many decades to come, which is also what SV said when they presented Report. St. 28 for 2010–2011 entitled An industry for the future – about petroleum activities – we should also have knowledge of the resources that we are to manage in a sustainable and as environmentally friendly way as possible. Then I'm concerned that we need to get more legs on, we need to make sure that the mainland industry gets more competitiveness, and that's what we're doing. And we have to make sure that the mainland industry can also contribute with lower emissions, as we do through Enova and Innovation Norway. In sum, this is not about us starting to have a run-down of the oil sector, but we have to have other legs to stand on and use the yield from the petroleum fortune to get to the green shifted also here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e553	During the financial debate at the beginning of this week, we got to the right that this year's budget is the best climate budget ever, and this was underlined by more people. We're increasing the use of biofuels in road traffic, hybrid cars are getting significantly cheaper, and we're still betting on pure electric cars. In addition, we strongly strengthen the Energy Fund. The blue-blue government and the partners also propose to improve the framework for the development and production of green energy through, among others. propose more favourable depreciation rules for wind power plants and higher base rate entry points for small power plants. This will lead to more commitment to renewable energy, and it is very enjoyable. But even more happily, this government is correcting the injustice that became 170 to 180 small power owners in part by denying them access to the certificate market in spite of clear promises. Very many of these builders are in danger of losing their homes and gardens because a red-green plural on the Stortinget throughout the entire period did not keep their promises clear. The wrong had to be a blue-blue government to fix, and it got me big. Furthermore, this government raises the possibility of a power exchange with Germany and the United Kingdom through the creation of two new extraterrestrials that could make better use of the power systems and contribute to increased value creation. These cables are, in some ways, important for Norway to be successful in increasing renewable energy production. This government has also announced proposals for introducing tax deductions for additional household measures. Until such a system is in place, the government is proposing to make an increment scheme into a legal system, which is very positive. In some cases, this government is focusing on concrete measures, while the red-greens are most concerned about clarifying the seriousness and demanding measures — and especially now, after they are out of government offices. This autumn we have also been shown the seriousness of flooding and race, where in several media, including television, our strong focus has been on the Man in Rauma in More and Romesdal. Åknes/Tafjord Standød IKS is an intermunicipal company responsible for mountaineering. The company is located in the municipality of Stranda and is owned by the municipalities of Stranda, Norddal, Rauma, Stordal, Ørskog, Sykkylven and Ålesund and also by the municipality of More and Romesdal. Today the company has operational surveillance of the areas Åknes in Stranda kommune, Hegguraksla in Norddal kommune and – as a denominator – Mannen in Rauma kommune. This is very topical, and we know that these days there will also be a so-called disaster film especially about Åknes. Therefore, it is important that such a warning is in place, so that those who live in the municipality should feel the security they need for further activity, even within businesses that become strongly involved in this race. Yesterday I had the pleasure of attending the annual December conference in Kristiansund. Also there we met with great confidence that this government will ensure stable framework conditions and light up new prospective search areas. That insurance also gave the state councils the satisfaction of the 250 000 jobs this represents across the country, plus the significant financial contribution to our welfare society that the petroleum sector is responsible for. Then I'm more insecure on that line the new leader of the Working Party, Jonas Gahr Støre, represents, based on his statements, that much of the petroleum resources must be left in the ground. This creates unrest and threatens an industry in conversion, and is very damaging. It is as harmful as the New Year's Eve to the former leader of the Workers' Party Jens Stoltenberg where he concluded that the time for large power expansion was over. The damage was very damaging, especially for recruitment. But, as many people here have said, it is very much to be missed in the submitted state budget. I am very happy to hear from one of the parties in the government, who, together with the cooperation party, can present this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e576	We're going to leave behind a year when the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has presented its fifth main report. It is clear that there is no longer any doubt as to whether climate change is man-made and that the consequences are more serious than we have previously believed. This now unites the whole world, with the exception of some representatives of our own government. The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen said earlier this year that the United Nations Climate Panel was driving quasi-scientific research, and put great questions at their fingertips. What is the view of the Progress Party on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change? And can the representative Grimstad without reservation say that the climate change we see is a result of human activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e583	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says it's 95 pst.-100 pst. that man-made activities are involved and affect the climate. When it comes to the Progress Party and the attitude of the Progress Party to the climate and the climate debates, we are told that we deny it. It's a truth with big modifications. The Progress Party adopted at its national meeting a clear pre-war attitude, which we operate after. In cooperation with the parties that are present today and present a state budget, we have once presented the most important and best climate budget. As a representative of the Progress Party, I can do that to stress that I am very pleased. They couldn't do the red-greens through their period, and today they struggled to blackmail futures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e592	I notice that the representative Grimstad puts his trust in the last 5 percent of doubt. If the representative Grimstad had come to a doctor who said he was 95 pst. Probably had cancer, I think the representative Grimstad had let himself be treated on that basis. Once again, my question to the representative Grimstad: Can the Progress Party take on without reservation the seriousness of the UN Climate Panel warning the world about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e599	I clarified the levels of security from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – and was careful about it. I have no problem saying that I am proud to be behind the budget that we are presenting today, and that is the strongest climate action ever – unlike the red-green clover over eight years. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e604	I can only say that I think it is nice that the Progress Party is here today and proud of what they think is a good climate budget, because it means that the world is moving a little ahead, and that means that the Progress Party has gone from being skeptical to climate policy that will not participate in the climate agreement to being those who market the government's climate budget. That's good, and it kind of shows that the world is moving forward. Then the question – also to the Progress Party – is about forest, because there have been formulations that make it impossible to use the forest as a climate action. There will be an increase in forest protection, but it will not be possible to carry out the forest planting that you want, and which is recommended professionally by the Environment Directorate and the Directorate-General for Agriculture in common – this is because of the formulations that are about excluding the West and North Norway north of the Salt Mountain. If you don't allow to plant forest there, there won't be any forest planting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e611	A number of measures have been taken on the climate side, and forest is also important, I can agree with the representative Arnstad in. But this is the first of a series of budgets, so we'll see what the future will give. I have to say that I am more pleased with the organization that this government is providing when it owes the renewable component and it increases its output there. In addition, we were able to correct the promise that the Centerpartiet also made when it came to these 170-180 power plant builders, who failed in clear promises – especially from the Centerpartiet – did not get what they were promised. We did it on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e616	- Representative Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e619	I didn't ask for the word, but I can keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e624	I thought you asked for two.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e627	Firstly, I am pleased with what is now being done for the small power owners who were not included in the green certification system. There is still a lot of uncertainty about how they will be dealt with in the licence market in the future, and we will come back to that in the debate as well. But the representative Grimstad cannot completely escape climate policy and forest in that context. He quickly went to energy and the themes with which he feels well, but he has to answer whether it is such that you can risk not getting any forest planting with what the Progress Party has been doing in writing in this setting. The part of the progress that has been involved in writing in the setting will put an effective block on what has been professionally recommended in the field of forest and forest planting. Gran takes up two to three times as much carbon as the birch forest does. If you're going to sort of just look at the black forest in the West and North Norway north of Salten, there's not so many areas to plant forest in. What will the Progress Party do in the future to ensure forest planting in line with professional advice?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e633	As I said, this government is putting forward a budget with several measures, and forest will probably be one of those measures forward. It didn't happen this time. In return, as we have said before, we are investing in the rainforest. It's not domestic, but it's foreign. We are investing in Brazil and Indonesia, and these are very important investments to capture CO2. We're still behind that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e643	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e646	The UN Climate Change Report has shown us that climate change is not happening in the distant future. They're happening now. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the climate and environmental measures in the budget. We have done so, both through the agreement in the financial position and through the work of this committee. Tax policy is a suitable tool for changing consumer behaviour and influencing people’s attitudes. It should be used to move society in an environmentally friendly direction. Norway has a high potential for improvement in order to increase environmental taxes on emissions. As you know, this is dealt with in another committee, but there is still reason to mention it here, as this is a very central and important part of climate and environmental policy. Negotiations have adopted important re-priorities in the tax regime that will provide a greener tax system. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the allocation to floods and anti-spare measures has increased by 20 million. kr. The proposed allocation in the state budget for flood and bridging covers only a fraction of the need for monitoring the flood and gliding hazards in the municipalities. The identification of flood and discard hazard zones shall contribute to the generation of knowledge both on the importance of deployment of measures in areas already in use and on the importance of the non-use of vulnerable areas. Another theme: We in the Christian People's Party agree to include Transnova in Enova. The main objective of Transnova is to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector in Norway. However, we were critical of the fact that there was no funding involved, but that the tasks were to be resolved within Enova's budget. Transnova has a very central task in particular. electric car bet. That is why we are pleased that Enova's budget has now increased, precisely to compensate for the inclusion of Transnova. So to a system that I've been especially concerned with, that's transfer tariffs. The scheme is supposed to give less price differences on electricity around the country, so that one doesn't pay much more if one lives far away from the population center. The government has cut this scheme. There are a few who will have a share in it, if not the appropriations had been increased. That's why we're happy that the appropriation was increased by 20 million. NOK, so that eight more network companies are included. Outdoor activities are important both for health and for well-being. We believe that the outdoor organisations do an invaluable job in getting more people to use nature. I am pleased that we have increased the operating support for these through our conciliation. In addition, priority is given to the Year of Outdoor Life, the Service of the Archipelago, measures for disabled persons and measures in State-secured open-air areas. Hunting and fishing are also an important part of the joy of outdoor life. Unfortunately, the Villaks population is threatened in many salmon rivers around the country, and many salmon populations have unfortunately already been lost. A number of anthropogenic influences pose a threat to individual salmon populations. Famous farmed fish and salmonids are considered to be the most serious threats to the wild species. That is why we are very pleased that important grips are now being taken on the wild axis. We are starting to build a salmon barrier in Driva, and we are also securing funding in the future. The purpose is to eradicate the salmon parasite from the important salmon eel. The resources of liming are also increasing, and the industry is very concerned. Now, at the end of the year's budgetary work, there is reason to thank the partners for a good job. I want to thank the committee. I think we have worked well, and we have further developed the budgetary agreement that the four parties agreed on in the financial situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e668	The Christian People's Party is close to the Workers' Party in both energy and climate policy, and several places in the stand stand the Christian People's Party together with the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Environmental Party, among others. on compensation for municipalities affected by natural damage, on the visibility of the impact of emissions in each ministry’s budget proposals and on the ability of solar cells to make a valuable contribution to renewable energy solutions in Norway. It is also tempting to mention that, in the Workers' Party's alternative budget, we are proposing to increase the transfer to net tariffs by 30 million. kr. Does the representative of the Christian People's Party agree with me that if they had supported another majority on the Stortinget, the Christian People's Party would have had an impact on many of the important environmental and climate issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e675	I think we could have had a good cooperation with the Workers' Party, I'm not in doubt about that. But now we're in a different collaboration, and I'm very happy with what we've done in the cooperation that we're in now. I don't need to say anything but that once we've reinforced the climate agreement, as we've done through this budget, the Christian People's Party is very pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e680	After the government presented its draft budget, the criticism of the Christian People's Party and the Left, especially in the climate field, was hailed. From the Christian People's Party it was said that it was now the task of the Left and Christian People's Party to clean up after the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment in order to achieve an ambitious climate policy for the civil cooperation project – quote: "It is not a good way to treat their friends." What does Andersen Eide think about being a supporting party to a government where no one is so concerned about the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e687	I don't want to characterize the current government as not being concerned with the climate. We have presented our alternative budget, and it shows our commitment to climate change. Of course, when you're working together, you have to give, and you have to take. You have to be willing to accept compromise, and we have done that, and we are satisfied with the result we have come up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e692	I am not in doubt about the good intentions of the Christian People's Party in climate and environmental policy, so I do not know how happy the representative of the Christian People's Party was for the workers' party representative Ljunggren's finding that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party are close in oil policy. We have heard the Labour Party representative Aasland state that the party is firmly committed to the oil notification, which is the basis of the government's policy today, which is still an expansionary oil and gas policy, with large investments and a long-term perspective for Norwegian oil activities. Can the representative explain in what way the Christian People's Party believes that oil and gas policy, of which the Christian People's Party is part, contributes to a long-term climate solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e699	What was important for the Christian People's Party when we signed the cooperation agreement with the Right and the Advance Party was to strengthen the climate agreement. We were concerned about protecting vulnerable areas: Lofoten, Vesterålen, Senja, the ice edge. There were many areas that we thought it was important to protect. Another thing is that we're concerned that in terms of the production that's happening in the North Sea, we're going to extract oil from the fields that's already going on. It's an important point for the Christian People's Party that we're going to lay the foundation for the oil policy in the concession rounds, and take it from there. So we're going to make sure that the most oil is extracted where the wells are already today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e706	To clarify the question, is there anything in the Christian People's Party's oil policy that limits the total extraction of hydrocarbons on Norwegian soil? One thing is not to pick up hydrocarbons in vulnerable areas — that’s good and good — but it can be compensated by extracting hydrocarbons elsewhere. As I read the Christian People's Party's policy, that's exactly what it's all about: no to drilling in vulnerable areas, but yes to the more drilling otherwise. How does that help the climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e712	As I have said, we are also concerned about taking care of the 250 000 jobs that are in the oil industry. We're not a no party in terms of extracting oil. Therefore, the most important thing for us has been to protect the vulnerable areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e717	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e720	The attitude shows that there is a broad majority in Stortinget who want stability and long-termity in the petroleum industry. The same applies to the role of the Oil Directorate as resource manager and to the role of Petoro as an active partner in the licences on Norwegian base. The broad majority, the broad consensus in this area, is important for the oil industry, but perhaps equally important for the country's largest mainland industry, the supplier industry. It could also be important at the time we're in front of us, which can be more worrying than before. It also shows that there is a broad majority of high ambitions for the development of renewable energy and high expectations for such an energy to play a role, both in the Norwegian climate accounts, in the export of power, in electrification and in industrial development. Then we might disagree on both the instruments and the dosage, but the ambitions to expand a lot of renewable energy are common. Climate and environmental policies affect almost all sectors and depend on efforts in a number of areas. If we are to achieve something, it must be seen in conjunction with political efforts other than those relating to the department. That doesn't mean that the budget we are dealing with today is immaterial, that just means that the budgets are part of the whole that is to balance the direction of growth and long-term management. In its alternative budget, the Centre Party has chosen to give priority to key areas of climate and environment. This applies not least to Enova. This also applies to the need to focus on the role of forests in climate policy, through both forest protection, care and forest planting. It was surprising that the government chose to reduce these bets the way it did. The Minister of Energy will probably say that Enova was given increased appropriations, but the skin is deceiving – as it was also thoroughly documented in the Committee’s hearings. When Transnova is to be included in Enova's work without the money being included, and when Enova is to administer a support scheme for households, it is said that the appropriations for Enova will not be sufficient. More will be required to enable Enova to carry out its task of greening energy consumption and developing energy technologies. Without increased funds, work on manufacturing and industry and Transnova's important work on charging infrastructure are likely to be harmful. One of the most important aspects of the climate agreement concerns the role of forests in reducing climate emissions. Forest binds carbon. Norway has used funds for the conservation of rainforests for many years, but carbon capture through active forest management is equally important in Norway. Therefore, the surprise was great when the government proposed large cuts in forest protection, forest management and a puzzled allocation for forest planting. However, in this area too, the right parties were slowed by the Left and Christian People's Party. But it remains to be seen whether the majority in the hall has really taken over the context of forest management. With the comments made by a majority in the field of forest planting, there will be no forest planting. Here is the narrow nature protection that has won over climate needs. The central party also chooses to invest in aquatic environmental measures, wild species and liming in its budget. We propose to increase the allocations to non-governmental organisations, to environmental measures in municipalities and to outdoors. In the case of cultural memory protection, the Centre Party proposes a solid lift. Cultural heritage plays an important role both for individuals and for the community. It is positive that the government will invest more in the fire protection of cultural memories, but it is sad that it will be done at the expense of other cultural memory measures. The Central Party therefore proposes an increase in the resources for cultural memories of more than 80 million. kr and a system of VAT compensation for private owners of peaced cultural memories equal to 50 million. kr. Two other important bets in the Central Party budget option are better flood protection and increased subsidies for balancing electricity prices. The last plan is unfortunately on liquidation. One cannot say after two years of government proposing to reduce the subsidy from 120 million. NOK 40 million. kr. It will mean more expensive rentals for those who live in areas where, due to natural conditions, there are higher costs, including: for maintenance and repairs. There is also reason to mention the depreciation of wind power, which should contribute to improving the competitiveness of Norwegian power to the certificate market. What's going to happen to this arrangement? A number of questions will remain unanswered after today’s treatment. Would ESA treat this as a matter of urgency? Can a person expect formal studies to be opened or not? What should be the scope of the plan? These uncertainties should be rapidly eliminated. If not, this scheme will not contribute to faster decisions by the actors, but it will contribute to continued high uncertainty regarding the development decisions relating to the certificate market. On behalf of the Central Party, I address the proposals No. 16-20 in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e751	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e756	The Central Party uses a lot of space for predators in its comments, and the Ministry of Climate and Environment itself states that until November 12, 2014, there is a 19 pst drop. – or 400 sheep owners – who have applied for compensation in relation to the same time last year. The total number of sheep and lambs requested has fallen by about 10 600 on a national basis: 20 pst. reduction compared to the previous grazing season. The decline in detected losses is even higher. There it is 26 pst. decrease in sheep and 37 pst. on tamrein. The right is well pleased with the government and the pace change the government adds to predatory policy. Then I come to my question: Is the Center Party satisfied with the reduction in the loss of sheep and domestic animals on the outing leg that we've seen this year, and that change in pace we're now seeing with the new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e763	There's been a drop in loss, and that's good. The problem is that there are greater losses in priority pastures than there have been in the past, and the fact that predators are too small in priority pastures is thought to be contrary to the predatory game agreement. I think one of the reasons for loss reduction is that many of those who live in the predatory zones have simply ended up with sheep and other domestic animals since then, because the losses in previous years have been so large. It could also be a little bit related to the reduced number of losses. The centre party cannot see that there has been any change of pace at all in the game management. We appreciate that the government now seems to want to follow up the proposals of the Center Party they voted for in ours, on better and more efficient withdrawals of yours. That's good. Here it looks like the government is copying the proposals that the Center Party has promoted in ours, and that's good, that's important. But there is no change of pace in the game management, on the contrary. Now we're seeing a situation where we set quotas, throw blues in people's eyes about what allowances are to be taken, and then they almost don't take predators out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e770	The world has never been such that it's easy to make everyone a team, but we feel that there are 400 fewer sheep owners who have applied for compensation in relation to last year, 10,600 animals on a national basis. Obviously, that's not enough. However, we also experience that the Council of State and the Ministry decided not to appeal against the Krokann judgment, and that the Environment Directorate will re-assess 77 replacement cases that have been applied for. Is the representative Arnstad satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e777	I said well that I think it's good that the losses go down, but I think it might be a cause for concern. I am also concerned that there will be increased losses in what the predatory game agreement calls priority pastures, because there really shouldn't be a very high level of loss. I think, among other things. in the areas of Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane. In the case of the Krokann judgment: Yes, I think that is good, but I believe the government was obliged to do so. It should only be lacking when the Supreme Court has made a decision that is principleal, which concerns one driver, but which also affects many other drivers, that not that judgment was also assessed in relation to the others who have the exact same issue. The centre party would like us to have a change of pace in predatory game policy, and we hope that, in the future, the government will be both more responsive and more open to dialogue with the centre party on these issues, because then we can also contribute to a majority in the Grand Duchy for sensible changes in predatory game policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e786	Through the budget agreement, the Christian People's Party has put in place $12 million. NOK 15 million in total. kr for forest planting. We believe this can be a good climate action. At the same time, we know that forest planting has its problematic history, including: have had negative effects on the planting of citadel, particularly in the West. In this note, most parties express a certain skepticism about the planting of Norwegian spruce in the West and north of the Salt Mountains. The center party is the only party that doesn't say anything about that. Does the Central Party believe that there is no reason whatsoever to be the leader was in terms of planting Norwegian spruce in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e795	We believe that one should follow the technical recommendations of the expert group of the Environment Directorate and the Directorate for Agriculture, which has just made a recommendation on forest planting. Their recommendation is that one can plant 50,000 decare forests, but this must happen, among other things. in the West and North Norway, and they also say that spruce will bind two to three times as much carbon as the black forest will do. That means that if you're going to use forest planting as part of a climate action, you can't exclude the West and North Norway, because if you do, there won't be any forest planting. Then we don't necessarily talk about sitkagran. I understand that many in this Chamber are unsure about it, but the problem is that the majority also include Norwegian spruce in the critical notes that these come with. It says – I must say, frankly – in stark contrast to what the Christian People's Party's nutritionist spokeswoman, Line Henriette Hemdal, has said in terms of the use of forests in climate and forest as part of a total bioeconomy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e801	Forest and landscape management are important for carbon binding, and climate challenges are enormous. At the same time, the world has a similar challenge in maintaining biodiversity. Only in Norway there are 2400 species that are red-listed species, as well as the importance of maintaining a cultural landscape. Then my question is: does the representative Arnstad see no contrast between forest planting, the maintenance of biodiversity and the maintenance of cultural landscapes? Does the representative Arnstad disagree with the need to investigate this further both in the West and in the North of the Salt?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e806	Obviously, I see those challenges. It is precisely the challenges that this peer review by the Environment Directorate and the Directorate for Agriculture addresses. There are just these balances between the area that can be planted, the area that has such high conservation values that they should not be planted, and the cultural landscape, through which that group was commissioned after the climate agreement. Now they have delivered their report, and they make a clear professional recommendation. There is a technical recommendation that almost none of the parties here in the hall are willing to look at seriously once, and it seems to me to be most remarkable when one takes into account that it was the Stortinge Sea that ordered a professional investigation related to the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e811	If we add oil policy and scooter policy and predatory policy and lead hails, there are many areas where the Greens have common interests and where the Greens think the Greens show good rates on the environmental and climate front. One of the interesting areas is the development of green industries, including forestry. Here there is a basis for broad alliances that can bring about significant changes in the Norwegian society, but one of the obstacles is the Center Party's spinal corded aggression against protection. Now it's 2.6 pst. by Norwegian productive forest protection, and the need to halt biodiversity loss is about 10 pst. Everyone agrees that the remaining 90–97 pst. the forest shall be operated. Can Arnstad explain why it is so important to maintain conflict within this potential alliance on the protection of these few percentages, as there is such a wide professional consensus that it should be protected?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e816	I do not fully understand the prosecutor's accusations against the Central Party on that point. In our budget option, we have proposed to increase the funds for forest protection by 220 million. kr. We were deeply dissatisfied with the decline in forest protection that this government proposed. We believe that the scheme that is above the Ministry of the Environment budget has worked very well. It has worked well because one has tried to reduce conflicts and facilitate the widest possible degree of voluntary protection, as well as an active means of protecting the land of Statskog and the Land of the Information Society Fund. It's positive, and it's a work that has to go on. Otherwise, I must say that I have also noticed that we agree with the Greens in some areas, and have seen examples of the Greens having agreed with the Greens on important aspects of agricultural policy and soil protection. I would simply like to apologise for not being in favour of a comment by the Greens on mountain reefs today. That is the only comment in this setting that I have missed, and which I believe I should have been in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e823	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e826	I'm going to join the committee board first of all for a good cooperation in the committee, and especially with our secretary, from us in the SV environmental fraction. It has been a demanding interview, and we have received good help as a first trip. Yesterday after the transport debate I sat and read a little in the newspapers for a little while. There I see: ‘Take the oil platforms out of their ears and listen to Africa! Those who actually take responsibility during climate negotiations are those who live south of the welfare state’. This wrote Tale Hammerø Ellingvåg from Nature and Youth in the Evening Post. She is a youth delegate at the Lima climate summit, where some of us will also meet in the next week. The basic cause of climate change is fossil energy consumption. Prior to this year’s climate negotiations in Lima, a group of African countries has proposed to talk about renewable energy schemes and how to make a concrete, just global transition to a green society as part of the negotiations. ‘It is not so nice that it is the African countries that propose this. The climate change we've caused already destroys millions of people's lives, and that we have to take responsibility for doing something about this while cutting emissions. [[...]] We say we're a climate nation. It's time we saw energy consumption and climate as one thing, took the oil platforms out of our ears and started listening to the African countries,' wrote the Voice. Norway's largest membership organisation, the Church, has recently issued an opinion from the Inter-Church Council. That's where it says we are. ‘To strengthen Norway’s climate action. As a rich oil nation, Norway has a particular responsibility to reduce global climate change. Our climate policy contribution should reflect a fair burden-sharing based on our economic capacity and historical responsibility. Norway must cut its emissions by at least 50 per cent by 2030. And we need to increase our contribution to climate finance in the coming years. [[...]] Inter-church advice will ask the Norwegian authorities to increase climate finance in the future. This increase must be in addition to the aid budget. It is a good start to Norway’s recently announced contribution to the Green Climate Fund’, which we will adopt today. Church further says that we ‘needs politicians who dare to take courageous action to facilitate a renewable initiative and the phasing out of our use of fossil energy.’ Earlier this week, at the invitation of the SV Deposit Group, we received information from five Norwegian researchers on how much greenhouse gases it is reasonable and fair that Norway is taking responsibility for cutting forward by 2030. The main conclusion is that Norway should take responsibility for significantly larger emissions up to 2030 than what we are doing today. Especially if we take into account the principle of capacity, Norway gets climate responsibility in a completely different size than we have been discussing in the Norwegian climate debate until now, says Steffen Kallbecken from CICERO at the presentation. I would recommend that report. Buildings today stand for nearly 40 pst. by the use of energy in our society. To combat climate change, it is important that far more buildings in the world go from being large consumers of energy to becoming energy producers. I've long believed that solar cells are an important and promising climate solution for the world, but not so current for Norway, perhaps, because here it's so dark in winter. But now both the pilot project and the new research results show that large parts of Norway are better suited for producing solar energy. Researchers from Norway's environmental and bioscientific universities at Ås can tell that solar radiation to many places in Norway is good, about 20 pst. better than expected and as good as e.g. in Germany. These promising findings are the background for SV thinking we have to think about solar cells in Norwegian climate and energy policy. That is why we ask the parties in this Chamber to support the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to consider including solar cells in Enova’s rights-based support scheme for energy measures in households.’ I'm delivering this proposal here. I see today, like other Fridays, that grandparent's climate action is outside here as they tend. I want to refer to SV's alternative budget, where we accept the public engagement that is in climate and environmental matters, and allow more money for it, which I'll come back to in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e875	The representative of Ingunn Gjerstad has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e880	I will first begin by boasting of SV for Meld. St. 28 for 2010–2011 An industry for the future — the petroleum industry, which came in 2011 and which SV participated in. Personally, I think the message is very good, and I must agree with what was said in the presentation: ‘The government wants to facilitate a conscious effort to maintain output from the industry at a very high level for generations to come.’ I also want to boast of SV for the many allocations of new exploration areas for the oil industry that came. Much thanks to the four TFO records that were placed under the red-green government, we now have a safe, predictable and high level of production on a Norwegian base. The opening of the Barents Sea has also been very important. The right will help to maintain the level of activity. Maximum consensus and predictability of the industry are important in the future. Therefore, my question becomes SV: What part of the oil policy that was pursued from 2005 to 2013 is most satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e892	I thank you for the question. I would like to say that after we went out of government, there have been many more reports on how fast this negative development is going. This is why SV has a tempo selection to look at how one can move forward, and whether we can achieve the climate measure with the oil policy we adopted when we were in government. I am in favour of the message and the policy we led in the government, and I am very pleased that we have strong trade unions in the sector, which are also occasionally involved in saying that it is going a little too fast, and that it is going to be safe when one has an oil policy where we pump up quite a lot of petroleum.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e901	Solar cells are important and are likely to become much more important in the future. There's no doubt about it. However, SV states in a note in the preamble that ‘Norway is the country in Europe that has the most developed market for solar photovoltaic solutions, the highest prices and the lowest prevalence.’ [[...]] Is this description of reality primarily a criticism of today's government, or is it a self-criticism of the eight years before, when SV was in the Ministry of Climate and Environment and had the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e908	As I said in my post, it is only now that there are some reports that show that Norway is quite good for solar cells. It is not particularly important for us to criticise the sitting government for not having done enough in this field. Maybe we can take self-criticism because we couldn't do enough in this field while we were in government. What is important for me and SV now is that we actually take this into account and look at how we can find schemes that allow more people to use this. In one-city homes, barges, businesses and commercial properties, we believe that there is a very large potential for using renewable energy sources. So we hope that also the Progress Party, the Right Party and the other Party will see the value of this and be with us on this forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e916	The strengthening of the system of transfer tariffs is something that the Christian People's Party has been engaged in in its alternative budget, and we are happy to strengthen the allocations by 20 million. kr in the budget agreement. SV has chosen not to give priority to this in its alternative budget. Nevertheless, the party is involved in a proposal to ask the government to strengthen the arrangement. The discussion in this case focuses on what is the balance point of the level of funding, to ensure, on the one hand, equal electricity prices wherever you live, and, on the other hand, to ensure rational network structure and robust network carriers. What does SV think is the correct level of funding for the transmission tariffs scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e925	I think I have to tell the representative Andersen Eide that I have to come back with a specific answer to that question, because right now I cannot answer that question as well as I would like.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e930	The Socialist Left Party was parties to a government that pointed out the climate challenges over all the eight years they put in position. But then we see today that there had to be another choice, and SV actually had to leave the government offices before one was able to submit a climate budget that was characterised as a change of pace and the climate budget of the times. How does SV feel when one feels that one has a greater impact on the opposition than then one put in the position, on a theme of which SV is very concerned, and which was a theme in more or less whole numbers to the representative Gjerstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e935	As the representative is probably aware, it is not such in a government cooperation that when one is the smallest party, one is able to complete its entire party program. It wasn't like that for SV either, but we are still proud of the measures we got. We probably have a slightly different idea of whether this is the environmental budget of the time or not, just like yesterday, when we talked about the transport budget. So I think my feeling about being in opposition now and standing for SV's policy is that we can now express our core points of view all the time, while we in government may have to be on some compromise, but we're still proud of what we got.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e940	There is really no reason to doubt SV's involvement in either climate or environmental policy. As mentioned here, there have been very serious reports in the last few years, while these reports have been serious for a very long time. There are probably several people here who have been concerned with the greenhouse effect and its effects from back to the mid 1980s. When Kåre Willoch was Prime Minister, this was a topic that should have been taken very seriously at the time. So this is nothing new. But my question is: Now SV has done what you could – and I believe it – in government for eight years, but still it is doubtful that the last year has climate dominated the debate in Norway, and there is also a list of measures that are much longer than it was in the period of the previous government. Does the representative agree that we now have a change of pace when it comes to implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e947	I would like to pay tribute to the representative Elvesuen for the budgetary negotiations that have taken place since the budget was presented in the fall. There is no doubt that with the help of the Left and Christian People's Party, this budget has become better than it was. So a change of pace I'm not sure if I agree that it is, but I think it has become a better budget. And I'm glad to be in the debates ahead. We will have many major issues in the Energy and Environment Committee, based on proposals that will further escalate the developments we are currently experiencing. So maybe it can be a proper pace change to next year!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e952	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e955	The energy sector budget shows the main course of both the Norwegian economy and business and climate policy. In the energy sector budget, we see to what extent the green shift in Norway is rhetorical or real policy, and we see the reality of Norwegian climate policy. The 2015 budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy tells us that most of it is the same as before. It is made by the Progress Party, but could as well have been made by the Center Party, the Labour Party or the Christian People's Party. It does not differ one degree from the Bible of Norwegian energy and climate policy, Meld. St. 28 for 2010–2011, the notification of petroleum. Norway’s most important field of activity remains the largest possible range of oil and gas activities, and it continues to permeate all parts of Norwegian policy. The small budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment has been used to show the priority they give to pollution control and green blocks in the plan bureaucrat, and what we can devote to cultural memories, salmon and natural aesthetics. However, at a time when Norway needs to find something new to live on, the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment shows something more. It shows whether the government has understood that the welfare basis of the future is nature. A society that does not destroy the climate and does not use up the livelihoods of its descendants must necessarily rely on circular resources — that is, three things, roughly: the competence of the population, renewable energy and living nature. A very large proportion of future products, businesses, jobs and well-being must necessarily be based on the potential of biomass, biochemistry and energy and information solutions found in natural diversity and ecosystems. It is crucial for the future business community that we now start our efforts to build knowledge of Norwegian nature, as proposed by the Green Party in its budget. It must be a central government task to produce this knowledge base by mobilising the full range of research, business and organisations and making this knowledge available to all. The basis for comparison is simple: if we use a modest proportion of the resources that have been used to map hydrocarbon resources in Norway over the last few years, we will have a knowledge revolution for Norwegian nature. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has a key role to play in this project because they will have an overview and coordinate of the overall management of nature and the environment while ensuring that the absolute prerequisites for sustainable green development are present: the fundamental self-esteem of nature, the autonomous protection values and the tolerance limits of species and ecosystems. The proposals made by the Right and the Advance Party to the State Budget 2015 made this quite the opposite. The ministry that manages these values was the big loser. The government showed that it had not understood that nature and environmental protection are not an premature booklet but a central instrument in the development of sustainable Norway. To weaken the environmental sector in a budget where billions are spent on almost everything else was an incredibly bad signal. Honor be the Christian People's Party and the Left, who made the budget clear better. But it is of course a pity that they had to use so much force on damage reduction that they had done so little with basic features that go wrong, more oil dependence, more roads and more consumption. The Green Party proposes three main actions in energy and environmental policy which are prerequisites for the green shift. The capacity and role of the environmental sector must be strengthened strongly, including a large-scale commitment to research and monitoring in Norwegian nature. In order to stop the loss of natural diversity, natural areas must be preserved. Protection of productive forest must rise from 2,6 pst. until 10 p.m., new national parks need to be established and, above all, municipalities need to be able to protect nature. We need to start phasing out the oil sector, and we need to shift the framework conditions and subsidies that support the oil industry to build the new, sustainable economy. That is why the Green Party is proposing to start the oil and gas exploration phase, which we cannot, however, extract if we want to achieve the two-degree objective, and instead put a strong emphasis on sea wind and international climate action. We also provide Norwegian municipalities with the resources, capacity and competences they need to tackle, adapt and combat climate change. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party, the Green Party has proposed that a climate law should be voted on in the Stortinget this period. A climate law represents the difference between this long series of years of unfollowed climate promises and a climate policy that is actually being implemented on a planned basis. This is not an obstacle to the development and development of Norwegian infrastructure; on the contrary, it is a planned basis for making it more efficient and more profitable in the future. It's a proposal that I hope all parties will think carefully about and vote for when it comes up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e973	The representative Hansson and I fully agree on the need to create new, green jobs. We have to start the transition, get more legs on, even though the oil and gas sectors are going to be important for decades to come. In the Greens/Greens/European Greens alternative state budget, it is proposed to increase taxes by 38 billion. and to increase the tax heavily on business owners and entrepreneurs. The question is whether the representative Hansson thinks there will be more or less new companies with a scheme that will increase the taxes by 38 billion. and makes it less profitable to start a business, less profitable to own a business and less profitable to realise good green ideas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e980	The representative Hansson believes there will be more green jobs with the Green Party's grip, because that increase of 38 billion. kr, to which the representative Astrup refers, is mainly an increase in green taxes on goods and services that have a much higher environmental cost than the price currently involved. We have a 9 billion increase in taxes and levies that do not affect the lowest income groups, and we have stronger incentives and tax credits for small businesses and entrepreneurs than the Right has in its budget, and we have heavy inputs for idea development, for innovation and for green business. We collect these funds into taxes on environmentally hostile consumption and on the tax collectors who tolerate it, and transfer them to investment in new business, for which I would think a conservative party for which the Right will rejoice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e986	The representative Hansson is right that the Green Party in its alternative budget commits to reducing taxes on those with the lowest incomes, but it is not always the case that it is those with the absolutely lowest incomes that start the new businesses. The representative, Hansson, may well not be in doubt that they also strengthen taxes on Norwegian ownership and for entrepreneurs through increases in taxes not only on green taxes, but also on Norwegian ownership. Does the representative Hansson really think that this will make it more attractive for someone who has a good, environmentally friendly idea, someone who has a technology, start a business, realize that business and thus contribute to creating new, green jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e991	As I said, I recommend everyone to read the Greens' Budget and the very strong incentives we have for setting up and for small businesses in green industries. These are very powerful instruments. We tax large wealth and high incomes because we believe that large wealth and high incomes have a good backbone to bear a greater share of the community and will be able to recover the taxes and charges in a future business that Norwegian capital has to live on when they can no longer live on oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e996	Sometimes you can wonder what the Greens want with our districts in Norway. I see that for Finnmark and North Norway you don't want oil and gas in the future – it's fy – it's a great industry in the north. You don't want mineral extraction and mining – it's a big industry in the north. And you want to remove Great Norwegian on Svalbard – the company is very important in terms of Norwegian sovereignty. On the one hand, you want to remove what you live with today, and on the other hand, you also want to remove one of the things that we live for, that in Finnmark we can actually run snowmobiles. What kind of hope for the future does the Environment Party think they are giving us who live and live in the north, with such a policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1001	The Green Party, and not least the Green Party in Finland, is looking forward to the future of Finnmark. We do that not least because we know that Finnmark has considerably more legs to stand on than oil and should soon get more legs to stand on than oil, because not even the Progress Party ignores the fact that during not too many decades Finnmark will have to, and we want Finnmark to prepare well for that situation. The Green Party is not against mining in Finland or Norway, but we are against mining that is environmentally irresponsible, for example. mining in Repparfjord. And we should think that the Progress Party is also against irresponsible mining. In the case of coal at Svalbard, we are first of all in the situation that the company seems to disappear by itself, and if the Progress Party believes that it is the end of Norwegian existence at Svalbard, it is sad. The Greens are convinced that Svalbard has many other good legs to stand on that will not rock the least of Norwegian sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1006	Although in many areas the Green Party goes far beyond the Workers' Party, I would like to stress to the representative Rasmus Hansson that I think we have had many interesting conversations during the autumn. I also think that in the state budget we are dealing with, we have many interesting common features, among other things. proposals. We are together on the entire eleven proposals. I think that's good. I think it's important that we manage to gather on important things in the future. Then I have a question, whether it could not have been a bit tempting also for the Greens to support two more proposals that have been promoted. One goes on with the competence of the oil-related part of Norwegian business, how it can be used and how it can be used in other sectors. I want to challenge the representative on that. The last proposal is the carbon capture and storage ratio, where we believe that Norway can play a significant role in bringing up a full-scale facility in Norway as well. I would believe that it could also be within the sphere of interest of the Greens/Greens/EFA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1013	Firstly, I would like to stress that we have also appreciated both the conversations and the signals that have come from the Workers' Party. We look forward to further developing it and challenge the Workers' Party to deliver on much of the interesting thinking that is coming, while continuing to cooperate with the Right Party and the Advance Party on an even better environmental policy, which they regularly promise they can deliver. With regard to the two challenges posed by the representative of Aasland, first of all, I would like to say that the proposal to exploit the competence of oil is a proposal that we may not have seen well enough, and on which I certainly see the point, and on which we are going to think carefully if we want to be involved. In the case of carbon capture and storage, the remaining 14 seconds do not allow enough response. It is a field in which we recognise the necessity of technology, but we do not agree that Norway can and should be a driving force for that technology, because we believe – unfortunately – that the Mongstad project had removed the basis from that argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1020	It is interesting to read through the Greens' alternative budget, with re-priorities that make one have enormous sums to distribute. At the same time, it's almost most interesting to see what the game doesn't choose to give you more funding. Such an item is the open-air item. There we read the unusual number 0 in the increase from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) budget agreement has been implemented to strengthen this item by 10 million. kr. The funds shall go to the Year of Outdoor Life, the Civil Archipelago Service, the organisation of disabled persons in open-air areas and the operational support of open-air organisations. My question is then: what is the reason why the Greens do not choose to give priority to this important work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1027	I want to start by saying, one point for the Christian People's Party – great that the Christian People's Party has managed to increase that post! It doesn't look as good that we don't have an equal number in our budget. So here's a challenge we're going to take with us. Then I would like to stress that the whole budget of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens is based on the fact that it is a budget to take care of the free, Norwegian nature, precisely for people's use and outdoors – it is more important than to pay the outdoors themselves. We have a budget that points towards a society where people have more time, at the expense of material consumption, time that should not least be used for outdoor life in Norwegian nature, which we are very busy paying. It may well be as important as granting funds directly to outdoor life. But I acknowledge that it is great that the Christian People's Party has been pushed forward with an increase in this post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1036	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1039	Let me first start by thanking the Committee on Good Work, and not least thanking the Government Parties and the Cooperation Parties for not only getting a budget, but also getting a good budget for energy policy for 2015. The production of oil and gas is Norway's largest industry in value creation, measured in the income of the treasury and measured in export value. It is also Norway’s most important district industry. Revenue from this activity gives the country considerable financial space to finance the Norwegian welfare state. I think we should remind each other of this when we are dealing with the entire Norwegian state budget for 2015 here in Stortinget. It is and will remain so that the values must be created before they can be distributed to the best of all. The industry has always been cyclic, and it will remain cyclic. We now have behind us a period when there has been almost permanent growth in investment from year to year. We are at a top level of history in terms of investment on the Norwegian base. Both 2013, 2014 and 2015 will go into the history of the years with the highest level of investment. At the same time, we see that this growth is about to flatten out. Nevertheless, there is a significant potential for continued value creation on Norwegian soil, and estimates by the authorities are that more than half of the resources on Norwegian soil are left. Therefore, it is important that we ensure that we get the most out of the fields that are in production. We need to understand the resources on the Norwegian base well, and we need to ensure good resource management in order to also take care of national interests. This has been the priority of the government in the budget for 2015, and I am pleased that most of it has received support from the Stortinget. While we must take account of the high values, we must also take care of climate, health, the environment and safety. So I think for the activity level in the years ahead, it's important that the big project we're going to discuss together next year, Johan Sverdrup, is on time. In the case of renewable energy, the Government of the 2015 budget has facilitated the development of more renewable energy through amendments to several framework conditions, including: the Government has proposed to introduce more favourable depreciation rules for wind turbines. We have increased the entry point for the base rate for small energy, and we have taken a number of other measures, including after the budget was presented. with adjustments to the electrical certification system, to which several of the other speakers have been assigned. Then we also proposed transferring Transnova's tasks to Enova. I am also pleased to receive considerable support in Stortinget. Then there are many who are discussing whether the transfer to Enova is big enough. There is a discussion The Storting would like to take, but I would like to remind you that there was an escalating plan for the fund that finances Enova, when we took over. That fund is already strengthened by more than 8 billion. In addition to the escalation plan, the red-green lots contributed to their work. We have also presented the CO2 management strategy in the State budget this year. We presented it in connection with the State budget. A broad range of activities has been presented and the main objective is to identify actions that can improve technology development and cost reductions. I would like to remind you that the technology centre at Mongstad is still a supporting element of this strategy. Then I was going to talk about the flood and the escape, but I expect that I'll have a good opportunity to do it both in the loop shift and later in the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1063	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1067	The management of our petroleum resources shall ensure the country's income, as indicated by the Council of State, but it shall also strengthen Norwegian industry, industrial development and employment. In the almost 50 years that have passed since the first permit was granted, we have built a large and important supplier industry. However, after many large contracts went abroad in the winter of 2012–2013, several processes were initiated that took on the high cost level of the Norwegian supplier industry. Contracts for the development of the Johan Sverdrup field will soon be awarded – the largest single investment in this decade. Much is at stake in an industry that has to allow thousands of employees to leave these days because maintenance, modifications and other projects are being pushed on or cancelled as a result of the capital discipline of oil companies and falling oil prices. What does the Council of State do to ensure that the terms of the contract for the Johan Sverdrup field and other projects are designed to contribute to the strengthening of Norwegian industry, employment and industrial development?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1076	As the representative Henriksen will be familiar with, a wide range of national laws and international agreements regulate this type of contract. However, we have seen that there have been significant cost challenges in Norway, both among operators and among suppliers. There's none of us earned, no matter which part of the table you're sitting around. I am pleased that this is being addressed strongly and clearly, both in the supplier industry and among the operators on a Norwegian base. The OED, together with the Oil Directorate, has started work to see how we can improve cost control. It was absolutely necessary after there were very many exceedances also on the base. So it's my impression that it's not in the Norwegian supplier industry the concern for the Johan Sverdrup field is the biggest, we've seen on the contrary trends of greater concern about those questions elsewhere than there. I perceive that the Norwegian supplier industry is offensive and ready, and believe that Johan Sverdrup is going to be very good, even for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1083	I want to start by saying that I am positive that the state is willing to take over Åknes/Tafjord Emergency Centre. It means a lot to those municipalities that have invested a lot of capital in this. But my question is that the last few months have shown that climate change has come much closer to us. The councils themselves have been on an inspection and seen the destructions in Flåm and Odda, and there is no reason to believe that development will turn with the first, rather the opposite. In view of this: what will the Council of State do to meet this and to be better prepared for the different impacts of climate change that could come in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1090	Let me first commend the representative Andersen Eide's commitment to this kind of question. I really appreciate that. Then it's quite right that the representative points out, that everything indicates that it's going to be more demanding weather in the future, not least more rain. The first thing we have to map better is where it's going to work out more. It has already started work with the Meteorological Institute together with the NVE. We obviously need to implement actual hedging measures. That is why I am pleased that the budget was first strengthened by the government for the work of floods and gliding and then strengthened here in Stortinget. Later, the Stortinget will discuss the new age, where there is also a strengthening of this work. I also think that we need to assess whether increased production of regulated power can mitigate the risk of natural damage, primarily in the West, but also in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1099	The centre party believes that Enova is actually weakened in terms of next year's tasks and budget. It is right that fund capital should be increased, but increasing fund capital itself does not contribute to the immediate strengthening of Enova's work. When one simultaneously presses in tasks from Transnova to 80 million. NOK and also a support scheme for households that could cost SEK 240 million. kr, that means that a real weakens Enova’s ability to perform its tasks in other areas. Now it is that in the budget the proposal for a tax deduction for an increase was slaughtered by the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance said that it would make it ‘favorable to invest in housing’, it would ‘favor owners of dwellings rather than tenants’, it would be an action that ‘in any case would have been carried out’ and therefore it is ‘a purely income transfer’ — and therefore not very good. In addition, the sample surface ‘will rise in several billion dollars’. The question is whether the State Council agrees with the Ministry of Finance's criticism of the tax deduction scheme and how that matter will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1106	As the representative is very familiar with, this question is a fiscal question, and the Minister of Finance must answer that question. Taxes – or a support scheme, which now becomes the next year – are one of many measures for an increase in households. I think that just illustrates a little bit of the good energy and climate policy cooperation we have between the four parties, which shows that it is actually possible to contribute to more efficient use of energy in Norway without penalising people with taxes and taxes, which were the review melody of the red-green government. I believe that the system we now have in place is a good one. It's going to lead people to make use of the system, and they get to use the energy more efficiently than the case is today. And it's much less bureaucratic than the scheme has been before. I believe that I can be fully committed to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1115	We are in a situation of low oil prices – mainly because of. shale oil production in the United States, affecting the rest of the world. At the same time, there is more than enough oil in the world, so there's nothing to suggest that this is a turn – it's more that it can be a shift. The use of oil has also not increased as much as expected internationally. As the world takes on board what we need to do to reduce emissions — in order to reach a two-degree target — consumption will also have to decrease internationally, with the impact it has on prices in Norway. And it's the prices that are crucial for how much production there will be, and how many fields are coming up. It's not the amount of resources in itself. In such a situation – is the Council of State willing to look at changes in the tax system and aid schemes for oil and gas exploration and to have a different risk distribution between country and company? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1122	As several of the previous speakers on both sides of the political bloc in Norway have been involved, there are enough of these things that have been going on for a very long time and that are about creating a stable and predictable framework for this big and important industry. At least it's not far up on the block of the oil and energy minister, I suppose. So I want to say something about the general picture. As regards both the development of the market and the issue of the climate challenge, first of all, I want to say that Norwegian gas exports are part of the solution to the climate challenge. It is the most cost-effective way to reduce CO2 emissions from the European energy mix. Then I also want to say – and I believe that we have every reason to be very proud of – that over many years we have had tough demands for the activity on Norwegian soil on environmental and climate issues. This means that the production on a Norwegian base is very robust for a tighter climate regime in the future, which we both hope will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1134	The latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that, at today’s pace, the carbon budget will be exhausted in 15 years’ time. Yesterday, the Council of State said to the requirements of time that we should live on petroleum in 2045 as well. SV has a great deal of respect for the competence and value creation that people favour on Norwegian soil, and we will use it in the climate transition ahead. But we also need to reform our petroleum policy, Mr President. The government party has no support for SV's request for a tempo selection to assess whether we are doing this is consistent with the two-degree target. But I wonder, is the Council of State agreed that the reports from the Climate Panel must have consequences for how we assess our fossil energy extraction? And is it fair that rich countries like Norway will be able to exploit all our resources, leaving poor countries to let resources lie unused?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1139	The commercial decisions on Norwegian pedestal are taken by commercial operators. I have full confidence that those who are actors on Norwegian pedestal also assess future changes in climate policy. But, as I said, Norwegian pedestal is very robustly faced with absolutely necessary future restraints in climate policy. This is one of the reasons why the government is spending a great deal both on increasing renewable power generation and on facilitating increased output in the power-intensive industry. It'll be a little bit of a black paint. What we really need now is to get into a tight international climate agreement, which I am absolutely sure my colleague will talk about afterwards, and we have never been so close to getting to it. We have, among other things: as the government has made an active contribution to Europe, it has gained a tight ambition from Europe. We also see that both China and the United States for the first time seem to be willing to comment. If we get this in place, it will create a good framework for industry and governments to contribute together to solving the climate challenges. I believe that there is reason to be optimistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1146	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1150	This is perhaps the biggest climate debate in Storting, where we decide where to use our money to achieve our climate goals. But even more important than this debate is the meeting that is currently taking place in Lima, and those who are there to get new steps on the way to a climate agreement in Paris in 2015. From the Labour Party, we wish the climate minister every success in Lima. We expect – and believe – that she will be ambitious on our behalf. The working party will give praise to the government to continue the rainforest bet to the red-green government. Last year it tried on a big cut. It didn't do that this year. We're happy about that. We also think it's good that Stortingen is 400 million. to the UN Green Climate Fund and that the Minister has today made it clear that this will apply for the next four years. We must contribute internationally – with capital and with political will. But if that is going to have something to say internationally, we have to do the job here at home. This is where the government has really not delivered. For a year, the climate minister has met in Stortinget. She has barely provided a single case to reinforce climate action. On the contrary, the government has objected. It did so when, as long as possible, it opposed the electrification of Utsira, or when it would not be with the opposition to withdraw the oil fund from the coal. All the way, the government has said it's in the budget that we're really going to see their climate policy. We've seen it now, and it's not good enough in any areas. It wouldn't lead us to a low-carbon society. In most areas it was not good enough. Even your own promises were not fulfilled. The government has promised an accrual. The industry's been waiting for a year. It didn't come. It's a serious breach of promise. At the top of it all, the sustainability chapter was removed from the state budget. That's the way it goes when the leader of the Advance Party is with the last word. It boasts that there is more climate debate in Norway. Well, that's because the government has gone to an extreme. In this debate, the Right Party and the Progressive Party say that there is a change of pace in politics. You hardly find a politician outside the Right and the Advance Party who would say the same thing. I can hardly remember getting more clear feedback from people, from the organisations – yes, even from the government’s own friends. The Left's leader, Trine Skei Grande, said that the climate minister has left the whole job to the Left. Political editor Alstadheim of Today's Business wrote in a comment that this is not the time for the climate minister to leave, it's the time to join. Then there must be a humiliating embrace when the Progress Party Gjermund Hagesetter says that this is the best Environment Minister Norway has ever had. I understand he's saying that. Finally, the Progress Party has been given a climate policy they are satisfied with: minimum climate policy. I understand that it must be a demanding job for the minister to have colleagues to convince who don't even believe in climate change. It's not just something we in the opposition say -- no, even the Prime Minister says it. After the budget break in the fall, she said that we must remember that it is tougher to be a climate minister in a government where not everyone is so concerned about it. Yeah, I get it's tough. That's a very good argument for getting a government where everyone's busy. That's an argument for a new government. We in the Workers' Party have our option. We will move towards the low-emission society. We want people to live environmentally friendly lives. It requires a huge turnaround, because in Norway, during my lifetime, we are going to be twice as many inhabitants, while emissions are going to disappear. My generation of politicians are the ones to rebuild the country. In the work song «We are the thousands who build the land», we sing: «now we build the new time». That's what we're going to do. We need to build the new time – the climate. It is true, as our new party leader says, the climate must be like a framework around all our policies. All policies must be sustainable. It requires tough choices, but it also provides unique opportunities, if we dare to bet. Our budget is taking us new steps towards that future. The climate challenge is one of the major environmental challenges. The second is to take care of biodiversity. For the first time since Trygve Bratteli set up an Environment Ministry, we no longer have an Environment Minister. ‘Environmental protection’ is away from the Minister’s title. That in itself is not a big problem. Unfortunately, however, environmental protection is not just away from the title, it is also away from the policy. We have a government that doesn't take enough into account nature: It would have a free slip when it came to scooter racing. Fortunately, it was stopped in the first round, because the decision it had made turned out to be illegal. It would have dumped waste in the fjords, even if the directorate says it is not sound. It will practise the Law of Nature in a different way. We all understand that it does not mean taking more care of the natural diversity. For approx. Three weeks ago, the Prime Minister was in the Question Time. Then Bård Vegar Solhjell asked if she could mention a few things – yes, at least one thing – where the government had invested in nature protection, in the state budget and otherwise. The answer was no, the Prime Minister could not mention one thing where the government had invested in nature protection. It's disappointing. But I'm not really that surprised. It is not very surprising that a Right Party government does not bet on nature protection. But one area I thought they'd bet on was forest protection. For in the election campaign Erna Solberg said, after that the red-green government had given record volume to forest protection: ‘In the forest, 60 per cent of the species live in Norway and about half of the endangered species. We must therefore step up forest protection through several agreements with forest owners on voluntary protection." And she said, ‘An environmental policy needs to be reinvigorated. Under today's government, classical nature protection has been downgraded. Forest protection is slow, even though forest owners have offered large areas.’ With these signals from the prime minister just before the election, it's not strange people had expectations. But when the state budget was presented, Siv Jensen proposed to cut the forest protection area by 2/3. They used the argument that it was no longer necessary. Well, everyone who worked with the forest disagreed: the industry, the landowners and the environmental organisations. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party have negotiated most of the cut. I would like to hear what the climate minister is saying today about his own argument. The natural consequence of that would be to say that these extra funds are not needed. I don't think she's going to say that, because she knew that the cut she did would have major consequences. The Workers' Party together with the Centre Party, SV and the Environment Party The Greens today propose that the government should present a plan to increase forest protection. When we've seen how low the government prioritizes, there's a need to commit it more, if we're going to achieve our protection goals. It's a shame that that proposal doesn't seem to be adopted. We are now entering the Year of Outdoor Life. We believe it would have been a unique opportunity to bet on outdoors. It gives people experiences, and that's the best work we can do for public health. The state spends an average of 57 000 kroner each year on repairing the health of each of us. Imagine what we would have saved if we had spent more money avoiding people getting sick. When people who are not active are asked what they wish they did more of, the answer is not that they would want them to go to the gym. No, what they're saying is that they would want them to be more active in nature. Outdoor life is the best way to make people more active. That is why the Workers' Party is proposing its own outdoor package. We're proposing money to map nature, so we know what to take care of, we're proposing to double the sum to buy up natural areas, so we're securing ownership of natural pearls, we're proposing ways to better facilitate use, so that even more people get used to nature, and we're proposing a much greater effort towards children and young people. When you learn to use nature as a child, you have a gift for life. That is why we have increased support for the natural school bag. We also suggest an hour of physical activity in school every day. The draft budget from the Right and the Advance Party was an extreme point in Norwegian environmental policy. I would like to thank the Left and Christian People's Party for having managed to correct the biggest disappointments. But it is also important to say that there is a majority for a greener budget in this Chamber than what is being adopted today. Today, the Christian People's Party and the Left had more success just by voting in favour of our environmental budget, and it completely without debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1206	Europe faces major challenges in the energy sector, both in terms of maintaining energy supply and reducing climate change. Lack of a European electricity network is just one of the challenges. Norway has an important role to play in achieving the climate and renewable targets in Europe. There is considerable value in Norwegian power generation, and we have large resources that have not yet been used in the field of renewable energy. In addition, we will contribute oil and gas towards Europe. In addition to the IEA, the International Energy Agency, Norwegian oil and gas production is needed within a two-degree target. A greener Europe can become even greener with Norwegian gas. The future is electric, and the green shift is moving forward. Our common budget continues in this process. The 2015 State budget facilitates the further development of renewable energy in Norway. Efforts are being made to facilitate more small-scale power generation. These are important resources and provide value creation in large parts of the country. In addition, new technologies in this sector contribute to making the expansions in a much more environmentally friendly way than they did in the past. We equip Norway for the future by stimulating more renewable energy deployment. The e-certificate system that has been put in place is aimed at expanding the e-certificate system together with the Swedes. 26 TWh by 2020. The government sees that today too little part of the development is on the Norwegian side. This applies in particular to wind power. That is why we are now introducing favourable depreciation rules for wind power. In addition, we increase the point of entry for the rent tax. With these grips, the government wants to increase our production of renewable energy. If, in the coming years, Norway is to be able to take advantage of the potential we have for increasing the use of renewable energy, the deployment of the electricity transmission system is crucial. A well-developed network is a prerequisite for exploiting the potential for new power generation and for ensuring the power supply. In some parts of the country it is currently not possible to deploy renewable energy due to a lack of grid capacity. Major projects for the construction of new networks are already under way. That's good. In addition, two new cross-border links, Germany and the United Kingdom, have been granted a concession. This will make better use of the power systems and contribute to increased value creation. In addition, it will lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions, so it is a win-win situation for all parties. The transmission system of the future faces new challenges, from a large input of hydropower to the future grid where wind and solar power will enter the network. In addition, we propose that in the future, as consumers, we can also become producers of power by providing facilities for plus houses. We also see that as consumers we demand more power than before because of the charging of electric cars, induction furnaces, heat pumps, etc. This sets strict requirements for the network. Then the introduction of AMS, or Advanced Measurement and Management Systems, is important, AMS gives us the opportunity to strengthen the power situation by allowing better information for consumers to increase electricity consumption and reduce power peaks. When we require a robust power supply to meet our needs, it is precisely the power peaks that determine. In addition, the AMS provides us with the possibility to optimise the use of existing infrastructure. The web is changing. Large investments shall be made in the mains power supply. It requires a more rational network structure and more robust network carriers in order to meet consumers’ needs. To do this, the government has started to look at the Reiten Committee report, A better organised power grid. In addition, we have sent out the competence code at the hearing. In other words, the government is arming Norway for the future. Finally, some words about flood and escape. The government is increasing its investment in this area in the budget of the year. It's important. It is important to focus on ensuring existing construction and infrastructure, but not least on future planning and new construction. The best protection we can do is good planning. There are requirements for central authorities and not least for counties and municipalities. Good maps and geological surveys are needed. This will be a tool for good planning processes and, in particular, good prevention. We will be able to prevent future challenges through good monitoring and monitoring. In the 2015 budget, the cooperation parties strengthen flood and discard prevention by 62.3 million. kr. This is a significant increase. NVE’s assistance in the prevention and management of flood and escape risks is important for people’s safety in many places around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1241	There is little doubt that our climate and environmental challenges are global and require both national and international action. This government is presenting a policy for migration to a low-carbon society by 2050. The government therefore prioritises climate action that is cost-effective and that can contribute to technological, good solutions, including: in the transport, industrial, power and construction sectors. If we are to be able to solve our challenges, we should think about solutions that apply to all parts of society. It should be easy for most people to understand that there is a link between efficient infrastructure, such as road and rail, and travel time, environment and emissions. Most of us realize that there is a connection between facilitating newer cars with better technology and lower emissions. This government is just doing this. As a nation, Norway has succeeded over time in its electric car policy and low taxes. It is not that the lower emissions in Norway have a major global significance in relation to this example, but when we see today that many countries want to do the same as us, and the car industry wants to expand plug-in stations on the larger roads in Europe, we see that our importance as a leading country in this area will lead to international change in consumer systems, thinking and attitudes to emissions. This could be a matter that really gets a global perspective and lowers emissions so it monners, and the reason for this is because of technological development. For this reason, the Government has strengthened the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund and the Eco-Technology Scheme under Innovation Norway is considerably strengthened. I would also like to refer to the measures taken by the government to achieve the stock targets and to reduce the level of conflict in the stockpile management. A high level of preparedness for harvesting predatory game that can seriously damage grazing animals and, to some extent, licensing quotas is probably the cause of the reduction experienced by the grazing industry today. On 12 November, the Ministry of Climate and Environment announced that there has been a decline of 19 p.m. among sheep owners who have applied for compensation. 400 fewer, compared to at the same time last year. The number of sheep and lambs applied for has fallen by about 10,600 animals on a national basis, which means a reduction of over 20 pst. The sum of the replacements for reindeer has also fallen significantly. I want to boast of our Council of State and our Department that it was decided not to appeal against the Krokann judgment, and that the Environment Directorate will re-assess 77 replacement cases that have been applied for. This is a good contribution to mitigate the level of conflict. Furthermore, the Government grants more to conflict resolution measures. In this way, the role of regional predators is very important. All the concrete points in the agreement on strengthening the names have been followed up, and until 12 November this year, this government has changed only 1 out of 26 cases raised, while in the period from 2011 until October 2013 6 out of 41 cases changed. In other words, we've got a government that takes the predators seriously. It is also positive that the government has notified two cases to the Stortinget in 2015 — evaluation of the wolf zone and a stock target for wolf in Norway. In the government's cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we agreed on changes to the budget in terms of outdoor life, and strengthened outdoor life goals by 10 million. kr, which is creative and good for the budget. The same applies to strengthening the control of Gyrodactylus, salmon barrier and more liming money. Finally, I would like to say that this is a good budget, and most of the issues relating to climate and the environment are well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1260	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee, and I would also like to thank the cooperation parties for their cooperation. Norway has a good starting point for reaching the low-carbon society by 2050. The green shift is in progress. Innovation and technology development will be absolutely necessary to succeed. Business plays a key role. As politicians, we must ensure that the framework conditions for sustainable development are in place. As consumers, we have to make environmentally conscious choices. The long-term transition will include all of us. My goal is for economic growth and emissions to go hand in hand. The government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, has reached a good climate and environmental budget for 2015. This budget reinforces the ambitions and measures of the Storting climate settlement. The content of the draft budget contributes to the reduction of pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, both nationally and internationally. It also contributes to the care of natural diversity. And, above all, it facilitates the effective implementation of climate and environmental policies. The Ministry of Climate and Environment is responsible for coordinating and driving the government's climate and environmental policies. The climate and environmental profile of the 2015 budget is strengthened in many different areas. Substantial growth in the yield of the Climate Fund, renewable energy and energy conversion is foreseen. There is a significant investment in public transport, including intercity development planning. This, together with a strengthening of the reward scheme for public transport, contributes to the inclusion of traffic growth in large cities with collective, bicycle and gangways. We will also make a significant contribution to research and development of new environmental technologies in business. If the Norwegian economy is to be competitive in the long term, we need to think again. We need to develop green jobs that can become a new growth engine for the Norwegian economy. The major environmental challenges can only be addressed through international cooperation. Norway is an important driver of increasing the level of ambition in climate policy and in a new international climate agreement. In 2015, work on new Norwegian commitments and climate change meeting in Paris will be a priority task. In Lima, negotiations are now under way on the new climate agreement. The aim of the agreement is to limit climate change. The objective of emission reductions is central. The United States, China and the EU account for more than 50 per cent of world emissions. It is positive for the negotiations that these three have now set their emission targets on the table. Norway will call for a joint review of the emission targets presented in Lima. I hope we will be able to support that in the negotiations. Then we'll be better equipped to complete a good climate agreement in Paris next year. The climate summit in Paris next year will set the stage for climate action for many years to come. Work on deforestation is an important part of a new climate regime. The government will therefore work to obtain good and binding decisions. Climate finance is at the heart of the negotiations, and today we announced that Norway will contribute 1.6 billion. This is also a follow-up to the budget conciliation. It places us at the top internationally, measured by contributions per capita. At the top of this, we have provided a budget where the allocation of climate and forest investment increases to 3 billion. kr. In other words, Norway is taking the lead in international climate finance. Mobilising money for this purpose is essential if we are to be able to reduce emissions globally and achieve a new climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1295	Let me start by wishing the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment good luck in Lima, that's an important job. It may also be easier to get an international impact from the climate perspective than in your own government – it will show time. I'm going to review something that's been a topic in this room before this fall, and that's the relationship to realistic budgeting. In a letter to the Committee dated 24 November 2014, the Minister for Climate and Environment states that a reduction – i.e. a zero in the purchase of climate quotas – is not in line with realistic budgeting. It follows from the situation that there is a breach of the allocation regulation of the Stortinget § 3. My question to the Minister for Climate and Environment is: Does the Minister for Climate and Environment continue to agree with what she writes to the Committee that the reduction in the purchase of climate allowances is not in line with realistic budgeting and that there is a breach of the eligibility rules? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1304	The country purchases climate allowances to meet Norway’s international climate obligations under the Kyoto Protocol. For the current year, the size has given an authorisation to purchase allowances within the framework of 2 billion. kr. The Government has submitted a proposal on the corresponding framework for 2015. Then we know that the preparation of the budget related to the purchase of allowances is demanding, because allowances are paid only when they are delivered to the country's account in the allowance registry. As a buyer, we do not have full control of when the payment is due. Therefore, I have informed Stortinget that if it were to show you that the new agreement on the purchase of the allowances will be paid in 2015, or there is a need for other changes to the purchase plan, the government will have to return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. This is also announced in the new aging process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1311	One of the things that I think is important and good about the work we've done in the committee is that an overall committee now agrees on the issue of REDD+. In one of the comments, the Committee stresses that the REDD+ work must continue to have the land rights of indigenous peoples and foresters at the heart of all programmes. The background is that rainforests are usually better protected when indigenous peoples and other foresters have control over their territories. Nevertheless, this is not sufficient in many national REDD+ plans and international REDD+ institutions. Then my question becomes: how will the Council of State follow up the Committee's comments and work towards the need for the REDD+ work to have the land rights of indigenous and forest peoples at the heart of all programmes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1316	I welcome the Committee's comments in this area. The evaluation of the Norwegian climate and forest project gives good feedback, because we have good dialogue with the countries with which we agree. The fact that countries themselves have a ownership of the challenge of reducing their deforestation is important, because it is because they build up their own forest management – that we give money to it in the first phase, and in the next phase that we pay for results, so that they have a motivation to reduce deforestation. Then the evaluation shows that those who are closest to taking care of the rainforest are also those who live in the rainforest. That is why, perhaps, additional resources have been put into civil society, so that it can be preserved. I believe that it is precisely the overall policy in this area that makes us get good evaluations on the Norwegian climate and forest project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1321	I must say that it is clear from this remarkable budgeting to the government that the parliamentary leader in the Right believes it is realistic to cut the climate quotas. The Ministry of Climate and Environment writes in a letter to the Stortinget that it is unrealistic to cut them, and the Council of State stands in the Stortinget today and will not really answer whether it is realistic or unrealistic. But I have a slightly different question. I understand that the Council of State used the article on climate, but the Council of State is also Minister for Cultural Memory, and I think it is important that you also look at it a little bit. I think it is good that the government is proposing increased fire safety this year, but it is sad that they take it from other records on the cultural memory budget. We know that there are many private owners around that contribute to the maintenance and restoration of cultural memories. They need support and help. The central party believes that they should have received a tax exemption that could have helped them with the job they do on behalf of society. Does not the government also see a need to provide that type of tax relief to private owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1330	I'm glad the Center Party is satisfied with some of what we do in cultural memories. There was a aftermath in the field of fire safety. I think we all learned from what happened in Laerdal this winter, when it comes to putting more on fire protection to take care of our cultural memories. Through the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, we have now strengthened the allocation to the Cultural Memory Fund quite significantly – from 65 million. to 75 million. kr. The Cultural Memory Fund is a good arrangement. It's a little bureaucratic, and it quickly responds to several of the applications that come to the Cultural Memory Fund. Giving money to private owners in combination with the competence that the Cultural Memory Fund also represents, I believe is a strengthening of the cultural memory field in relation to what the previous government stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1338	Rainforest bets are very important and an area where Norway really leads an international and receives a lot of recognition for the job being done. And there is a broad, stable majority behind the initiative, which is important to continue with emphasis not only on preserving the forest, but also on facilitating a development for those who live in the forest. But there are other areas that are as important as rainforests in bonding carbon. Mangrove forests bind more in the area. There are saltwater wetlands, there are seagrass areas, and there are seaweed areas. Only in Norway, where we have a halve of areas of seaweed, you can bind 21 million tons if we get this back in place. It is also important to protect coastal areas. Then my question is: Is the Council willing to look in areas other than rainforests to develop our commitment... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1345	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1348	Now I almost didn't realize what the question was. What we have learned through climate and forest management, the fact that we have such projects over time – and as the representative of Elvesuen also says – is that there is a broad majority for this in the Stortinget, and that we also receive international recognition that we, irrespective of who is in government, follow up what we say we should do, that we have built up good competence and have good dialogue with the countries with which we agree – now we have promised that we are at this level until 2020, so there is no room for anything more there – to see the combination of using competences on it in close cooperation with the countries with which we agree, is, of course, transferable to other projects as well. If there was an answer to the question, I don't know, because I didn't quite hear what the question was.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1357	On the radio today, the Council of State announced that 400 million. kr of the year, i.e. SEK 1.6 billion. DKK in four years, will be our contribution to helping with climate finance in poor countries. What did not occur is that these are the promises made within the ordinary assistance budget of 1 pst. of GNI. That was one of the things we got into government – we got this funding, except for the 1 percent of aid that we put in place. My question is: What is the reason why the government does not provide fresh funds – now that rich Norway is going to support poor countries with climate change – but instead takes money from the ordinary aid budget and thus reduces efforts to combat poverty in the poor countries of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1366	Climate challenges are one of the greatest challenges facing the world, and seeing the climate as part of the aid is quite natural for us. Now that we allocate more money to the Green Climate Fund, it is in order for developing countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, and it is also in order for them to be able to carry out climate adaptation. The climate adaptation that they can carry out in agriculture, so that they can actually produce more food, we also believe that good assistance. By collecting money in the green fund, where you get more money from different sources and see contexts and build skills, I think we can get more for what we contribute. It is good for the climate and not least for the assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1373	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1376	A month ago, the Meteorological Institute created a thoughtful weather forecast for a December day in 2050. In the West it would come up to 200 mm of precipitation in one day, and it was not an unusual day. In South Norway, a shop could buy Christmas presents in T-shirts, and the powdered snow was replaced with rain and swallowed in lower struts mostly throughout the country. In 2014, we have had several unusual weather phenomena. In August we had hails of the size of golf balls and massive floods in the East. And in October, 300 mm of rainfall led to a 200-year-old flood in the West. Climate change will create wilder, wetter and warmer weather. There will be an increase in the frequency and intensity of floods and escapes. Some areas are and have already been hit hard. In the future, there is reason to believe that areas other than those affected today will also be affected. Projections show that it is getting warmer in all parts of the country and that the average annual rainfall will increase. Flow and slip will occur at uneven intervals, and even if we try to avoid new construction and infrastructure in areas with a high probability of this type of event and ensure areas where infrastructure and settlement were established before the hazard was known, there will always be a risk of adverse events. This can lead to the loss of life, major damage to buildings, environmental damage and breaches of critical infrastructure related to transport and energy access, which in turn can lead to considerable losses for industry and society. The NVE Flood Zone Map shows that around 22,000 people live in areas exposed to 200-year-old flooding. And the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change showed that today's extreme weather costs ten times as much as it did in the 1950s. The flood of the West in the fall did damage for 400 million. kr. The reality that many municipalities have experienced in the last three years is likely to be more normal than the exception. Government policies, including appropriations, must take this into account. Some areas and some municipalities are more vulnerable to floods, breeds and migration than others, and they have therefore received and will be subject to much greater burden than the average. Many of these municipalities do not have resources and finances to rebuild after a natural disaster or prevent future disasters. The district share and discretionary funds system is not adapted to a new reality. Major, multiple and often repeated injuries do not match 20 pst. the proportion of districts and the degree of shortening of discretionary means. There is a need to define the suspensiveness of security measures and the delay in the preparation of detailed hazard zone maps. It is necessary to draw up a proposal for a new regional share model and to facilitate the systematic monitoring of watercourses and drainage systems for surface water and the definition of the need for prevention measures. That is why we in the Workers' Party are proposing to increase funding for the NVE and promote more proposals – together with the Centre Party, SV and the Greens' Greens' Party – on, among others. a stepping-up plan in the NVE, a review of the compensation scheme for municipalities affected by natural damage, the maintenance of danger zone monitoring in the 120 most vulnerable municipalities and a timetable for updating hazard zone monitoring and reconstruction of affected areas. These proposals will hardly lead to the fact that by 2050 we have to put on bubble jackets on Christmas gift shopping, but this will lead to people suffering from floods, migration and race as a result of climate change, and to prevent future disasters in some areas of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1397	With the Right and Advance Party in government, many measures have been put in place to reduce the level of conflict in predatory game management. A high preparedness for take-off of predatory game that does, or can do, damage is enough to contribute to the reduction in loss of well 20 pst. or 10,600 animals, as the grazing industry is now experiencing. Strengthening regional predators was an important point in the 2011 rapprochement. All the concrete points in the agreement on strengthening the denominators have been followed up by the new government. Not least, we see a clear change in the handling of complaints – as the representative Fredriksen had previously entered from this pulpit. As regards the licensing of bears, the results vary considerably from year to year. In the comments, the centre party has made a point that this year only two out of nine bears should be fielded on the licence pooling quota. What they may not be able to say, is that in 2011, during the Central Party's time in government, only two out of 27 bears were killed. The corresponding figure for 2012 was two out of fifteen. This might suggest that the quota does not always reflect the number of bears actually in the areas under hunting. This government has launched many new measures to make licensing more effective, not least in the case of yours. It opens up more use of snowmobiles, practical experience using artificial light by attack, has an open consultation on the use of image monitoring/electronic warning for monitoring fishing booths for you, and has a dialogue with hunters' interests to gain good experience in today's licence hunt. The right-hand side follows up in government what we said in opposition. Others say something different in opposition than what they actually did in government. There are also two cases notified to Stortinget in 2015, one on the evaluation of the wolf zone and one on stockpiles for wolves in Norway. As a representative of a state — Eastfold — located within the wolf zone, these will be exciting debates next year. In 2015, it is the year of outdoor life, which I have great expectations for. An active outdoor life not only has an intrinsic value in itself, it is also important in the prevention of health. In a report, the Health Directorate estimated that the potential for a socio-economic gain in increasing physical activity is as much as 239 billion. kr annually, or, in another way, 406,000 years of good quality of life. When the Year of Outdoor Life goes off the staff in 2015, there will be a broad national effort to promote outdoor life. County municipalities, municipalities, outdoors councils and a wide range of volunteers will help get us all out of the woods and experience nature. The focus shall be on increased participation in and interest in outdoor life, and it shall be on pleasures and natural experiences. During the budget consultation, the Committee was informed that 3 million were missing. kr to complete all planned activities. I am therefore very pleased that the cooperation parties have found room for this requested increase. It is also gratifying that there has been another 2 million. NOK 2 million for the Archipelago Service. kr for the organisation of disabled persons in open air areas and 3 mills. kr for more operational support to open-air organisations. Although the amounts may not in themselves be so large, in the context of the entire state budget, the money goes into activity in collaboration with volunteers. So this gives added value to a lot of people. Finally, a small comment on forest planting. The cooperation parties agree that the funds cannot be used for the planting of foreign wood, such as: sitkagran and an assessment is to be made as to whether Norwegian spruce can be used in the West or north of the Salt Mountains. The representative Arnstad said this would block wood planting. I think it pays to wait for a professional assessment before concluding what this assessment will actually land on. I also record that a press release from the Norwegian Forest Association on 21 November is entitled: ‘Great impact on the forest industry!’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1421	Petroleum activity has given the country huge revenues, but perhaps as important it is that we have built up a supplier industry. This is in line with the visions of those who left the political basis for the management of our resources. It may be interesting to look at what is legally attached, what is stated in the Petroleum Act about this. It says: ‘The Petroleum Resources shall be managed in a long-term perspective to the benefit of the entire Norwegian community. Including, the resource management shall provide the country with income and contribute to ensuring well-being, employment and a better environment and to strengthening Norwegian industry and industrial development while taking the necessary account of district policy interests and other activities.’;» In the last year, we've had a rough stop in the activity on the Norwegian pedestal. It's a very serious situation. There are three factors that each work, and the sum is going to be pretty bad. We have a high cost level that has built up both in Norway and internationally over many years. We have seen a capital discipline in the oil companies where the dividends to the owners are given priority over long-term value creation. I hear Right talk a lot about that it must be created before it is shared. There's a message that maybe should go to Statoil these days, which has to borrow money to pay its dividends. Then we see a fall in the oil price – in itself nothing new. It is, as the Council of State has been in, a cyclical industry. We think that the oil price will rise again, but no one knows when and no one knows what levels we're going to end up on. The question then is, when the price rises again, when the activity resumes, do we have the skills and capacity needed, or will we then have a new race and a new spiral of costs? The working party is deeply concerned about the situation that is now building up. 10 000 Norwegian jobs are lost during the year, perhaps four times if we are to count on hired labour, much from abroad. DNB tracks 15,000 more to next year. In the oily South-West, West-Agder, Rogaland and Hordaland, the unemployment rate has increased by 1,757 from November this year to November. It's a 12 pst. the increase in unemployment, while for the rest of the country the increase in unemployment is less than 2 pst. It says something about the drama in the situation where it hits. In addition to following developments, the majority will not do anything in a situation where our biggest industry loses tens of thousands of jobs with the consequences that this will have. That is what we are looking at in the budget. They don't want to do anything about the permitting code. The government doesn't do anything about postponing projects that we've seen, like, Zidane that was exposed due to disagreement on tariffs. They will not be involved in reviewing the situation in the Norwegian supplier industry with a view to further development of the industry, nor will they ensure that the downsizing does not go beyond maintenance, safety and HMS. They would not agree that the Oil Directorate should have the competence to make independent, professional assessments of licensing plans in terms of strength from land and industrial ring effects. They will not help to ask the government to ensure that wells that have been temporarily studied are permanently studied, which may be a contribution to engaging in free rigging capacity. I remember that we have 3,000 wells that are not permanently studied. Today we got the message that Statoil is suspending rigging again, three contracts, a long time in advance. The situation is gruesome compared to what it was a few years ago, where the big theme was rigging on Norwegian pedestal. What we see, in my opinion, is something that is tending towards a coup d'état mentality, which is in stark contrast to the visions of those who left the political basis for the construction of our oil industry and our times as an oil nation. The people understood that political governance is important in order to achieve the objective of resource management and ring-fence beyond market forces alone. They understood that you have to go to harvest. The Labour Party will have a society with small differences and great opportunities for all. It requires political will to act when needed and to make the market work when it works. In such a situation as we are now in, the slogan is that work for everyone is job no. one of the most important things to bring with it. We showed that we controlled this during the financial crisis. We were able to unload the country without major negative effects for that reason. What we see today is a government that doesn't have the ability to see that it's building up a difficult situation in the West, and the government's policy is increasing inequality and less opportunities in the West.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1443	It has been a challenging year for the oil and gas industry in Norway. Cost reduction, efficiency improvement and falling oil prices have created a situation that is marked well after several years with record investment and activity levels on the base, in combination with a high oil price. The level of investment on Norwegian pst is estimated to fall by 8 pst. in 2015. Although the level of investment has decreased slightly, it is expected to remain high this decade. The level of activity after 2020 will depend on the size of the new findings made, the profitability of the discovery portfolio and potential projects for increased extraction in existing fields. It is therefore important to maintain the main objective of Norwegian petroleum policy, which we also heard from previous speakers, as set out in the 2011 Petroleum Communication, namely to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective that benefits the entire population. Good and stable regulatory framework conditions, a predictable level of allocation of new exploration land and a continued focus on increased extraction from ripened fields are important. This is what the government has to deliver on. That is why I am also pleased that the government, for example. Strengthen Petoro, who is constantly working to ensure increased extraction, and that we continue to focus on important research institutions, such as: the centre for increased extraction in Stavanger and generally increases the allocations for petroleum research. 250,000 people work in this industry, and when things change here, it's not just in Norwegian economy; it's noticed on the body of all those who have their jobs in the industry. This harvest has been characterised by several lay-offs and redundancies due to a lower level of activity on the base. Fortunately, many of those who have lost their jobs have quickly found new jobs, including in my home country, Rogaland, either in the oil and gas industry or outside. Many companies have also taken this opportunity to acquire skills that they have long faced. So far, there's nothing to suggest that we're going to see a big growth in unemployment in the future. But we have to follow closely. Petroleum industry is a cyclical industry, and we can expect the level of activity to rise again in the future. It is important that the current transition does not lead to a significant loss of industry skills. The cost developments that have been taking place for several years in industry are no longer sustainable. The industry is now in a necessary process aimed at reducing costs, which will be important in order to strengthen the profitability of offshore projects and maintain development activity in the future. However, under no circumstances should cost cuts in industry be at the expense of the good level of safety on Norwegian pedestals. We're going to be world leaders on the Norwegian pedestal on HMS. There is a widespread misunderstanding that two thirds of the petroleum resources must remain in the ground if we are to reach the 2-degree target. Some also believe that this means that Norwegian oil and gas must remain lying. This is a misunderstanding that is often repeated. This summer even the head of the Workers' Party was interpreted as meaning this. Fortunately, he was clearer at a later stage and concluded that this mainly applies to coal. Two thirds of the fossil resources have to lie down if we're going to achieve our goal. Two thirds of these resources in the world are coal. Oil and gas will continue to be a significant part of the world’s energy mix in the future, and gas is a sensible and efficient bridge to the renewable society. However, a world of more stringent climate policies will make greater demands on what can be allowed by emissions, including from fossil sources used. Norway is well equipped to meet this future. We produce oil and gas with a low carbon footprint compared to the production of other countries. The Norwegian cap has the world's highest CO2 tax, and the activity is subject to allowances. In the future, it is the lowest-emission production that will be most competitive. A good climate and environmental policy for Norwegian oil and gas production is therefore not only important for the world’s climate; it is also important to maintain the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. I think we have reason to be proud of our environmental focus within the industry and of the amazing technology development we find here. It is also this technology development that will help us towards the low-emission society, which means that Norwegian oil and gas can be part of the solution and not the problem. With regard to the debate that the government is not offensive enough, given the situation the industry is currently facing, I would just like to remind you that perhaps the most important thing, not even perhaps the most important thing, is that industry is predictability and good framework conditions. That's what's our job as authorities to back up and secure for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1479	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1483	It is gratifying to see that this government has chosen to continue its petroleum activities on the basis of the communication from the government of Stoltenberg II, but there is no willingness to control this industry, based on new and up-to-date knowledge. For us in the Workers' Party, it is important to facilitate growth and new jobs throughout the country through an active enterprise and employment policy. In view of less activity in the oil industry, major challenges have arisen for the actors concerned. In order for us as politicians to remedy a situation of downsizing and permitting, we need to have stable and good framework conditions in place, not only for the companies, but also for the many thousands of employees in the industry. There is a lack of understanding of the competitive business challenges of this government. In Trøndelag, large companies such as Reinertsen and Aibel have gone to mass redundancies due to low order intake. The active substance such operators had in such difficult situations in the past was temporary permits. Unfortunately, this is no longer possible with this government, which has weakened the law of permacy and made it more expensive to permite employees in order to save money, since then to give this as a tax cut to those who have the most from before. It is fundamentally unsocial because many highly competent and competent people suddenly stand without their livelihood, and a service industry loses good competence. We in the Workers' Party are also concerned that the energy industry has been let go of HMS and the necessary maintenance to save money in a low economic cycle that we now have. It is therefore incredibly important for this government to take action to eliminate this delay. The removal by this government of the reference to Norway’s ambition to lead the world within the HMS on the pedestal in its letter of assignment to the Petroleum Authority is a clear weakening of ambitions in a very important area. To remedy the situation for the supplier industry, we therefore ask that the government return to Stortinget in 2015, in the revised state budget, with a case to this effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1496	The working party will take Norway in a more environmentally friendly direction, with more to rail, environmental technology, forest protection and increased commitment to public transport and bicycles. We know that more and more people choose to live all or part of their lives in our big cities. This growth in big cities offers opportunities that benefit the whole country. The working party is therefore committed to developing the unique opportunities available in our major urban areas. At the same time, population growth challenges us. We now see that we have major housing shortages in the big cities, which push up prices and make too many people not get into the housing market, and we see that transport needs are increasing. When we know that the cities of the world stand for 70 pst. of global greenhouse gas emissions, it becomes clear that our cities are at the heart of the solution to the climate crisis. If we are to succeed in the climate struggle, the growth of passenger transport in the big cities must be taken with collective, bicycle and times. The working party believes that time is overdue to use stronger instruments for environmentally friendly urban growth. We want to pursue an offensive metropolitan policy that contributes to a green shift, and at the same time makes people's everyday lives go together. It needs to be easier to take public transport to and from work, and it needs to be safer both to go and to ride in cities. Unfortunately, it seems that the government has not fully taken over the fact that we have to take greater action in the big cities. The government has proposed only 70 million. kr to urban environmental agreements, and in addition to important cycling initiatives. The Labour Party believes we must take two major steps. The state has to take greater responsibility for the development of public transport in our metropolitan cities, and we have to build more around the collective nodes. It becomes a little pointless when the right-hand side of Bærum votes down proposals on proposals to, for example, build more along the Kolsåsbahn. The Labour Party therefore believes that, after dialogue with the municipalities, the State should finance up to 70 pst. of the investments for major infrastructure measures if the municipalities undertake to build housing along the connecting points. It's kind of a cheek egg, because it contributes to environmentally friendly growth in big cities while there are more homes, and everyday life for most people is getting simpler – three good things at once. And we're also following up on money. We've proposed 1 billion. more than the government of the major urban environmental agreements. At the end of the day, I would like to say that for us who are working on municipal policy for the day, the Workers' Party's proposal is 50 million. kr for the mapping of Norwegian nature very happy. Today, only a quarter of Norwegian nature is surveyed, and it makes land management considerably more difficult in many municipalities, so such monitoring seems to be very good both to avoid conflicts and to make it cheaper and smarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1509	I take the floor because of the situation of the wild beast, especially the Tana salmon. Over time, the development of the wild axis in Tana has been worse than in comparable Norwegian watercourses. The situation is particularly serious for the stocks in the upper parts of the watercourse, mainly due to excessive fishing. Salmon fisheries in the Tanavas Strait have been regulated since 1873 by bilateral agreements between Norway and Finland. The current agreement entered into force in 1990 and agrees with Finland that it should now be updated and adapted to national and international principles and guidelines for salmon management. The main objective of the negotiations will be to ensure that fishing in the watercourse is sustainable at all times. In 2010, agreement was reached between the Norwegian and Finnish governments to start renegotiations on the 1989 Tana Agreement. After two and a half years of negotiations, as far as we know, there is no prospect of a new agreement on fishing in the Tana river. In our time, I asked the Minister for the Environment about the progress of the negotiations. The Council of State then replied that the conclusions would be drawn in September 2014. Now we are in December 2014, and still no conclusions have been drawn. When negotiations have not taken place, more pressure and resources should be put into the renegotiation of the Tana Agreement. I therefore hope that the Minister for the Environment here today can say something about how she intends to resolve the renegotiations on the new agreement on fishing in the Tana River border areas, and also respond to whether she will take the initiative to terminate the agreement if the negotiations do not lead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1518	I take the floor, because after listening to this debate, it seems that some representatives from the Labour Party live in the error that they have provided an ambitious climate and environmental budget. First, it's a little hard to know who I'm going to stick to. Is it the August representative, who is holding a post that the representative Hansson would probably stand up and clapping for, if he could? Or is it the representative Henriksen, who delivers an article that Norwegian oil and gas would stand up and pat for, if they were present? Shall I stick to the primary government budget of the Labour Party, or shall I stick to the adjusted version of the budget – the supplementary proposal, if one will – which they saw fit to come with after seeing how ambitious the civil budget settlement was within the environment, within refugee policy and within education policy. I understand that representatives from the Labour Party believe that the Left and the Christian People's Party should rather make a budget with them, because then everything will be so much better, but I can't see what it's going to be in the Labour Party's options that take us beyond what we've been a few on the civil side. If I were to suggest one area where you might have tried something, it's about the very favourable tax rules for the Norwegian oil and gas industry. Nothing happens, and I see no indication that something will happen, after listening to the articles today. The Workers' Party, on the other hand, is an infallible willingness to operate oil in our most vulnerable seas and increase taxes on businesses and businesses in 10 billion. DKr, or it was $13. Do you really want to delete this item? It's not good for the transition we're about to go through, and there's a reform refusal without going anywhere from the organisation of the railway sector to the municipal sector. What we're being offered is the status quo. We have to go beyond that. In the budgetary agreement like the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party have been a few, we are going in the right direction. For the first time, after eight years of red-green government, the maintenance run on the railway goes down. For the first time in the transport sector, emissions will decline after eight years of red-green government. We are strengthening the climate and environmental budget by 1.9 billion. kr. We have a green tax change of 2.7 billion. kr – much more than the Labour Party initially proposed. We have 700 million. kr in green car tax breaks – not least for those of us who live in the districts and depend on a car. Of course, this is just the start. We have to move on. We're going to strengthen the climate deal, a climate deal where the bourgeois parties had to drag the red-green after the weather to get the whole thing out. Let's move on. This is just the first budget. I'm slipping to the next budget, and I think the best solutions are, like this year, in the center-right of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1533	The working party has spent a lot of time here today criticising the government for not being forward-looking enough to cope with the change that is now taking place in the oil and gas industries. They call for more measures from the government, including: asks the government to ensure that oil companies use free rigging capacity to study offshore wells. Reference is made to a number of 3 000 wells, from the representative Henriksen. There's a number from Norwegian oil and gas -- a number that says something about the future need for studying. Statoil, for example, is responsible for 1,200 wells on a Norwegian base; only 50 of these are not in operation today and are assessed by the study. I do not disagree that it is wise to use the free capacity to perform tasks that have to be done in any case, but I agree that the Workers' Party now believes it is the government's responsibility to instruct the companies operating on a Norwegian base, in how to prioritise their resources and solve their tasks. One thing is to have strong opinions about what Statoil is going to do. Statoil is partly State owned, but instructing Statoil in this will still be a very poor ownership policy and a completely different ownership policy than the Workers' Party has been in all its years in government. But it is not surprising to hear this from the Workers' Party. In the last year, we have seen more examples of how the Workers' Party, especially in its attempt to be seen as a greener party, undermines predictable and stable framework conditions and its own previous policies on the scrappowder. At first it was Gahr Støre's statement this summer that two thirds of fossil resources must remain under the base. Fortunately, it was prepared. However, the uncertainty was created, and there was a report from the International Analysis Agency (IHS) that showed that there had been an obs-warning in Norway internationally in view of investment attractiveness. Then we had played out by the representative Marthinsen about ending with increased extraction, punctuating the oil message of the red-green government. That is what I tried earlier today to get an answer as to whether the Labour Party's policy is. The answer that came was both a yes- and a no-answer. The Labour Party is still on its policy, but clearly believes it is a bit problematic. So what they really mean is uncertain. Then a blog was written by Kjetil Lund, former advisor to Jens Stoltenberg and former State Secretary. It was frequently shared and honoured by many leading labour party politicians. Several urgent changes were addressed without prior warning, such as: the restriction of the freedom to provide services. Lund also thought that the CO2 tax had to be lifted. The representative Gahr Støre said about these thoughts that Lund thought a lot right and well. I find it alarming that the Workers' Party, in its attempt to revitalise its climate policy, is going along with the great political consensus we have had in Norway to ensure a predictable framework for the oil and gas industry. This creates considerable uncertainty for the industry, and I'm going to say that it's a bigger challenge than well study. When calling for measures to remedy the situation in the oil and gas industry now, it is worth noting the unisony message from the industry itself, which is predictable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1547	It's starting to get a little bit close to here. Let me just first answer Tina Bru, who in his excellent fight to try to find examples that the Workers' Party is not to be trusted in the petroleum policy, now must use blogs written by former employees while they are between two jobs. So she's talking about studying, that our proposal to use free capacity to study wells is unpredictable instruction of the companies, which has never happened before, as well. With all due respect, this is deaf. The activity regulation on Norwegian pedestal states that all wells drilled after 1 January 2014 shall be permanently studied after two years. It's in the prescription. There is no reason to believe that there are very many wells drilled before 2012 that stand up, and are not permanently studied, which are in better condition than the wells that have been drilled this year. So this is a very relevant problem to travel, and if that's how the government can't stand to hear any suggestions other than those that were written by our government in an upswing many years ago, I think we stand for a standstill in the petroleum business. It may be predictable, but it's not good. The representative, Rotevatn, is wondering who to deal with in the debate on climate. Will he deal with the undersigned, or shall he deal with the representative of Åsmund Aukrust? The representative Rotevatn can relate safely to the Working Party. For our part, we have some problems and we wonder who we're going to deal with. Are we going to deal with the party leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, who quite rightly hung the bell on the cat and explained that the government party Progress Party is in a different universe of climate policy, and who brutally criticized the budget from a climate point of view when it came, or are we going to believe in the representatives of Rotevatn and Elvestuen, who are trying to make us believe that in a magical way this budget has become the environmental budget of the time? We have a hard time believing that. If we look at the magic process that was in these budget negotiations, we were able to cut 40 million. kr to the Technology Centre in Mongstad, which is perhaps one of the most important forward-looking research projects in order to cope with the climate change that is taking place, and to tap into the emissions that are currently being built into industrial development and have been expanded by industrial development. The appropriations for the Technology Centre in Mongstad are now at a fraction of what our government considered necessary in order for this Technology Centre to have the role it has, as a world-leading technology development centre, perhaps the most important single technology for reducing climate emissions by between 15 p.m. And 20 pst., as the IEA says.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1562	The President requests that the statements be addressed to the President and not directly to the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1565	There are so many new phenomena that you have to deal with when technology takes on, among other things. that political advisors sit in the diplomatic lodge and write that I cannot have read the budget. I can assure the diplomat that I have read the budget. I've also read what's written in small writing. That is why I am asking some questions about the possibility that Enova will be able to carry out its tasks in the coming year, when they will both implement an aid scheme of 240 million. kr and take Transnova's duties into Enova. The centre party believes that they have not received the funds they need. I also ask questions about the depreciation of wind power. How fast can they get in place? How long will that process be? What is the risk of getting a formal investigation that can take a few years — and thus create an increase in investor uncertainty? This has not been a jubilee budget on the energy and environment side. There has been no change in climate policy. It's not just us from the Great Council who say, that's what the environmental movement has said. The agreement that was concluded is good, but there is not much money in the whole thing you are talking about. One does not reach the level of ambition of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then the representative was Rotevatn on the road. The railway lay with its broken back after the last left in government. We increased rail investment from 2 billion. NOK 10 to SEK 10 billion. kr during the period of red-green government. The budget we provided last autumn had an increase to the railway of 30 pst. What Ketil Solvik-Olsen presented, had 12 pst. Swallows with a few hundred million who were put into the bargain, you're far from the increase that the red-green government had in its last budget. We timed, and over time, the reward scheme, as left-wing plausibly introduced, I think it was 70 million. kr, while they were in government. I'm also going to spend a little minute on the question of transfer tariffs. I have to say that I wonder if it is such that this government has lighted all the trade budgets in order to find schemes that contribute to geographical smoothing, and think that these items are taken from us. It seems like they've done in terms of transfer tariffs. First it was cut last autumn, and then it was cut further in the proposal this year. While that post was at 120 million. When the red-greens went off, it is now 40 million. kr, after the Christian People's Party and the Left have tightened up the Right Party and the Advance Party. That means that two-thirds of the funding has been removed – the prudence, and I believe that the government's objective is to wind up the entire scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1578	Let me first say that there is a lot that makes me happy in today's debate, among other things. The fact that we see four cooperation parties standing straight behind what we are going to adopt today. So I want to say that after being an oil and energy minister for 14 months now, for the first time I have experienced a petroleum policy opposition in the landfill. I appreciate that, even if I think you're missing a little bit of what you're talking about. Those operating on a Norwegian base, those who ensure that these large values flow into the treasury, which ensures that between 200,000 and 300,000 people have their employment in the industry, are almost exclusively international companies. There are companies that assess where they want to invest, and one of the reasons why they have chosen to invest in Norway, is the high level of predictability of businesses we have had in this country, combined with a strict health, environmental and safety regime that companies have learned to appreciate gradually. I can assure you that I have a close and good dialogue with operators, with supplier companies and with the trade union movement in the debate on how the development on the Norwegian base will be in the future. At the same time, this long-termity and predictability are ensured by large processes that have been in the Storting around the ownership message and the kerosene message, which was presented in the previous period. And it's precisely because the industry is cyclic that we need stability and predictability. It may be boring, but it serves us all very, very well. Then I want to say a little something to the representative Ljunggren, who is drawing out some important things around the flood and walking. Among other things, following a natural damage, we demand from the authorities a district share for flood protection measures – not to replace lost infrastructure in municipalities, but as part-payments for flood protection measures. That scheme will be continued, but we will of course evaluate it on an ongoing basis. In this way, discretionary means are paid for the loss of municipal infrastructure that cannot be insured – it is located with the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation – and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food pays through the Natural Damage Fund for damage to private infrastructure and agricultural land. All of this is based on schemes that were established under the red-green, but after the last flood in the West, the Prime Minister has said that we should see if all these schemes can be handled more effectively than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1589	The Labour Party and the representative Henriksen can very well stick to both the representative Skei Grande and to the signatures, because I agree that the blue draft budget that came to this Chamber earlier in the fall was not good enough in the climate and the environment. It was actually so weak that it was about on level with the last red-green budget. We couldn't live with that, and we didn't. Now there's been changes -- there's been a shift from a blue budget to a blue-green budget. The changes have not come as a result of magic, to quote the representative Henriksen. I understand that for the Workers' Party it may be perceived as magic that a budget can be changed in the Stortinget. But that's what happened, because we no longer have a plural government, but a minority government. After demanding but good negotiations on the civil side, we have a budget that is the most ambitious of Norway's climate and environment budget. That's good, even though the Left of course wanted to go even further, and if the Labour Party shares the Left's desire to go even further, I would recommend voting for the Left's Alternative State Budget next year. It has one more possibility. So to the representative Arnstad, it's probably demanding to keep the maintenance of the railway for the first time going down. It's just as completely a reality. It says a lot about this budget, and it also says a lot about the budgets that have been delivered in this Chamber before. It is also right that the Left introduced the reward scheme for public transport when we were in the last government, in the same way that we introduced a favourable tax system for green motorism. That is what we are strengthening in this budget. It's important to many. I'm not going to stand here and say that there is a revolution in Norwegian environmental policy, but I want to say that we are now experiencing a completely different climate and environmental debate than we have seen in many years. It's just positive. It's just positive that a lot of parties want to be greener. It's going to cheer up on the left. The SV representative was asked earlier in the debate about whether she would be involved in a change of pace. We got a little bit of a waitress. I mean, we're now seeing a shift in rates within special green charges, where we see a big shift, but it includes not only increasing the green charges, but also lowering the red ones, which the Labour Party seems to be forgetting in its alternative budget. And we see a significant strengthening of green motorism through the charging system. It's also very important. One – I would say – quite a poor budget has been good. Left's happy. We deliver to our voters what we said we were going to deliver, good blue-green policy, and of course he's going to be even greener for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1604	I didn't really intend to take the floor any more in the debate, but when the representative Henriksen claims that we have 3,000 wells to study, it's possible that one day in the future we can get 3,000 wells to study. But as for Statoil, today we are talking about 47 possible wells to study, but several of these are in operation, and will be in operation. The real number of wells to study is somewhere between 23 and 26 wells. And I have to say that I react when the representative from Stortinget's pulpit fables about 3,000 wells – then you have to learn to distinguish between snow and bart. Because what you're doing is, in principle, misinforming the Size. Statoil has knowledge, will and will study wells. But as a company, they should also have the opportunity to do this, where diet-benefit is actually also important. So the real number is somewhere between 23 and 26 wells -- not 3,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1614	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1617	Just a brief comment on the petty lecture of Rotevatn in the Great Britain on negotiations. Yeah, we've been in on it before. Also in periods when the Left was not on the Stortinget, both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have been involved in numerous negotiations in the Stortingen on budgetary settlements, and what I can say is that this agreement is not a revolution. It's not a big change of pace. And it's not that it's changed a lot in the budget. I think it was a prom or under. Otherwise, Rotevatn selects and refers to an entry in the railway budget and it is ‘fair enough’. It's true that the left bet is $70 million. kr on a reward scheme, which today amounts to 1 billion. kr, but they did not invest in railway investments – nothing – and that is why the railway was broken back when they left the government offices in 2005, and we came in. There the red-green government has cleared up and doubled the investments in the railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1624	It's worth noting this debate that climate has got a lot of focus. But nature protection is forgotten, both by the Council of State and by the rest of the position. The climate challenge is the greatest threat we face, but loss of biodiversity is the second major threat. We have seen a matter where the government is troubling wrong. I challenged the Minister for the Environment to give an example of where they had taken an initiative. The Prime Minister was here in the Questionnaire, and she was unable to answer, except that they prioritised the most important – knowledge, climate and other things that the government was concerned about. But the question was whether she could point out one concrete thing that the government had done for nature protection. Then I agree with those who say that there is a different debate about climate now than what has been before. I think there's two more reasons. One reason is that we know more about climate change now. Over the past year, we have received the UN's fifth climate report, which clearly tells us how serious this is and how close the consequences are to us. The second reason why there's a lot more climate debate now is that we have a government that is at the forefront of the climate debate, which doesn't have a majority either of politicians or of people else with it. I have previously asked the Council of State about how she wanted to take the Storting and where the goals we are now going to set for 2030, without really getting a good answer to that. But I ask the government to note that both from the Workers' Party and – now also – from the Left is a clear demand that this must be within the Storting, because we do not believe that the government will be ambitious enough. At the end of the day, I basically want to be out with the Left, because I think that the Left and Christian People's Party has got a lot of good in the climate and the environment in the state budget, and that a terriblely bad starting point has definitely improved. But the way you put it forward, it makes it a little bit difficult to be as warm as I want to be. There's something about the way you're going to sell this as the climate budget of the time. After the state budget was presented by Siv Jensen, Terje Breivik stood on the pulpit and said that the “skuffand” was a rather striking word. Trine Skei Grande says that the entire job of the Environment Minister is left to the Left. I think it's great that the Left has had some impact on some things, but «historically» is not – it's not a historical climate budget that we are adopting today. I understand that the Left has chosen its allies for this period, and in some areas it is clear that they have something in common with the government – property taxes and some other things. But on the climate and environment side, it is quite clear that there would have been a different majority in this room if only the primary positions contained in the proposals for the government budget were to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1641	The representative Per Rune Henriksen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1644	This is a short comment. It sounds like you think the number of wells, 3,000, is something that's been sucked by your own chest. It doesn't. As we say in our budgetary comment on this, this is the figure of an organization called Norwegian oil and gas, which we expect to have a certain bearing on what is going on on on the base. There, Martin Straume – from BP and the head of the Plug & Abandonment Forum – says that at present there are 3,000 wells on Norwegian pedestal that need to be closed. This is not a decision of ownership policy where you say that these should be studied. This is a follow-up to the activity code, which says: ‘All wells shall be secured before being abandoned in such a way as to ensure the integrity of the well during the time they have left.’;» Here it is a question of doing the job that is required in the regulations, but which has been pushed up for some time for other resource management reasons. It is now time to use this as one of several measures to re-establish activity on the Norwegian base. I have to say that it is disappointing to hear how aggressively one meets this proposal by the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1658	I'm sorry I was a little bit prepared, I saw a change of pace on the list of speakers. In conclusion, I just want to make some comments on the debate. Firstly, the climate – as many have said – has received a lot of attention. That's good. But there are people who say that there has been a change of pace in climate policy in the last year. With respect to reporting, it's wrong. Both the representative Rotevatn and other left-wing representatives should go a little on their own and go back to the day of the submission of the State budget. As the representative of Åsmund Aukrust correctly pointed out: there was anger and strong irritation over the weak climate budget that had been presented. It is a reality. So it's getting a little bit better. That's good – honor to the Left and to the Christian People's Party for it. But there has not been a green budget – there is no revolution, there is no change of pace. The only thing that can be seen in the climate field after this fall is that the government is the extreme, and that the Christian People's Party and the Left, of course, have a job ahead of them in the next few years: to drag the government on to the right track. Everything else is to leave the feelings that were when the budget was presented. It's no wonder that climate gets a lot of attention. It's not because of a shift in climate policy, it's about a government that doesn't have the ability to deliver in climate policy, and there's a lot of noise around climate policy. That's why climate gets a lot of attention. So for the oil and petroleum activity. One must not try to doubt whether the working party is for predictability. But we have the opportunity to discuss some questions. We allow ourselves to do that -- the questions we think are relevant and most relevant. Jonas Gahr Støre has never said that two thirds of Norwegian petroleum resources will remain under Norwegian soil, so do not use it in the debate! There are incorrect instructions and referrals. So until that government itself has responsibility in terms of unforeseeableness: a tax regime that was launched a year ago has one not clear to enforce. One has created a de minimis, rights-based increment scheme. That's what happened. Had the government wanted to implement a tax deduction scheme, as they would, they could have allowed the rights-based aid scheme to become fully operational where they would have intended the tax deduction scheme to be implemented. But they don't have money for that, because the reality is that that promise costs a lot – and then they go away from it. There must be some honesty in the debate. Wind power depreciation – when do they come, and how much do they get? It would have been okay to get a clear response from the government. If there's something they're good at, it's just not giving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1675	The representative Tina Bru has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1678	First to what Aasland's representative says about my comments about Jonas Gahr Støre. I have said that he clarified what he meant about it, and that I am happy that he did it. My point was that the uncertainty was created, that was the point, but I have never claimed that he still believes it, so it is wrong to claim it here. Then I understand that it is unpleasant for the representative Per Rune Henriksen to be confronted with the fact that his own party leader believes that thoughts about less dialogue with the industry before making changes, and for example. higher CO2 prices, as Kjetil Lund writes, are right and good thoughts. But to call it scary that I point this out, I think is quite unearthed. Kjetil Lund is not just a former employee or just a blogger, he has been the climate advisor for Stoltenberg, and he sits in the representative Gahr Støre's climate panel, a climate panel that, among its 19 members, has not found room for a single representative from the oil and gas industry. It's a little funny, all the time the Working Party still claims that the industry is part of the solution, not part of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1688	I assessed it so that it could be good to come after the representative Aasland. I think that was a pretty good assessment, as seen in retrospect. It is clear that when the representative of Aasland and the representative of August believe that we represent an extreme in the climate debate, it falls on his own unreasonableness, all the time we put forward a state budget that contained more climate action than the red-green government ever showed – and many climate action that the red-green government said no when we negotiated the climate agreement in 2012. I was sitting in that negotiating room, neither the representative of Aasland nor the representative of Aukrust. I know what the Workers' Party said no to, and I know what they said yes to. And – to put it that way: the first list was considerably longer than the last. What we are doing is following up a lot of what we promoted in the last period – through the budget, but also through the agreement with the cooperation parties. In this way, we have achieved a much more offensive climate policy. So to the extent that we represent an extreme, it's because we're going ahead and leading, not because we've been on the sideline of the climate debate. It's the opposite. Let me also mention that the Aukrust representative had a long harange in his speech about our climate action, but failed to mention a single concrete new climate action from the Workers' Party. It's really saying everything about what they have to do with – nothing! What is the Workers' Party really going to – more than what is in the cooperation agreement now? What else are they going to do, how are they going to reinforce the climate agreement? We've delivered on strengthening the climate agreement, we're in the process, and we're going to continue with it, but what is the Workers' Party really going to do? The answer is probably very, very small. The representative of Håheim also had a harange about the importance of the big cities in the climate and environment struggle. I fully agree with that. However, all the measures mentioned by the representative Håheim are measures already implemented by the Municipality of Oslo, managed by the citizens. When it is mentioned that the Workers' Party will now bet 70 pst. State funding for large collective projects in and around the big cities is very fine, very good, but they did not suggest it when they were in government. There is only one government that has proposed to cover 50 pst. of all the costs of large collective projects in cities, and that is this government – not the previous government, but this government. There's a lot of things you could go into, but I see that the clock is starting to tick at zero. I have other speaking time left, so here's the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1703	Yeah, that's a perfectly correct observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1706	I got a question from the representative Helga Pedersen about the negotiations on the Tanavas line. I just wanted to answer in a calm and objective way. It is true that the negotiations on fishing in the Tanavas trek have gone out in time. The plan was originally a new agreement from 2015, but on the initiative of Finland, Norway has accepted a new agreement from 2016. However, despite meetings with substantial convergence between Norway and Finland during the autumn, the last negotiating meeting, 17 and 18 November, showed that 2016 will not be possible either. The Norwegian delegation will present its assessments and recommendations on how we should now proceed. We'll get that next week. So I have to come back to Stortinget with that matter, when we have assessed it a little more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1712	Sveinung Rotevatn has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1715	The representative of Aasland, like the rest of the workers' party representatives, consistently adheres to the draft budget of the Right-Progress Party government in his criticism in this Chamber. It seemed a little strange to me, as it was more ambitious than what the red-green themselves did when they were in government. They do not fully adhere to the budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. It doesn't seem strange to me at all, because it's much more ambitious than what they did in government, and more ambitious than what they themselves propose in this budgetary procedure. So to the Aukrust representative, who says we've got more focus on climate and environment now because we know more. Was there a lack of knowledge that caused the previous government not to deliver well enough in this area? Didn't you know enough about climate and environmental emissions to have a proper bet on collectives in cities, to get a green tax change going, to get a greener car park? If it was the knowledge that was the problem, I have a little more understanding now than what I had before for why not much happened. We do not ‘oversell’ our budget, as the August representative says, we just explain why it is the most ambitious climate budget that is agreed, and how it has been greener after the reading here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1722	Last year the country was given a new majority. That's why we have the budget we have today. A prerequisite to succeed in combining the fight against climate challenges and continued growth and prosperity development in the world is that we have enough energy and, of course, more renewable energy. Then I want, with the slightly bad mood I hear from the red-greens -- I think maybe, or at least I have to assume, that it's a little bit because they're sour that we get so much -- to take a small, quick round on what we've got in terms of renewable energy after we came to power, and the new majority was established last fall. We've increased the base rate of small-scale power plants. This will allow already built-in installations to produce more power. We have extended the time limit for participation in the certification system. Enova has given commitments to new pilots in Karmøy, working on many large network expansions in several parts of the country, both in the west and in the north, and we are going to introduce green depreciation rules. It's very funny that the red-greens are very impatient after that. Of course, the government is also, but the red-greens have had eight years to put this in place. We've said we're going to deliver in the next year. The Ministry of Finance says it will be sent to the hearing before Christmas. Then the industry will know what this is going to be like. We have also given concession to two new inter-national links with the United Kingdom and Germany. It is important for those countries to phase out their coal production, and important for strengthening the value creation of Norwegian power generation. We have not yet introduced an increment deduction, but we have, in fact, strengthened and improved the scheme of grants for an additional measure in owner-occupancy. I also believe that this is a good example of how the new majority primarily addresses energy and climate challenges, namely by mobilising and stimulating efforts by industry and by ordinary people. I greatly appreciate the impatience, both from the cooperation parties and from the red-green, but many of the things we've done, and the things we're about to do, happen because we have a different majority than we had before the elections last fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1733	It's been an interesting debate. One of the more striking things, I think, is that in fact all parties are talking about how important it is to implement climate action – I stress all parties. There should be security and a strength for the State Council, which is going to Lima now, and must be there next week, together with parts of the Committee, that in the work done there, it is really a total political increase in the implementation of active climate action. We have to look at who is implementing it, and then I have to repeat what I said earlier: it is a civil side that implements the measures that are now here, and it is a change of pace in relation to what we have had in the past. There is no doubt that there is a greater willingness to put in place measures that will lead to change in the years to come, and one should not look blindly at the size of the change now, because if you want to look back, it is just as when you started with the electric car benefits back in 2002–03 and it has grown as a large budget line until today. The changes in the green shift, car charges, will lead to high costs and have a significant impact in the years to come. This is a big shift. The big cities are taken up. This is a very good budget for the big cities. It's over 30 pst. increase in the reward scheme, which now amounts to 1.3 billion. There is also a majority playing with the big cities and their challenges. I myself have been a city councillor in Oslo – just two years ago – with a transport budget and not getting one penny of government money into the bet that was at the time. So here, too, there's a shift. Back to when the Left was last in government and had the Minister of Transport. At the time, there was a lot of creativity in that field. That's when you got a lot of what we work with today, you got the reward scheme, which was mentioned earlier. The express buses, which have been of great importance, were released, we worked through a lot of the basics of Oslopacket 3, and we had competitive outsourcing on the railways – many of these elements that we work with in the future. One thing we can also notice in this budget is that we have a reward scheme for bicycles, of 70 million. kr, of course with ambitions that it will become much bigger In conclusion, I would like to say that what is remarkable is that although there is a lot of debate, no one complains about the budget result. It seems that we agree that the result we are going to adopt on climate and the environment is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1748	The Labour Party is hurt, we're talking about the posts of the representative Terje Aasland. The hold is that the middle party should support the proposals of the Labour Party because they are closer to each other, and because one has a greater common understanding of the climate challenge. I can remember one of the last debates before the red-green government had to leave. Then the party leader Trine Skei Grande said that of all the proposals Left had made for the last four years – and that was not a few at all – the Labour Party had not given support to one. It is then quite a quest that one now rises and almost demands, in the opposition, that the middle party should support the proposals because one is closer to each other than the sitting government. We are delivering today the climate budget of the times, and after good negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left – it took some time – where one arrived in a community that was larger than what they experienced with the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1757	I've listened to the debate, and it's interesting to hear that the left is being asked to jek a little bit down, but we're probably going to jerk ourselves up. There is no doubt that there is a change of pace in climate and environmental policies when the Left comes into power. It is probably enough to mention that there has been a red-green break button for five years after one added to the biodiesel tax. Not so much has happened in terms of emission reductions and at least nothing has happened in terms of industrial output and investments in alternative fuels under the control of the red-green government. That's when we get the triggers on the markets, and so are the investments in new technologies that make you get fuel with less emissions. If we look back at the eight years of red-green governance, the Left promoted many environmental proposals, to which the representative Grimstad referred. But we did not just promote environmental proposals. There were also many other proposals in Stortinget, and I just remember that we came to an agreement on climate. It didn't happen because the red-greens wanted it so much. We almost had to drag the red-greens with us. If you look at the municipal sector, there hasn't been so much about climate in the last eight years. In Sweden, they have climate drivers and think about this in a completely different way. Sweden has worked very well at local level to reduce climate change and convert its energy sector. There is a real investment I really miss in Norway: that we get targeted action at the local level. Then we also have to think about how we can facilitate economic incentives to get to it. Since the earmarking of funds for environmental consultants, as it was called, disappeared in the late 1990s, most municipalities today have removed the one who might have been employed as an environmental consultant. And I haven’t seen any job titles in Norway in a local environmental position called the ‘climate driver’. So we have a piece to go here too, and here we have to work forwards, in the next few years, to fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1766	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1769	Now I'm just going to thank you for the debate, and try not to say anything that extends it further. I want to repeat what I said earlier today, that what is striking, is that you have a co-ordinated magnification, with all the parties, who are very concerned that we need action in climate policy. There is a great deal of agreement on what we have to do internationally, and there is strong support for the Minister for Climate and Environment in her international work. And we have a lively debate on how to implement measures, and on the willingness to implement measures in Norway. I repeat what I said instead, that I also think it is good that there is no major disagreement about climate action and what is in the budget, and little criticism. But I'm going to mention one little thing – not criticism of myself, but more of a challenge – about what's important to do in the future. It is clear that with this budget we must also focus on biodiversity, and cultural landscapes and cultural memory protection will become important in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1778	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1781	I'm not going to extend the debate either, I think. I would also like to say that I think the debate has been good. I think it's good -- I stress what Ola Elvestuen now said -- that when the massive commitment to the climate is present in the hall, it's a good starting point for the future to shape a new and strengthened policy in perhaps our very most important area of time. Then we can leave word games alone. I just record that the word "change of pace" is a motto that the citizens have begun to use. We'll see what's in it. I think it's relatively moderate, what's in the state budget now in terms of climate. With regard to the impact of the different options that we are going to vote on today: if a person starts from the conciliation or from the Labour Party budget, I am uncertain about what it is that has the best reductions in greenhouse gas emissions in itself. But I think we should leave that. So finally, it's expressed that the climate agreement is reinforced. My claim is that the climate agreement is a settlement with seven parties. It's not reinforced. I should like to see that we could reinforce it, and also bring with it the last party that is not part of the climate agreement. It would have been a strength for a total magnification.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1790	The representative of Åsmund Aukrust has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1794	First to the representative Rotevatn who almost insinuated that we had lacked knowledge, and that was what we had received in the last year. It was a matter of misunderstanding on purpose. What I said was that the UN climate report has obviously led to more political debate in Norway. I also believe that the representative, Mr Rotevatn, agrees. So it's striking that those who seem to be most satisfied with this climate budget are the representatives of the Progress Party, who call it a historic day, who call it a change of pace. They are the ones who go the farthest over the budget. It should be a cross of thought for all of us. So finally, there was one who said that the red-green government was forced into an agreement on climate. No, the red-green government wasn't. The red-green government had a majority. But you went to the Stortinget to get a deal on climate because you thought it was tricky, because you thought it was smart. Now a majority in the Biggest has put the only party that wasn't in the deal to manage the deal. And at the top of it all, you say that the reconciliation through it has been reinforced. It doesn't. That is why the Workers' Party has just taken the initiative to bring about a new climate settlement that will strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1803	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1817	I'm not going to make an article about the matter itself, it's unanimous about. But I'm going to make a mistake in the setting. Under III, it shall read ‘Incomes’. Furthermore, there is a mistake in the amount under cap. 3595, heading 01. It shall read ‘from NOK 57 900 000 to NOK 59 900 000’. I would ask that this be corrected when we are going to have voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1822	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1836	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1842	Then we're almost ready to go to voting. Before we do that, state councillor Tord Lien will transfer five kilograms. propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e1850	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e2263	A total of 21 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-7 and proposal No. 13, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 8-11 and proposal No. 14, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 12, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Environment Party 15, by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Greens' proposals No. 16-20, by Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Centre Party, proposal No. 21, from Ingunn Gjerstad on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider including solar cells in Enova’s rights-based support scheme for energy measures in households.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e2301	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16-20, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a permanent VAT compensation scheme relating to antiquarian maintenance aimed at -owners of buildings protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 17 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to propose amendments to the Property Tax Act which exempt all owners of buildings which are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 18 reads: ‘The government asks the government to investigate and propose other tax relief models that can contribute to the smooth, good maintenance of buildings that are either protected by the Cultural Memory Act or regulated for protection under the Planning and Building Act.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to consider restoring the model of financing of Norwegian cultural memory funds in force until the financial year 2013, when the annual funds available to Norwegian cultural memory funds were linked to the return on a fund capital.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget with an escalating plan for Norwegian cultural memory funds, so that by 2020 the fund will have 300 million. cents for annual distribution.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e2338	There is a vote on proposal No. 15, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the monitoring and valuation of open-air areas to be carried out by the government.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e2355	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Greens' Greens' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to show in the context of the revised national budget how the rights-based scheme for ENØK support for households could have been set up and implemented with the support of Enova in such a way that it reflects a future tax deduction scheme for similar investments.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e2372	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8-11, and proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that notices and any leave are not at the expense of necessary maintenance and that it does not reduce the strict HMS requirements applicable to Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the situation of the Norwegian supplier industry, which aims to illustrate how Norwegian industrial competence can be further developed on the basis of the activity on the socket, including how the competence of the Norwegian supplier industry can contribute to other sectors. The government is asked to return to the Stortinget in the revised state budget for 2015 with a case to this effect.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the strengthening of the system of equalisation of transfer tariffs that reduces network lease differences.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘During the spring session, the government is asked to present a separate case on Norway’s CCS strategy with a concrete proposal to establish, in line with the climate agreement, a full scale of CO2 capture and storage facilities in Norway.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a separate case to the Storting, explaining the status of the preservation and maintenance of cultural memories, valuable objects and objects in Norway. In this context, the government is asked to propose measures to ensure greater predictability of how we can better preserve important cultural memories and the cultural environment. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e2412	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-7 and proposal No. 13, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party of the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking through a stepping-up plan to strengthen Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate in order to assist municipalities in the work on flooding and migration in an even better way.’ [[NVE]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to review the compensation legislation for municipalities affected by natural damage and to present it as a separate case to the Stortinget. The aim is to ensure greater predictability by the State taking on greater financial responsibility in cases where municipalities are hit by floods, gliding and natural disasters.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the NVE provides for hazard monitoring in the 120 most vulnerable municipalities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is already asked to submit a timetable in the revised budget and, at the same time, to the NVE with sufficient resources to update, inter alia, the hazard monitoring and reconstruction of areas already affected.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that oil companies use free rigging capacity to permanently study wells that are currently temporarily under study on a Norwegian base.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner on the technologies to be covered by the rights-based support scheme for ENØK actions and on how to ensure that the implementation of a rights-based support scheme for ENØK in households does not undermine Enova’s ability to lift its other key tasks.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests the revision of the State budget to include housing law in the rights-based household ENØK grant scheme.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a strategy to increase forest protection in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e2465	The president pointed out that under the framework areas some of the keywords relating to ‘transferability’ and ‘useful under’ were not included in the setting. The President requests authorisation to rectify this situation and to press for a proper adjustment. No one has voted against it. The Committee had ceased: A Frame area 12 [[Oil and Energy]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e5872	The Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e5889	Here the President will make it clear that during the debate a wrong setting was made aware of. The right thing to do is to have revenue below III. Furthermore, it should be under attack. 3595 entry 1 is replaced by ‘increased by NOK 57 900000 to NOK 59 900000’. So the amount is going to be in millions of dollars, and the amount is going to be set at $900,000. However, the change amount of NOK 2000000 is correct as stated in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-05.ana.ud1224e7181	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
