ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e116	The representative Ingebjørg Amanda Vosskensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Central Party Group for the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete as from 5 June and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: That application shall be dealt with without delay and shall be accepted. The representative of the goods, Jenny Følling, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e139	Jenny Følling is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e153	At the end of this year, we are on the threshold of a new epoch in Afghanistan. The involvement of the international community through the NATO force ISAF ends. New forms of cooperation take over. Let me briefly remind you of the starting point that we got involved 13 years ago. The terrorist attack on the United States on 11 September 2001 was an attack on our values and threatened our common security. It required a common answer. It was the overall responsibility of the international community to ensure that Afghanistan could no longer be a haven for international terrorism. We've reached that goal. I would like to thank all Norwegian officials and women, military and civil, for the efforts they have made. I would particularly like to pay tribute to and remember the Northmen who lost their lives in service for Norway in Afghanistan. There can be no doubt that the international military and civil efforts in Afghanistan have been significant. At the same time, we must dare to ask the question of something could have been done differently. When the ISAF operation ends at the end of the year, the time is ripe to carry out an evaluation of our overall efforts in Afghanistan. Equally important is to find out how we can best assist in the future. As the Afghans themselves take over responsibility for the country's security, our efforts will focus more on contributing to the civil development of the country. In April of this year, Afghanistan conducted its first round of elections to the new President and the provincial council. It gave reason to hope and showed that it has developed a great public commitment to politics in Afghanistan. The candidates put up in TV debates. Women and men flocked to election meetings all over the country. They defied the Taliban's terror and threats to anyone who supported the elections. More than seven million Afghans — more than half of those entitled to vote — went to the elections in the provincial council and the first round of the presidential elections. It is not just an increase in comparison with the 2009 elections. It is also an electoral participation in line with many mature democracies. The almost seven million voters who voted, refused to be frightened. And the youth, who is the majority of the voters and is the future of Afghanistan, also took an active part. The choice was real, even if it wasn't perfect. The interim reports of both Afghan and international observers say that electoral fraud occurred but to a lesser extent than in the 2009 presidential elections. In some places the security situation prevented people from voting. Human life was lost. Nevertheless – the Afghan people made the election their own. Afghan security forces were well-managed. The Afghan people deserve commendation for the elections. Now waits for the second election round. When the new president and government come into place, it will mark the first transfer of power from one elected president to another in Afghanistan. It will also indicate that the country has taken another step on the way from being a society governed by warlords, tribes and clans to becoming a country more governed by elected politicians. It gives cause for optimism, although we also have to be prepared for setbacks. At the 2010 NATO summit in Lisbon, the ISAF countries and Afghanistan agreed on a gradual transfer of security responsibilities for Afghanistan to Afghan security forces by the end of 2014. It was at the time sharing opinions about how wise it was to set a date for the closure of ISAF. Today, we can state that NATO's 2010 decision was correct. Setting a deadline leading to a clear plan for the transfer of security responsibilities and the establishment of the Afghan security forces. Given what we know today, the decision should probably have been taken at an even earlier time and made the Afghans responsible for their own security. Many thought that the Afghan security forces would not stand up to the rebels. This has proved so far to be wrong. There is no clear evidence that the rebels have strengthened themselves. Afghan ownership and solutions are becoming reality. Last summer, the Afghans themselves took over the management of the security of the country. The closure of ISAF is well under way and will be completed by the end of the year. ISAF is now primarily concerned with the guidance and training of Afghan security forces. Norway will maintain the decided contribution to ISAF out of this year. Although ISAF ends, the international community will not leave Afghanistan to itself. NATO will continue to be present if the next President of Afghanistan signs the necessary agreements with the United States and NATO. President Karzai has chosen not to do this during his period. This created considerable uncertainty about the international military presence. However, the two Presidential candidates concerned have stated that they will both sign the agreements quickly. NATO's planned operation in Afghanistan, Resolute Support Mission, will not be a fighting force. It will only have as its mandate to contribute to the training of Afghan forces. The Government aims at Norway participating in this operation but will, of course, consult the bodies of Storting before Norway commits. The Minister of Defence will say more about this in his statement. The fact that President Obama has now set the limits for the US military presence in 2015 and 2016 has made the picture clearer, both for Allies and for Afghan authorities. Norway shall be a long-term development partner for Afghanistan. We committed ourselves to this through the strategic partnership agreement between our two countries in 2013. Norway has promised 750 million. kr in assistance to Afghanistan per year from 2017. In 2013, the country received the second most of all of our cooperating countries. Since 2001, Norway has totaled more than 7.6 billion. kr to Afghanistan. Norwegian aid to Afghanistan concentrates on three key sectors for the future of the country, firstly good governance, democracy and human rights, which are a prerequisite for all developments. In line with the government's ambition to support democracy and human rights, Norway contributes 102 million to the electoral process. kr over three years. We also support Afghan and international institutions working for human rights in general and women's rights in particular. Women's rights and the fight against corruption are two considerations that permeate all our long-term assistance. The second sector of Norwegian aid focuses more on education. It's in line with the government's broader bet on the field. We are now also promoting the dissemination of education in development policy. The third area of assistance in Afghanistan is rural development, with programmes for policy development, social development and industrial development in rural areas. The vast majority of the population's livelihood and the country's value creation come from the agricultural sector. Our ambition is to make assistance more effective in achieving concrete results. Norway has therefore reduced the number of partners and projects in Afghanistan. The World Bank's Multi-stakeholder Fund, Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, is a pillar of our development cooperation with Afghanistan. The fund receives 750 million. DKK over three years and is the largest individual beneficiary of Norwegian funds. The Fund supports the priorities and programmes of the Afghan authorities. The Fund has built up a comprehensive control system and has much better control over the use of funds than what we alone can do as individual countries. The need for good control procedures clearly demonstrates the evaluation of the UN Development Fund, UNDP. The evaluation pointed to a number of serious weaknesses in UNDP’s country programme in Afghanistan, such as: the need for better coordination, organisation and performance focus. This has been duly mentioned in the media lately. Norway is a critical donor. We make, and will continue to make, demands on the organisations we support. It is important that UNDP management takes the criticism seriously. There is a need for UNDP in Afghanistan. We must therefore all cooperate to ensure that the UNDP and UN carry out their activities in a sound and sustainable manner. For seven years, Norway had a special responsibility for security in the Faryab province, where by October 2012 we had our Provincial Reconstruction Team, PRT. Over 8,500 Northmen have served in Afghanistan. Although our military forces are now out of the province, Norway continues to support Faryab. Last year we signed agreements with several international non-governmental organisations on new three-year projects, focusing on the region. The government is also continuing humanitarian and development assistance through Norwegian non-governmental organisations with a long seas in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is one of the most difficult countries in the world to provide assistance. It also confirms the many evaluations of international assistance to Afghanistan in recent years. The country is struggling with a high degree of corruption and a low level of public administration, capacity and competence. Safety challenges also make it difficult to follow the assistance funds up to the end-user. With the support of the international community, the Afghans themselves have succeeded in building state and administrative structures. At the same time, we also see that the large sums given through assistance and military engagement may have contributed to corruption. This is a big dilemma. We also see that Afghanistan today does not have sufficient capacity to use all aid in a sound and effective way. In the long term, therefore, less money overall and more targeted capacity building can be a solution. We want to make higher demands on the results of our assistance. Norway, together with other donors through the World Bank and other organisations, has contributed to a sharp increase in the number of children attending school each year. In 2001, one million children attended school. In 2012, the figure was about eight million. Almost no girls went to school in 2001, while the proportion today is 41pst. But at the same time, we know that the quality of education is too low. We therefore contribute to improving quality. In line with the government's commitment, we will also support higher education, vocational education and higher education. We want to place great emphasis on girls' ability to take higher education in Afghanistan. Assistance should only be a contribution to the country’s own development measures. Afghanistan is no exception. Afghanistan must live up to its obligations in terms of good governance, anti-corruption work, strengthening women's rights and democratic elections, which are in the process of being implemented. This has been committed by the Afghans to the donors at the Tokyo Conference in 2012, and that is the prerequisite for further cooperation in assistance. Norway cut off this year's aid by 50 million. kr due to a lack of follow-up on the Afghan side. Since then, the Afghan Government has provided many of the concrete measures. A new ministerial meeting is planned for the autumn between Afghanistan and the donor countries. We expect Afghanistan to have delivered on what they promised in Tokyo. In addition, the new government of the country must commit itself to further strengthening women’s rights and to introducing anti-corruption measures to ensure a basis for economic growth. We're going to maintain a contribution of 750 million. kr annually until 2017, as we promised in Tokyo, we need to see a clearer willingness to change and a greater power of action than we have seen under the current Afghan government. In parallel with long-term development assistance, we maintain humanitarian aid at a high level. The humanitarian crisis is reinforced by the ongoing conflict. Many Afghans have ended up in slum areas around Kabul and other cities where they receive neither health care nor school for their children. Others live in areas of ongoing conflict — including those without access to health and school services. At the same time, there are still three million Afghan refugees in neighbouring countries. Many families want to return to their home country, but refuse because of a fragile safety situation and lack of jobs. Developments in the security situation have led to more difficult working conditions for local and international relief workers. Several local aid workers have been killed. We strongly condemn these killings. Such actions also affect those who need our help most. Afghanistan has built state institutions that increasingly ensure stability, democracy and services to the population. Education is one example, another is health. In 2001, Afghanistan had some of the world’s lowest health indicators. The country lacked a primary health care system in the districts. National access to primary health services has increased from 9 pst. by the population in 2003 to 85 pst. in 2008, according to the World Bank. These figures have been discussed, but at least they are the figures the World Bank is operating on. Infant mortality, child mortality and maternal mortality have been reduced, but there is still a very long way to go. The Afghans must now concentrate on this and, as we will support, these results must remain standing. There is little help in providing education for girls if the girls are refused to go to school. It does little to contribute to female access to universities if women do not get a job or participate in political processes, or if engaged young people are at risk of being killed in terrorist attacks because they want to contribute to their country's future. Our most important contribution is to help Afghans find lasting solutions for their own country. Afghanistan will have to become much less dependent on foreign aid in the long term. Afghanistan receives about 6 billion annually. U.S. dollars in aid. More than half of the country's operating budget is financed from abroad. Own resources go largely to the security sector. This is not sustainable over time. It is therefore essential that Afghanistan facilitates growth in its own economy. They must create jobs and income in their own country. The mining industry has great potential, but it will require both peace and investment to launch such an industry. Afghanistan needs to establish a law and a law that promotes private investment, ensuring that taxes and taxes are paid, enabling Afghan banks to operate internationally and combating corruption. All of this is necessary to ensure economic growth that is greater than it is expected to be this year. Today, banking and tax systems are permeated by corruption. Without a vigilance for reform and a strong change of attitude to corruption, Afghanistan will remain dependent on aid. These are significant challenges for the new Afghan government, which is expected to take over in August. The positive thing is that both presidential candidates seem to be aware of the challenges and say that they will carry out comprehensive reforms. At the same time, this is an important reminder that Afghanistan still needs international support and assistance. Without international cooperation and long-term international involvement, Afghanistan will not be able to get up. However, we must be allowed to question whether there is sufficient consistency between the enormous assistance provided and the results achieved. Some of the explanation may be that the unsolved conflict in the country has led to an excessive focus on military strategies and instruments, and that this may have been at the expense of good development. This is trying to change both the Afghans themselves and the donors now. As public administration capacity and competences are strengthened and modernised, and not least as the fight against corruption escalates, the objective is to improve the effectiveness of assistance. It'll take time to change this. We have to be critical drivers to make such a change. It is also necessary to take a force against the very large black economy. Most serious is opium production. According to the UN, the agricultural area increased for the cultivation of opium poppies by 36 pst. from 2012 to 2013. The total production increase was 49 pst. The conflict in the country has contributed to a downward trend in the fight against opium cultivation. This has led to increased access to drugs both in Afghanistan and in other countries. The revenues generated by drug activities are also used for corruption, terrorist financing and other illegal activities. These problems must be taken seriously. Here, there has to be a broad front effort. On the one hand, the fight against drug networks is equally important, but it is equally important to contribute to rural development and modernisation, so that there are good alternatives to opium production. The production of saffron is an example of an alternative product that is produced with great luck in some places. Afghanistan's huge expenditure on the army and the police is another key issue when we talk about economic sustainability. The total number of security forces is about 350 000. This places Afghanistan on the list of countries with the 20 largest security forces in the world measured in terms of number of persons. With the ongoing conflict, there is no doubt that large security forces are needed to keep the uprising down, but in the longer term, a country with a limited economy cannot cope with such a high and cost-intensive security force. Therefore, Afghans with international financial contributions are planning to reduce their strength to 228 000 in 2017. The challenge related to the size and funding of the Afghan security forces is, of course, linked to the need to resolve the conflict with its insurgents. The involvement of the population around the elections showed that the desire for development, reform and democracy is strong. I think we can safely establish that the majority of the population does not want in any way to return to a Taliban regime. The choice is in many ways a settlement with the Taliban and the organisation. The successful election has shown that the Afghan political system has passed an important test. The Taliban must deal with this in a way so far that the movement has not been willing to do so. Many suggest that a new Afghan president can take over the government after a relatively successful and legitimate election, as I pointed out, which gives hope that a peace process with the Taliban can begin. Such a process is necessary in order to create peace and stability in Afghanistan. The aim must be for the Taliban and other rebel groups to find their place within a democratic system through negotiations. It is assumed that they work within a constitutional framework and respect human rights. But we don't have to be naive. The Taliban will be able to continue its violent fight for a long time in the future if it chooses it. It will therefore not be easy to get a real peace process going, and we cannot expect rapid results. Nevertheless, perhaps the recent exchange of prisoners between the United States and the Taliban may be the first step towards something greater. For the first time, a concrete outcome was achieved. Such a peace process must be owned and led by the Afghans themselves. From the Norwegian side, we will be able to be supporters. We will call for a process that is inclusive, especially for women, and that respects human rights. For decades, war and conflict have made Afghanistan a barrier to natural economic activity in the region. However, Afghanistan has the potential to become a trade bridge again, both north and south and between east and west. But it assumes that the countries of the region see the self-interest in cooperating and facilitating increased trade and investment. Norway has helped to strengthen this regional thinking through the so-called Heart of Asia cooperation established in Istanbul in 2011. Since then, cooperation has grown in depth and breadth. There are now regular high-level political meetings, agreement to design a regional interest platform and initial practical cooperation on issues of common interest. It is positive that China has undertaken to organise the next meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs in Istanbul in August this year. Norway’s role in the process is to contribute to political dialogue and provide practical support where we have competence. An example is a conference in Islamabad last month, where Norwegian experts contributed to the transfer of competence to the region on the management of natural disasters. The results of Istanbul cooperation and other regional cooperation forums have increased contact between countries. But cooperation structures themselves do not remove fundamental problems. Mistrust among countries remains significant. The sum of cross-interests is large. For many, Afghanistan is primarily a scene for national ambitions. The ability and willingness to cooperate on common challenges are limited. It will therefore take time, at best, to build a working partnership. I initially mentioned the forthcoming evaluation of Norwegian Afghanistan exposure. The majority has decided to carry out an overall evaluation of the overall Norwegian effort in Afghanistan. The government is now preparing a mandate for the evaluation. It is the government's objective that the mandate of the evaluation committee should be broad. The Norwegian and international involvement in Afghanistan has been special, both in its origin and in its implementation. The exposure started with a terrorist attack on a NATO member. It was natural and correct for Norway, NATO and a broad coalition of countries to join forces to prevent Afghanistan from being used again as a platform for a new terrorist attack. At the same time, when we go into such a difficult task in such a complicated part of the world, we have to go through our combined efforts and look at where we have succeeded, and why. We also need to consider whether we should and could have done something different. In addition, the report should identify experiences that we should have with us in our further work on Afghanistan. The government intends to appoint the sample after the summer, and the sample will start its work on 1 January 2015. The report of the Committee shall be delivered by 31 December of the same year. The size will be consulted on the further work. Afghanistan remains one of the poorest and most conflict-affected countries in the world. Our hope is that the country – with its own efforts and with regional and international support – will once in the future be able to move from being a poor developing country to becoming a country capable of standing on its own feet. This means that we maintain long-term support in cooperation with Afghan authorities and international partners. But there can be no doubt that the responsibility for Afghanistan's development lies with its own political leaders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e262	When we, together with our allies and partners, decided to engage in Afghanistan almost 13 years ago, our clear and overall goal was to prevent Al-Qaeda from using Afghanistan again as a base for international terrorist action. After many years of international military intervention, Al-Qaeda is significantly weakened, while other terrorist organisations have reduced their leeway. However, it has always been a clear objective for Afghans to take over responsibility for their own security in the long term. At the 2010 NATO summit in Lisbon, the ISAF countries and Afghanistan agreed on a gradual transfer of security responsibilities to Afghan security forces by the end of this year. This step-by-step process is also referred to as the transition process. To achieve this goal, we have made a significant effort, with increasing priority being given to building, training and support to Afghan security forces. This is a very complicated and demanding task. Although we, and all the other NATO and ISAF countries, are now stepping down our military contribution in Afghanistan, our mission is still not finished. On Tuesday and yesterday, the Minister of Defence meeting was held in Brussels. I underlined at the ISAF meeting there, as I have also done before, that we are still talking about the ISAF operation in the present – not in the past. We're still making heavy and substantial contributions, there's still a risk to our soldiers, there's still some demanding operations, and we're conducting mentoring and training now. Many may still be demanding and challenging in months to come, and it is very important that all countries now keep their attention to the last part of the ISAF mission. This is, potentially, one of the more demanding phases of the mission. I was in Afghanistan to celebrate May 17th with our soldiers serving in Kabul and in Mazar-e Sharif. This was my second visit as Minister of Defence and my fourth visit in total. In Kabul, I was at the embassy, where I met both soldiers and civilians serving in various places in Afghanistan, and in Mazar-e Sharif I used the opportunity to carry out a memorial to honor our ten Norwegian soldiers who have lost their lives in Afghanistan. Such a visit provides a basis for many reflections. The freedom and prosperity we experience are no obvious thing for everyone. We are reminded that democracy and human rights are challenged daily by many teams, and that sometimes we are required to stand up and defend the values we mark on our Constitutional Day. In line with the ongoing transmission process, the role of ISAF has gradually changed. From the fact that there were 150 000 ISAF forces in Afghanistan, there are now less than 51 000 soldiers in Afghanistan. Initially, there was a fighting force, but the focus has gradually turned towards ensuring the security of the population. This has taken place at the same time as facilitating and supporting the development of Afghan national security forces. This part of the process has been completed in practice, as the construction of the Afghan security forces at the nearest stage has been completed. At the same time, the Afghan security forces, supported by ISAF, have assumed responsibility for the security of their own population. The ongoing efforts are aimed at improving the quality of the forces in the form of advice, training and support to the Afghan police and military forces. This is the main challenge to succeed in the final and decisive phase of the transition process. However, there is a concern that the Afghan security forces are still – and will be in the future – dependent on NATO support for the implementation of their operations. In particular, these critical support capacities are necessary to operate independently. This includes, inter alia: areas related to intelligence, aeroplanes and helicopters, engineers and sanitation. Continued work on the further development of the capabilities and competences of security forces is therefore necessary. Nevertheless, we should not underestimate that there has been a significant positive development. Yesterday, the commander of the ISAF forces, General Dunford, could report at the ISAF meeting that there has been a major change in the way of meetings between ISAF and Afghan security forces. In the past, it was largely ISAF that held and had the word during the meetings. Now it is that ISAF is invited, but hardly says anything, because the meeting and organisation are led by the Afghan security forces. It's a good and positive sign. Today, the police and the forces count about 350 000 people in total. In the long term, the security forces are planned to reduce to about 228 000 persons. It will take the form of natural take-offs and will be realized at the earliest by the end of 2017-2018. This reduction assumes that the safety situation allows it. A significant prerequisite for the maintenance and further development of the Afghan security forces is sufficient funding. This is a very critical point. It has been estimated that the safety forces will need approximately: 4,1 B.C.E. dollars per year in international financing. The United States will be the biggest contributor. The international contributions to Afghan security forces go through two channels: the Afghan National Army Trust Fund, for the defence sector and the UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme, for the police. At the 2012 Chicago meeting, the Allies and ISAF partners confirmed that they will contribute to a comprehensive funding mechanism for the Afghan security forces. This is a work that is in progress. In practice, it means ensuring the financial base and ensuring funding over time – also beyond 2017-2018. It is not expected that Afghans will be able to finance their own security forces for a long time on an independent basis. The main task of the Norwegian military ISAF operation is today and for the next six months to provide advice and training to the Afghan Special Police Unit in Kabul, the so-called Crisis Response Unit. Norway also provides staff officers with the ISAF command structure and instructors with the various training institutions of the Afghan army. Today we have about 180 people in Afghanistan. On 10 May, our police advisory team, in the framework of the Nordic-Baltic Transition Support Unit in Mazar-e-Sharip, completed its mission. At the same time, the transfer of our national management and support element to Kabul is being prepared. This means that the Norwegian main effort in North Afghanistan has been completed. In addition to providing limited but high priority military strength contributions, Norway is also a major contributor to the financing of security forces. From 2015, approximately 90 million will be planned. of the civil aid funds channelled to the Afghan police. The aid to the Afghan army is maintained at the same level as today, above the defence budget, i.e. about 60 million. kr annually for the period 2015-2017. Despite good progress and positive experience in the transfer of security responsibilities, military efforts need to be continued beyond 2014. Advice, training and assistance to Afghan security forces and ministries of security are still needed. Based on the positive experience of the ISAF operation, current partner nations, including Sweden and Finland, will also make a stronger contribution to the operation, which is planned to start after 2014. It was last confirmed by the two countries during the ISAF meeting which took place in connection with the NATO Minister of Defence meeting yesterday. However, the planning of the Resolute Support mission operation is complex and has a demanding planning horizon. Delayed Afghan signing of the negotiated bilateral security agreement between the United States and Afghanistan has for a long time halted the further planning process, both in the United States and NATO. In parallel with the establishment of a bilateral security agreement between the United States and Afghanistan, a similar agreement is reached between NATO and Afghanistan. Recently, the United States announced that they will contribute 8,800 soldiers in the NATO-led Resolute Support mission from January 2015. However, an American premise is that other NATO and partner nations also make appropriate strength contributions. In line with this, the Resolute Support mission will be able to provide a regional coverage in approx. one year. A halving of the US forces, planned to be implemented by the end of 2015, will mean that the main effort in the final phase of the Resolute Support mission will be concentrated in the Kabul-Bagram area. This will be the situation until the planned end of the operation at the end of 2016. It is also expected that the local and regional lines of conflict, which have traditionally influenced Afghan society, will be able to re-approach more and more. The signing of the bilateral security agreement with the United States and the status agreement with NATO is an absolute prerequisite for the realisation of the Resolute Support mission. It is expected that the new president will sign the agreements with the United States and NATO when he is in place – something President Karzai has not wanted to do. Both the remaining two presidential candidates, Ghana and Abdullah, have informally stated that they will sign the bilateral security agreement with the United States and the status agreement with NATO during their first week of power. But as the Foreign Minister was in the room, this is still a little ahead of time and is not expected to happen until early August. This means that the planning horizon for all countries, perhaps especially for small nations such as Norway, is extra demanding, because there is extensive work to be done, both on the staff and on the material side, in order to plan for a contribution in Afghanistan. Like other NATO countries and partners, we also plan for all options, i.e. for both the zero option and a still limited presence. When the government is ready with these assessments, the Storting will be consulted in the usual way. As a responsible and credible contributor, Norway should be prepared to continue military engagement in Afghanistan. An approved operational plan, together with a force request for NATO, will form the basis for a political process on a possible strength contribution to the Resolute Support Mission. As I have explained in the bodies of Storting in the past, there is in particular one option that works if there is participation in the Resolute Support mission. The Norwegian Special Force Contribution in Kabul has already been decided to continue in 2014. This, together with other smaller contributions in the Kabul area, will be a good starting point for the possible continuation of Norwegian participation in the Resolute Support mission. Such concentration of the Norwegian forces into a central geographical area will also provide the necessary national freedom of action for any adjustment to the current Resolute Support Mission operating concept. That means that at the end of this year we have gone from being present in three different areas, Faryad, Mazar-e-Sharif and Kabul, to being present only in Kabul at the end of this year. Driving geographical concentration is also in line with what many other countries have done in their strength reduction process. It is still unclear what will happen to the forces and presence of the other countries. Everyone now depends on the signing of these agreements. When the ISAF operation ends on 31 December of this year, we have been engaged in Afghanistan for nearly 13 years. When the international community intervened in the country in 2001, the overall objective was well anchored in a unanimous UN Security Council. It was a wish to prevent Afghanistan from remaining a haven for terrorist organisations. Together with the security effort, civil assistance to the country's democratic and peaceful development became an important part of the commitment to stabilisation. In line with the decision of the United Kingdom on 25 February of this year, the Government decided to start preparing an overall evaluation of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. The evaluation shall review and draw lessons from Norway’s civil and military involvement in the country between 2001 and 2014. It is important to stress that evaluations and summaries have been carried out on the part of the Defence Agency, in the context of the progress of the contribution and in the context of takeover from one quota to another. There has been a lot of experience transfer along the way, and there are valuable experiences, which are both taken care of in the Defence and become important input into the evaluation work. It is also important to stress, in the context of the evaluation, that our efforts in Afghanistan have been carried out in an international framework, i.e.: that our efforts have been and are part of a larger overall NATO strategy with its objectives, closely coordinated with the efforts of the international community. This means that the evaluation must naturally take account of this overall perspective. Finally, it is in place to express our great gratitude to the more than 8,700 Norwegian officials and women who have contributed to the ISAF operation. In this context, our thoughts also go to the families and friends of those who lost their lives in service to Norway in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e331	The President will propose that statements on developments in Afghanistan and Norway’s involvement in the country be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e349	On August 6 next year it's 70 years since the nuclear bomb was released over Hiroshima. For both Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the bomb has meant a continuous environmental and health disaster every year. Next year, there is also a new non-proliferation supervisory conference in New York. Before that, Austria is organising a conference — as a follow-up to Oslo and Mexico — on the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. For Stortinget, it is important to know what is going to be Norway’s and Norwegian policies, both in front of Austria and in front of the 2015 Supervisory Conference. The fight against nuclear weapons has always been a focus in Norway. Measurements tell us that over 90 pst. believe we should work for an international ban on nuclear weapons. In 2008, the Stortinget unanimously said that the goal is a nuclear-free world, with the signatures as case rapporteur – in brackets noted. We have a political and moral responsibility to contribute to the degradation, non-proliferation and complete elimination of nuclear weapons. The previous government worked to get into the disarmament and non-proliferation regime the disastrous humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons and the obligations of all countries to comply with international humanitarian law. The humanitarian approach is important to provide the political basis for a future ban on nuclear weapons on a legally binding instrument of international law. Humanitarian law prohibits the use of weapons which do not distinguish civil from military. Respect for the fundamental principles of humanitarian law is the commitment to complete disarmament, including in the case of nuclear weapons. Nuclear weapons are the only technology humans have created that enables us to destroy all life on earth. The consequences of the use of nuclear weapons are fatal, both in the case of wild use, in the case of terrorism and in the case of accidents. A nuclear explosion will have immediate humanitarian consequences of a dimension that we cannot imagine. Norway is today – and has been for a long time – a nuclear-free territory, which has had unison support since 1957. A reversal of a nuclear-free Norway can be changed by a simple majority in the Storting, which I don't think is going to happen. Therefore, there is a proposal to amend the Basic Law Section 25 for the current period, namely the Constitutional proposal 11 for 2011–2012 to prohibit the production, introduction, use and deployment of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil. Several other countries have already legislated this principle. The fundamental prohibition of nuclear weapons on Norwegian soil will also provide us with an important basis for our international driving role in international disarmament and non-proliferation. Meeting the ambition of a nuclear-free world will require global global efforts in several arenas. Norway played a central role during the 2010 Conference of Supervisors. In spite of shortcomings, for all things: it became a final document that fixed the goal of a nuclear-free world. There was agreement on a 64-point action plan, which covers the main parts of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. The final document also referred to the five-point plan of the UN Secretary-General, such as: Including negotiations on a convention against nuclear weapons — and the final document referred to the disastrous humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons and the obligations of all countries to comply with humanitarian law. In November 2011, the International Red Cross adopted a resolution requiring 187 national committees to ask their governments to contribute to a ban on nuclear weapons, based on the human suffering caused by the use of nuclear weapons. In March 2013, the then Norwegian government organized a conference in Oslo to put the spotlight on nuclear weapons as a humanitarian problem. Last autumn, Mexico had a follow-up conference, and Austria has taken this stick. These three countries also took an initiative at the 2011 UN General Assembly to bring the Geneva Disarmament Conference out of the dead water – to say the least – it has been in existence for a very long time. The disarmament conference has rigorous procedural rules, consensus requirements and complete lack of transparency. Norway has been working systematically for years to reduce the importance of nuclear weapons in NATO. We got something in NATO's last strategic concept, but it would have been desirable if NATO had declared that first use is no longer relevant. It is also appropriate to mention Norwegian-British cooperation on the verification of nuclear disarmament. The aim is to identify practical and technical prerequisites for non-nuclear countries to be able to control the compliance of nuclear countries with their disarmament obligations. It is also positive with the agreement between the United States and Russia. The two nuclear powers still have more than 90 pst. by the nuclear arsenals of the world. The Oslo conference in 2013 became an initiative that has recently gained weight in the disarmament process. In the summary of the conference in Nayarit, Mexico, it was written that we have reached a point of no return. It is expected that in Austria, countries will discuss the process further. We'll have the supervisory conference in a year. I think we have to get on the table what disaster nuclear weapons will mean. for people for the climate for the organisation of society for the economy The work to remove nuclear weapons is humanitarian policy and part of our civil protection and our anti-terrorism work. The reduction of the world's nuclear arsenals is also climate policy. Nuclear war will be the worst environmental disaster. Today's nuclear weapons are many, many, many times larger than the Hiroshima bomb. Nuclear weapons are the ultimate weapons of mass destruction. For the last 40 years, we've had international agreements that ban and eliminate inhuman weapons: anti-personnel mines, class weapons, biological weapons, small arms, chemical weapons. Norway has either been an initiator, a driver or an active supporter. For example, chemical weapons are governed by a convention guarded by a Hague Secretariat – we remember the last peace prize. Nuclear weapons, on the other hand, are not regulated in any way. On 17 April 2012, Snorre Serigstad Valen had an interpellation in the Stortinget to Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, who said: «This should not be controversial. I can hardly imagine that it is possible to meet the Non-Proliferation Agreement's objectives of a world without nuclear weapons without a legally binding instrument regulating the conditions." My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How will the Minister for Foreign Affairs continue to work on the humanitarian trail towards Austria in December, but above all in front of the Conference of Supervisors in a year’s time – and thus continue the initiative taken by Norway, which has given increasing weight to international efforts in the disarmament and elimination of nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e412	First, let me thank Mr Nybakk for an important initiative and for putting a spotlight on nuclear weapons. Despite the global reduction of nuclear arsenals by 80 pst. Since the Cold War, there are still 17 000 such weapons worldwide. That means that it's far to the vision we all share: a world free of nuclear weapons. With the Oslo Conference on the Humanitarian Impact of Nuclear Weapons in 2013, the previous government took a very important initiative to document the cruel humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons. The humanitarian initiative has provided increased knowledge, renewed interest in discussing the role of nuclear weapons and placed humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons on the international agenda. The government will continue the important work the previous government started, actively working to ensure that the humanitarian initiative will contribute to further progress in the process of disarmament and to bring us closer to the vision of a nuclear-free world. The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction is one of the leading threats to our security. It will be very serious if new countries enter the ranks of the nuclear powers or if nuclear weapons end up in the hands of terrorists. Such perspectives reinforce my conviction that the work on disarmament and non-proliferation requires long-term efforts along several tracks. Norway will continue to be an active driver in this work. After the end of the Cold War, we experienced considerable progress in disarmament. Countries that Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan and South Africa gave up their weapons. The US and Russia agreed on reciprocal reductions in the 1994 START I Agreement. Globally, nuclear arsenals, as already mentioned, have been reduced by 80 pst. since it's called the war. Further reductions on the Russian and American sides have been facilitated by the new START agreement of 2011. A number of other measures have been put in place to strengthen the control of nuclear material, including: within the framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA. The nuclear programmes for North Korea and Iran remain of great concern. The interim agreement of November last year between Iran, the EU, China, Russia and the United States was a promising step. A deadline has been set for 20 July this summer in order to achieve a permanent agreement. There are very important negotiations, which will define much of this issue in the future. It is essential, as I said, that negotiations end in a long-term agreement ensuring that Iran's nuclear programme is exclusively peaceful. If we don't want to prevent new countries from entering the nuclear power lines, it can cause others to follow. We are facing a danger where the whole Middle East and the Arab world can end up with more countries getting nuclear weapons, and that is the worst possible outcome. Unfortunately, several nuclear weapons states have arrived since the entry into force of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Non-proliferation NPT is the overall framework for disarmament and non-proliferation. Work under the NPT has been challenging for a longer time. An action plan for the following five years was not agreed at the 2005 Conference of Supervisors. There are doubts about the political foundation of the NPT, which is that nuclear weapons countries commit themselves to disarmament and that others commit themselves not to acquire nuclear weapons. It is in this agreement that the vision of a world free from nuclear weapons is anchored. That's why we put so much emphasis on avoiding weakening this crucial platform for disarmament and non-proliferation. The 2010 Supervisory Conference was important for restoring confidence in the NPT Agreement, which also provided the basis for the Humanitarian Initiative. Norway played a central role in the implementation of an action plan. In this, the goal of a nuclear-free world is unequivocally set. This action plan provided a perspective on the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of nuclear detonation, either as a result of wild use or an accident, as well as the importance of all states respecting current public and humanitarian considerations. To the representative of Nybakk, I can state that Norway will take an active part in Vienna, and that we are in ongoing dialogue with Austria on the organisation of the agenda for the conference. It is important that the Vienna Conference contributes to consolidating the humanitarian initiative towards the Conference of Supervisors. It is also important that the conference has a device to ensure broad participation and ownership. The humanitarian consequences of a nuclear detonation affect all countries. Further progress requires the participation of both nuclear and other actors. Austria has an important task ahead of it. There's a lot of consideration to take. Our clear advice has been to focus on what has been the basis of the humanitarian initiative of the Oslo Conference, progress in the work of the NPT. The aim of the humanitarian initiative to which the representative Nybakk refers, and the trade conferences in Oslo and Mexico, have been to obtain facts about the consequences of the use of nuclear weapons, what they will be. The scenarios the experts draw are scary. In Oslo, the President of the International Red Cross Committee concluded that the consequences of a single detonation would be so extensive that there is no meaningful capacity for dealing with the humanitarian consequences. The research also shows that there have been several near-accidents. The use of such weapons affects us all. We can imagine the immediate consequences. In the longer term, this will have major consequences for, inter alia: health, climate, food production and migration for generations to come. The humanitarian initiative has contributed to the establishment of a fact-based understanding of the consequences of the use of these weapons, or a detonation as a result of an accident, will have for all of us. The broad consensus has renewed interest in achieving real progress towards the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. There are many views on how the goal can be achieved. The situation of the established disarmament processes is, as stated, demanding and locked down. North Korea and Iran have nuclear programmes that give rise to considerable concern. The risk of dissemination to new actors is real. In a situation where there is a lack of political basis, negotiations on a Convention prohibiting nuclear weapons are not realistic. The possibilities of avoiding dispersal and disarmament and thus gradually approaching the visions of a nuclear-free world are realistic work on the political basis of the established systems of this work. Hopefully, at a later stage, a political basis may arise to start negotiations on a convention that regulates the conditions of a world free of nuclear weapons. At the same time, I believe that there is real progress in established processes and structures, and in particular the Non-Proliferation Agreement, which provides the political basis for this to happen. We're going to help create this base in different multilateral forums. The purpose of the humanitarian initiative has not been to launch an alternative trail outside the Non-Proliferation Agreement. This also caught up with Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide at the conference in Oslo. He underlined the importance of the Non-Proliferation Agreement and indicated that the Conference was not a substitute for other processes. The aim has been to create momentum within the NPT towards the 2015 Conference of Supervisors. It's a strategic assessment I share. We are now working to further anchor the humanitarian perspective in the Non-Proliferation Agreement and to get an action plan that sets a clear framework for real progress. The preparatory meeting in New York in May gave a hint at the challenges of the coming year. It is not possible to reach agreement on a common set of recommendations for next year’s Conference of Supervisors. But it was positive that there was broad support for the humanitarian initiative. It is important that both the United States and the United Kingdom focus on the consequences of a nuclear detonation. The humanitarian initiative has renewed its commitment to disarmament and non-proliferation. We're going to build on that so that we can achieve real results on the way to the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e444	Let me first underline what the Foreign Minister said in his reply – and also thank him for the answer – that it is important that there is no doubt about the basis for the NPT, and that before the previous Supervisory Conference, too, it was committed to restoring confidence in the NPT, and that it is also important in the run-up to the Supervisory Conference next year. Then I am very happy to have a very clear assurance and confirmation that Norway will take an active part in Vienna, and to have contact with Austria on how to follow the humanitarian trail further. The humanitarian initiative on nuclear weapons, which Norway started with the historic conference in Oslo in March 2013, has created new energy in the work of a world free of nuclear weapons, and I noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs also used words in that direction. I would like to stress so strongly that it is this track that should now also be driven forward to the Conference of Supervisors. It is important that this initiative continues and that Norway maintains its leadership role. In fact, it is my main message to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that Norway maintains its leadership role. It would be very unfortunate if Norway did not support Austria, which has taken on the humanitarian stick. I would also like to stress that Norway has great credibility in referring to the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons. So, of course, this can also be done within the established system. By this we mean within the non-proliferation regime, that is, where you recreate and ensure confidence in the Non-proliferation Agreement. So I want to repeat what I said in my statement that at some point we have to put in place an instrument of international law based on the humanitarian principles, an instrument of international law that will ban nuclear weapons. It is important that we stress once again that our goal is a world free of nuclear weapons, and that we can also use the Non-Proliferation Agreement to work actively in order to obtain such a legally binding instrument. It is also a challenge for the Minister of Foreign Affairs here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e459	I want to repeat what I said about sharing the vision of a nuclear-free world. I and the government support the work started by the previous government in creating a much greater understanding of the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons. An important principle in the international law of war is to distinguish between fighters and civilians. With the use of nuclear weapons, there is no way – everyone loses. We know from the examples Hiroshima and Nagasaki that there are still wounds that haven't grown in Japan. We know that the consequences of using nuclear weapons are great. Norway will continue to work for a vision and that we can establish a political understanding over time in order to need a framework to implement this vision. And, as I said, hopefully at a later stage, political foundations can arise to start negotiations on a convention that regulates the conditions of a world free of nuclear weapons. We must also stress that the acute danger we are facing is that countries that do not have nuclear weapons can get them. Nuclear weapons can get terrorists into her. We need to continue the important disarmament work that was started with START I and that needs to be followed up. We hope that the conflict that has arisen between East and West does not lead to the work on further disarmament also stopping. These are important elements. At the same time, we must take into account that we are part of a defence alliance that guarantees Norway's peace and security, NATO. And as the Labour Party leader has underlined, in the strategy concept, NATO took in the vision of a nuclear-free world by U.S. President Barack Obama – very important. But at the same time, it is assumed that NATO must have nuclear weapons, according to the leader of the Workers' Party, as long as there are nuclear weapons in the world, and that NATO must build its deterrent strategy on this. It's been NATO's strategy the whole time, and Norwegian governments have been in agreement over the years. I see it as possible to have a vision of a nuclear-free world without breaking with our allies in NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e472	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing a topic that's so important, but it's so incredibly difficult to find a solution. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for being so clear in his reply to the interpellant about continuing the work that the previous government started, and not least working for a nuclear-free world. On Monday I visited the Andøya rocket station. In the face of the issue we are now discussing, in its time a research missile just triggered from Andøya almost a nuclear war. It was frightening to see how little was going to happen before President Yeltsin was told to open the nuclear case and get ready to repeat the attack from the United States. Huff and huff, I'm just saying! Next year it's 20 years since this happened and 70 years since Hiroshima and Nagasaki were wiped out by two American nuclear bombs. But despite the documented devilishness that lies in the use of nuclear weapons, the world still cannot wake up to a nuclear-free morning. Even I'm old enough to remember the nuclear tests outside Novaja Semlya in the 1950s. They feared the Finnland population, even though it was only defined as non-hazardous detonations. And if it should go as wrong as you feared, the population at least got distributed iodine tablets from the authorities if it started to hurt their throats! That was all, and at the same time almost nothing. Fear of nuclear weapons sat forever and always in those who could almost see the nuclear clouds in the distance. Fortunately, the world has moved on. We experienced decades of progress and hope that the arms spiral of the Cold War could be turned upside down. But then one. The first decade of the new century confirmed once again that reason was lost to the argument about how important nuclear weapons are to prevent war. The world was able to negotiate both the SALT I and the START II and the Land Mines Convention and halved military material in Europe between 1970 and 2000. But so narrow it in New York, and unfortunately it also became an impact on nuclear disarmament. And as we know, the Non-Proliferation Agreement Supervisory Conference in 2005 ended without results. Why it stranded, I don't have any good answers to it, but we know that you can get arms agreements if you want. In this respect, I would like to draw up the Convention on Class Weapons, where Norway did an amazing job. In recent years, we have seen that the issue of nuclear disarmament has been raised on the political agenda. The worrying thing about this is that it is only linked to the serious concerns surrounding North Korea and Iran's nuclear programmes. But there is still something positive about it, and I will therefore give tribute to Secretary of State Kerry, who, in my opinion, in the course of 2013 contributed greatly to the world gaining greater insight into Iran's nuclear programmes. There is also evidence that sanctions from the world community are working. Unfortunately, we do not achieve the same thing to North Korea. Speaking of taking responsibility and going ahead: it would have been desirable, as the interpellant also said, that NATO had declared that the alliance in its strategic concept had renounced the first use of nuclear weapons. Last week Stortinget got Meld. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The Chapter of the 1st Committee of the General Assembly, International Peace and Security refers to a high-level meeting on nuclear disarmament held last September. Then it's no surprise that the high-level meeting itself failed to negotiate a final document. The countries of the non-aligned movement, abbreviated NAM, announced that they would come back with a resolution later in the autumn. It is no exaggeration to say that the draft resolution presented was highly controversial and encountered strong resistance among the established nuclear weapons states, including in NATO circles. Out of many arguments against it, I choose to point out that many countries thought it was a little premature to launch negotiations on a nuclear convention. That's the way it can be argued. After nearly 70 years of experience of the damage caused by the use of nuclear weapons, the argument is still being used hastily. I'm not saying any more. The resolution was adopted, but many NATO countries and Russia voted against. A handful of NATO countries, including Norway, chose to refrain from excessive polarisation. But the positive thing in the debate on nuclear weapons was that the opening up of the humanitarian approach got a broad consensus, and that one sees the need to show both direct and longer-term effects of a nuclear explosion, while unfortunately also here were countries that took up protests and argued against the humanitarian trail. Understand that to those who can.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e498	First, I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. From the Right, we fully share the concern about the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons that the interpellant travels. The ultimate goal must be a world free of nuclear weapons. However, we must be aware that this is a long-term work that will take time. In the meantime, it is important to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in security policy and raise the threshold for the use of nuclear weapons. Interpellanten Nybakk is a member of the 2015 Supervisory Conference. So am I. While the 2005 Supervisory Conference did not lead the way forward, perhaps rather on the contrary, the 2010 New York Conference reached an agreement between 189 countries on the further development of disarmament. Among other things, agree on concrete measures to eliminate nuclear weapons, strengthen work on non-proliferation and create conditions for the peaceful use of nuclear technologies by all countries. An agreement was also reached on the first steps to achieve a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. It shows that the world community, with the UN as a framework, is crucial for cooperation on issues that are crucial to our common security. The Interpellant also brings forward the Oslo Conference in 2013 which shows that this type of conference can also bring us closer to the goal. The previous government presented St.meld in 2008. No 27 for 2007-2008 on disarmament and non-proliferation, as defined three main Norwegian objectives, namely the work on security at the lowest possible level of armaments, the work of a world without weapons of mass destruction and the elimination of conventional weapons causing unacceptable humanitarian suffering. A total increase was associated with these objectives. In the case of nuclear weapons, Norway has been clear on the objective of working for a safer world, precisely without nuclear weapons. This also requires a clear strengthening of the non-proliferation regime. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs today is so clearly sharing a global global vision of a world free of nuclear weapons, and that he highlights the importance of a successful NPT Supervisory Conference and will work towards this. The conference will take place in a positive international context for nuclear disarmament. I'll mention some positive moves. The START II agreement between the United States and Russia to reduce the number of strategic weapons. In addition to the commitment to reduce the amount of nuclear weapons, the Obama Administration has committed itself to reducing the amount of nuclear weapons and reducing its role in the strategy for protecting national security. The U.S. does not develop new nuclear equipment, but facilitates deterrence as the only function of nuclear weapons. There are further positive developments in Iran and the talks that have taken place with the United States and the EU. Norway is involved in various processes to contribute to non-proliferation and disarmament and is seen as a valuable partner in achieving greater transparency, information sharing and confidence-building with Russia related to non-strategic nuclear weapons in Europe. NATO's strategic concept says that the alliance should work to limit the role and importance of nuclear weapons in the world. But as long as other states have nuclear weapons, NATO will also have nuclear weapons. In this context, it is important that we continue with the practical and step-by-step approach to transparency, information sharing and trust-building work related to non-strategic nuclear weapons. Finally, I would like to say that the work started on an international ban on nuclear weapons is an important beginning on which we must continue to work and build. At the same time, new initiatives are challenging. The process must not divert the discussion away from the step-by-step practical approach that has proved to be the most successful in reducing the number of nuclear weapons and creating stability. This is a process that will take time, and there are small prospects for some arms control agreement involving non-strategic nuclear weapons in the near future. Nevertheless, we must maintain faith and work hard for the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. Visions are important, but at the same time we have to relate to a world that is very close to perfect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e524	Who doesn't dream of a world without nuclear weapons? No matter how much you wish for that, no one has the power to erase a knowledge and technologist that is already acquired to date. That being said, the Progress Party is committed to a strict non-proliferation policy being implemented internationally, and to NATO following up. NATO has no nuclear weapons, but three of NATO's member countries have such weapons. The point of holding such weapons is to deter. The Progress Party is therefore opposed to a policy in which NATO countries unilaterally reduce their capacities. It could reduce deterrence and create greater uncertainty about ability and prevent attacks on NATO Member States. The Progress Party supports the line that NATO has in the field of nuclear weapons and believes it is important that it does not leave an impression in the organisation that Norway is in the process of asking questions about alliance policy in this area. No one can disagree with an ambition to eliminate all nuclear weapons, but let's be honest -- it's totally unrealistic, and if you set unrealistic goals, the risk of failure is great. The interpellant refers to conferences held where the goal has been a world free of nuclear weapons. You didn't do that. It is very uncertain whether conferences are crucial in such a context. However, I share the inter-pellant's wish that there should be a greater ability to identify the potential humanitarian consequences of the possible use of nuclear weapons. That in itself could be deterrent. Here conferences can have an effect. To be honest, no democratic country will ever be the first to use nuclear weapons. ‘First use’, regardless of the doctrine, will not take place. But that doesn't mean that such weapons could never be used. There are very unstable countries that possess nuclear weapons and have done horrible things in the past. These countries should know that if you choose to use such weapons against one of the 28 countries of NATO, you are at risk. While the objective of limiting access to nuclear weapons is not wasted, the approach should be non-proliferation and analysis of the consequences of the possible use of nuclear weapons. That in itself is deterrent. The Progress Party records that the interpellant has a glowing commitment to disarmament conferences. Such conferences can certainly contribute to the establishment of useful cross-border contacts. This is a sensible objective supported by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e546	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant Marit Nybakk for a very important interpellation, which I thought would provide some clear clarifications. That is why I would like to thank the Foreign Minister very much for the clarity he shows, and for the fact that there is no doubt about Norway's position. We share all the vision of a nuclear-weapon-free value. We agree on this in Norwegian policy. Neither does it break with our NATO membership or the dialogue we can have with NATO allies. So we can disagree on how to get there. There may be different points of view. But what's important is that we don't shut down any possibilities for improvement. So I would also say that the Norwegian position is in itself important. It has a significant impact both on how other states view this, and on how what I want to call global civil society, looks at this. That is why it is important to clarify what the Foreign Minister has come with today, where he does not doubt Norway's position and position. I want to thank him for that. The humanitarian initiative launched in Oslo in March 2013 has provided a new momentum in the international dialogue. It has involved the majority of nations in the world and not just the P5 nations of the United States, Russia, the United Kingdom, France and China, who have traditionally debated this. There are three things that I want to pay particular attention to, which will be important for the Christian People's Party in the future. The first is that there must be an explicit goal for the government that the new dynamics should lead to concrete results. Here I noticed the wording that the Minister of Foreign Affairs used. He used expressions like'start negotiations' at a later stage, but it is clear that the government here wants concrete results. Secondly, the government should clearly state that one is impatient when it comes to the lack of a real process and that they lack the results of the previous processes are alarming. I also feel that it is in line with what Foreign Minister Brende did well for. The third is that the government will continue to contribute actively to the humanitarian process, including the preparations for and during the Vienna Conference in December. Here the Foreign Minister used the expression that there was an active process and a good dialogue with Austria, and I am very pleased about that. I would also like to stress what the Foreign Minister said about the importance of this initiative, but it is important that we avoid new countries getting nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons. It's especially important. I would also like to comment on Mr Tybring-Gjedde's comments, because it is clear that we could use that idea in the 1980s, and say: What expectations did we have for disarmament agreements in the 1980s? At the end of the 1970s there could also be fairy tales, but then it turned out that the fairy tales became a reality. It was a significant disarmament that neither Russia nor the United States believed at an earlier time. This is the same vision that we should share now – that we want a nuclear-free value. We don't quite see how it can happen now, but what we're seeing now is that there's been a new initiative that has given us a new dynamic. I am very pleased that the government has expressed so clearly that they will follow the initiative that was launched in March 2013 here in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e569	First, I want to thank the interpellant for keeping warm today's greatest and most serious humanitarian challenges. For purely humanistic reasons, governments in all countries should aim to work for a world without nuclear weapons and without the threat of total extermination of the human race. The centre party will have an international ban on nuclear weapons. The follow-up to the Conference of Supervisors to the Non-Proliferation Agreement, which will take place every five years, is very important. The red-green government confirmed that they wanted to «work for a world free of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction through binding agreements covering all countries». They further confirm: ‘We will mobilise to reduce the role of nuclear weapons by working for a successful monitoring conference in 2010. If this fails, we will consider a separate Convention against Nuclear Weapons.’ At the 2010 Supervisory Conference, the Non-Proliferation Agreement covers a total of 189 countries. North Korea was a member, but withdrew from the agreement in 2003. The Conference adopted an action programme for the next five years, which provided concrete measures to achieve the objectives of the abolition of nuclear weapons, strengthening non-proliferation work and creating conditions for the peaceful use of nuclear technology by all countries. There is therefore good reason to have expectations for the meeting next year. The non-proliferation agreement builds on a fragile balance between cross-cutting considerations in these issues as a policy mix. The agreement on the final declaration and an action programme for the Non-Proliferation Agreement was, therefore, of great importance after the 2005 Conference of Supervisors ended in a failure. The 2010 conference, on the other hand, was an encouraging expression that the world community, with the UN as a framework, could cooperate and achieve consensus on issues that are important to our common security and future. In addition to the agreement on the action programme, it was particularly positive that a consensus was reached on concrete measures to implement the objective of a zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. The central party believes that trust building measures require more of Norway than just getting out of the non-proliferation supervisory conference. This is why the government wants to focus on the work of a global conventional disarmament. The transformation of the global military industrial complex led to the destruction of all operational, tactical and strategic nuclear weapons. This is in line with the UN Security Council's objective of global zero tolerance for nuclear weapons. As a strategic move to get nations that don't have nuclear weapons on the challenging path to a world society without nuclear weapons, the Central Party believes that the Non-Proliferation Agreement must be extended to include an obligatory Treaty phase-out of nuclear weapons by countries that have them. Countries that do not have nuclear weapons also need to be involved and thus contribute to putting additional pressure on the nuclear powers. It is only through such an agreement that the international community may have the hope of reaching an international consensus on a nuclear-free future. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a clear answer, but I hope that he can be even a little more specific on what means he will use in his work to achieve the goal of eliminating all nuclear weapons, as a co-conspirator's foreign committee has established in its setting. In this case, it is important to be impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e598	Disarmament and, in the long term, the removal of nuclear weapons are crucial for the safety of the human race. Time has gone by far from the Cold-War idea of mutual-insured intelligence, and the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons are potentially so enormous that we hardly have a vocabulary that can describe the outcome. Not least in the light of the terrorist threat, it is important to work for the complete disarmament of nuclear weapons. Although the likelihood that today’s nuclear powers will use such weapons against each other is small, fortunately, the likelihood is many more and more alarming if such weapons fall into the hands of international terrorist organisations or unstable states. Norway has been in the forefront of the important humanitarian initiative in recent years, which, in my view and many others, should lead to an international ban on nuclear weapons, following the successful ban processes on landmines and on class weapons. Signals that the signatures and others got during the winter made us somewhat worried that Norway was no longer in such a driving role. The signal after the NPT Preparation Committee in New York was that the Norwegian delegation to other countries stated that Norway does not want a ban on nuclear weapons at this time, that we believe that the responsibility for continuing the humanitarian initiative lies with other states, and that we would not want Austria to be the organizer of a new conference, if this were to start a prohibition process. In Stortinget on 7 May, I asked the European Minister if those signals were an expression of Norway's official position. Unfortunately, I did not get a very good answer. Fortunately, today I feel that the signal from the government, from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, is much clearer and much clearer. Minister of Foreign Affairs Brande indicates that we will continue to be a driver of the humanitarian initiative and that we will actively contribute in Austria. It's a pleasure. But when it comes to the prohibition issue itself, I note that the Foreign Minister says that there is no political basis for a ban now, but more important: that hopefully it will be such a basis in the future. Then, of course, it is to hope and expect that the government will actively contribute to a driving role in order for such a political foundation to come. Unfortunately, it's not enough to work for a vision of an atomic-free value; one has to work for it to actually become an atomic-free value. Then one needs to be clear that this should be done through a new instrument of international law, a prohibition. More and more countries are now talking about this, not least because of the important space for action created by the humanitarian initiative. All in all, I still feel that the signal the Minister of Foreign Affairs is coming today, is that there has been no line change from the previous government, and that Norwegian policy is being continued. That's reassuring. That's good. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, like the Minister for Europe, repeatedly refers to our NATO commitments, and understands that it may be imperative to face a nuclear ban as long as the military alliance of which we are fortunately a part, has doctrines about the use of nuclear weapons. This is an important point to clean up, because it's not necessarily that our NATO membership itself prevents us as a nation from working for a nuclear ban. In the article ‘A Ban on Nuclear Weapons: What’s in it for NATO?’, which was just published by the International Law and Policy Institute, this type of argument is discussed and thoroughly refuted. Although NATO's strategic concept means that NATO is also a nuclear alliance as long as such weapons exist, there is hardly any international legal obstacle to the individual Member States being able to participate in an agreement on an international ban. Already today, there are major differences between NATO countries when it comes to legal and practical conditions around nuclear weapons. For example, Norway permits: not the deployment of such weapons on their territory. The left believes it is important that Norway continues to face the humanitarian process, which should eventually lead to an international ban on nuclear weapons. We see no reason to celebrate the disarmament ambitions and fortunately feel that the government shares that view, and we expect the Foreign Minister to follow up the signals he receives from the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e626	I have, like many others, visited Hiroshima in Japan, and a dragon has not touched from there, cork from a meeting with those who are still alive, who experienced the nuclear attack and got their body burned, or from the area where almost everything that was, in a circle of several kilometers, was wiped out. But perhaps the strongest impression was the fear of the future attack created. Some of the things that characterize almost every society, just as one is, is that a new child is born. But after a nuclear attack, one knows that there's anxiety and fear that a new child will come to the world – for what harm does it mean? There are three weapons of mass destruction, two of them regulated by an international ban through a convention, but nuclear weapons are not. All the more so is the fact that the whole of Norway – and many internationally – shares the vision of a value free of nuclear weapons. But a vision has to have a policy, otherwise it's just a speck. In recent years it is true, as the Foreign Minister said, that there have been locked negotiations in the conventional processes of getting on with disarmament. The most interesting thing that's happened, in my view, in the last few years, is just the process that the interpellant is taking up for the first time today, that is, the humanitarian track. The goal there must be completely clear that we're getting a convention on a ban on nuclear weapons, which we have for a number of other types of weapons. In my view, other processes have just shown that it is meaningful to work for such a convention. Let me spend some time on it. For biological and chemical weapons, the prohibition and conventions came before the actual abolition of the weapon – as we know, it still exists out there. It was just so that they were traveling to make sure that there was fewer weapons. If we go to other processes, such as landmines, or the last class weapons, they just show that even if a country doesn't get it all from the start, it's a way to create a norm-making effect that affects the whole world. Class weapons are just an example of how it can take quite a short time to create a momentum and a broad international process, but someone has to lead and hire it and push it forward and tolerate the criticism for a small period of time that it is unrealistic and hardly going to happen. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister has now made it clear, as many others have said, that Norway will continue to be a leader in the humanitarian track, that we will put great emphasis on it at the next conference, and that we are actively working on it – as we have done over several years – and that he underlines the continuation of the line of the red-green government. He also says that negotiations on a Convention on Prohibition are not realistic now, because there is no basis for it. That's what I'm in isolation. It won't happen tomorrow, that's not the basis for tomorrow. But it will only happen in the future if someone has as an expressed goal to create a basis for it. It had the previous government. I will read out what Foreign Minister Gahr Støre answered a written question sent on 30 September 2011: ‘At the same time, it is important to continue to lay the political foundations for a future ban. The humanitarian approach is one important part of it’. I take it again, so no one is in doubt: ‘At the same time, it is important to continue to lay the political foundations for a future ban. The humanitarian approach is one important part of it’. So what I'm busy about is not that we're going to spread illusions that this is going to be right around the corner, but that we're going to continue the policy that the previous government had, that the humanitarian track is part of a process to lay the foundation of a convention. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister to make it clear here from the Chair, that the government is passing on what the previous government had as a line, and that this is the goal of having a leadership role. Because if you're going to rent, you're going to have to pay for something, and a world without nuclear weapons must have a law that forbids nuclear weapons. It's really worth renting Norway against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e651	My first meeting with the debate on nuclear weapons and disarmament is a clear memory from childhood: a very special home-held pot-cloth with the marked message 'no to nuclear weapons'. If this was a political message placed in the kitchen drawer with suggestions from my parents, do not know, but the message must have stuck. For a few years afterwards – rather said in 1995, when I was ten years old – I sent my first letter to a politician. The letter was addressed to Mr President Jacques Chirac with a clear message to stop the French nuclear test explosions. I still remember how shocked I was by the newscasts where an adult man in all seriousness claimed that testing an atomic bomb did not pose any threat to man or nature there. Then it may not be so surprising that the picture that meets you when you get into my apartment in Stavanger is a framed poster by Rolf Groven’s “Atomgut”. My point of telling these stories is to emphasize that the struggle for a world free from nuclear weapons is not a battle that belongs only to the activists of the 1970s or 1980s, but also to my generation. It is too easy to let the disarmament struggle be illustrated with black and white images from demonstration trains where everyone has sling pants, round glasses and long hair. The fight is as topical today as it is then – unfortunately. Although one has not come to the goal, one important step has been taken in the right direction, and I am proud of the work the red-green government has done in this area. Much has been said about this until now in the debate, but I have noticed something in particular that former foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre has said: ‘far more important than exactly how this legal instrument should be is the process in the future: how we can mobilise strongly enough, politically, to overcome the resistance we know will come’. That's why I'm very pleased with the interview with Marit Nybakk today. For the new blue-blue government had to be mobilized by Stortinget for a stronger and clearer work on non-proliferation and disarmament. That is what this debate has shown today. It had become an impression that the new government was on its way to a shift of lines in this case, that Norway, with a new government, had less ambitions in the humanitarian initiative. I was therefore very excited about what the foreign minister would say today, and I noticed that he is clearer in his answers. Next step is to show this in action. Only then will the uncertainty about Norway’s line be fully elucidated. So today's debate in Stortinget was necessary, and there should be no doubt as to what the call from Stortinget to Burnde is. But perhaps most important: The size should and must continue to follow closely in this matter. So far, the "Atomboy" is hanging in my apartment. I hope one day to take the picture down in a celebration that the goal of a nuclear-free world has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e669	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Nybakk and Minister for Foreign Affairs Børge Brende very much for the initiative and for the words that have been said so far. For my part, I would like to say that both Børge Brende, of course, and Øyvind Halleraker have presented the Right's position in the matter in a good way. This is a very serious debate with a very important theme, which is also very much on my mind. That's why I'm taking part anyway. Many years ago, when I was rapporteur in Oppegård, I signed a campaign for a nuclear-free world on behalf of the Mayors for Peace. When I was first in the United Nations as a giant representative, I re-received my own signature. I didn't see it, but it was lying there in a heavy pile of white sheets with signatures in a glass booth. I knew it was there, and I liked the idea that it was there. This is a cruelly serious topic, and we, of course, share the vision of a nuclear-free world. The vision of using nuclear weapons is almost impossible to imagine. There's no vocabulary, it was said right here from the pulpit, and that's about what it is. That is why we must promote knowledge of the humanitarian consequences, because they are so great. When the world is facing disasters today – we've seen it in tsunami, we've seen it in earthquake disasters – the whole world is moving in with help and possible assistance to repair the damage and help them. No one can run to it after a disaster of the dimension we're now talking about. No one has a chance. The consequences aren't there, and we don't have the remedies. It is an acute danger that countries that do not have nuclear weapons can get it, or that nuclear weapons can get on the wrong hands. There's an ironic song that I was very concerned about when I was young, and I don't know if it's parliamentary right to sing, but I'm trying: "First we got the bomb, and that was good, 'Cause we love peace and motherhood. Then Russia gets the bomb, but that's okay, 'Cause the balance of power's retained that way. Who's next?» That's what Tom Teacher sang many years ago, and then he rammed in a good way upland by country that might be able to get the nuclear bomb. Today, we may not need to ram as much land as to ram terrorists who might be ‘next’. We have our membership in NATO and the membership obligations that belong to it. We're standing by. The interpellant raised the question of commitment to first use. NATO has given guarantees not to use against countries that do not have, but nuclear weapons must be removed. It has to be worked on, no doubt, because the consequences are so huge, is just an incentive to work on. On 20 March this year, in the IPU Assembly for parliamentarians in Geneva, a resolution was adopted in the consensus stressing the key role that parliaments and we parliamentarians have in precisely addressing the dangers and consequences of the use of nuclear weapons, and the need to follow up all the political tracks that are possible to achieve the vision that we all share about a nuclear-free world. The IPU Assembly challenged all parliamentarians to encourage their governments to promote the goal of a nuclear-free world in every possible – as they said – ‘appropriate international forums and treaty bodies’ and finally to take all possible steps to achieve this. Both the interpellant Marit Nybakk and our own foreign minister Børge Brende have both taken a step on the way to that work today, and I would like to thank them for that. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has also confirmed that he will do so. Norway will work towards a common vision of a nuclear-free world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e701	The President has not found any prohibition in the Rules of Procedure on toneing his speeches, so it is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e704	It won't be easy to come after Mrs. Graham here now. If I could sing, I guess AC/DC's Highway to Hell is the best thing to do when you talk about nuclear weapons. But I won't try it – I promise! I would also like to thank you for the interpellation, and I must say that I am genuinely pleased with the foreign minister's reply today. It was important to us in the left. Suffering if I'm considerably older than the last speeches from the Workers' Party, I also want to start with my childhood, because I'm a child of the 1980s. Children in the 1980s were genuinely afraid of nuclear weapons. One of the things I think is in the back of us 40-year-olds today is that nuclear weapons were one of the things we were most afraid of, and that nuclear war was going to happen. We grew up in a world where there were many given truths that do not exist today, for example. that the world was divided east and west with a wall, and it can't do anything about it. If you had rolled back to Step 9 years, I think there were two things I was willing to spend my whole life on, and it was getting rid of the nuclear weapons and getting Gro Harlem Brundtland not to build that dam in Alta. It was probably the main driving forces for me to become a politician. That's why it was really the article about all the unrealistic that prompted me to draw here. When I was little, it was to think that the wall would fall, and that Europe would again begin to become a unit, unrealistic. It was unrealistic to think that we would no longer have an unpredictable Communist leader who was sitting and driving all of Eastern Europe, and who was also sitting and driving the nuclear button. Maybe it's what makes foreign policy so incredibly exciting, that very many given truths, very many expert analyses, very many truths that it's always going to be, all of a sudden it's not true anyway. I do not know if many of you have seen Urix’s series when they interview when changing correspondents. Almost all the correspondents have experienced that something very unexpected has happened during their four-year period — either that country has opened up or that country has closed down — entirely unforeseen, which no expert could have thought would happen, but it has still happened. I have expectations that the government is active also in relation to this, sail if they are parties with representatives in the hall who believe it is unrealistic. I have expectations of the government as a driving force, which is able to see what clear signals this House also gives today to support the humanitarian initiative and also to see how important it is to be a driving force in these transitions. I am very pleased with the signals, and I hope that we will see it again in actions, and that we will hear it again in Norwegian delegations at international meetings. Sveinung Rotevatn went through the positions of the Left in a very good way. This is possible to do within the NATO framework and with the humanitarian initiative as a driving force. I think that if you're back 150 years old, there were probably some big-time representatives who talked about Norway becoming an equal society, and that women would get a vote. I think a lot of people thought it was a little unrealistic. I think that if you flush 150 years back in this room, the poverty you could see just by looking out of the windows here, would be something that you thought was impossible to remove, and the dream of creating an equal society with much less poverty and with much greater equality was a little unrealistic. When Johannes Steen presented his severe educational reform to ensure that all people in this society were given equal education, I think maybe many here thought it was a little unrealistic. But we did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e725	Thank you for an important debate, thank you for a constructive debate and a debate that will take us forward. Then I just want to follow up Trine Skei Grande. Some of us remember very well on November 9, 1989. It was a very common day for most people, except in Berlin, because the first East Germans hit their way through the wall. The impossible had become possible – that's exactly what the representative Skei Grande said now. Today, we hardly remember that there were two Germanys. If you ask today's 20-year-olds about the Wall, they'll think we're talking about the wall in Palestine. As soon as politics goes, although it's very short time in history. The debate we have now had shows that it is a very broad majority who support the work towards a nuclear-free world based on humanitarian law and with an instrument of international law. There is an almost consensus to continue the search for the humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons. I think it was the representative Rotevatn who said there is hardly any vocabulary. I am very pleased that Norway will take an active part in the preparations for the Vienna conference. I am pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has been so clear on that very point, and that he is also so clear on continuing the initiative taken by Norway in March 2013 and on following the humanitarian trail, and that there is no shift in policy in terms of disarmament, non-proliferation and complete elimination of nuclear weapons. I have a very bad voice today – it's a cold that doesn't give up – so I won't sing. I just thought it was very nice to hear Sylvi Graham. But I shall, also because of what Board Vegar Solhjell said, just read, please, a little bit from a story from Hiroshima of August 1945, about the destruction of a school: Out of 300 students, 17 survived the first few minutes – the air was soot, ash, dust, everything was a terrifying darkness. From the atomic cloud comes the unfathomable thunder. Cruel smell and taste are spreading, glass pieces are flying with a force that takes life – where some are still alive. Buildings had evaporated to pieces. In the ground below was ground and roots burned. People who were not dead were dragging themselves against sources of water. How many, many, many, many times the nuclear weapons of the day are than the Hiroshima bomb, we may not know.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e742	I would also like to thank you for what I experience as a good debate. The vision of a world free of nuclear weapons is universal. There is a broad consensus that Norway should continue to work with and be an active driver in order to produce the dramatic humanitarian consequences of the use of nuclear weapons. Through a discussion along those lines, while we are working intensively to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons – to North Korea, to Iran – we will be able to provide an important political basis over time to move from a vision to a situation where we can see a world without nuclear weapons. We who grew up during the cold war, on which the representative Skei Grande was involved, still remember the regular exercises at the school and the bombing room in the basement and the certainty that the nuclear weapons were found. But there are still 17 000 nuclear weapons left in the world, and there is a real danger that new actors will also be able to access them. Norway will work actively to produce the humanitarian consequences, but at the same time we need to be aware that there are several reasons why global disarmament work has been characterised by stagnation. There are no simple solutions here. And this government is in line with the previous government on issues relating to both NATO connectivity, alliance solidarity and disarmament. The political basis must be in place before proposing a possible ban – at that point I agree with my predecessors, just to underline it – but there are several elements here, and having a full focus on the humanitarian consequences and non-proliferation is important. Then I have to remind you of what is NATO's strategy, and which is established by the Labour Party's leader, Jens Stoltenberg – there were several who took up some quotations here – and that is that it has been part of NATO's strategy ever since NATO was established, that NATO must have nuclear weapons as long as there are nuclear weapons in the world. But I don't think this stands in any contrast to the work we're doing now to produce the humanitarian consequences. The vision is clear: nuclear weapons must be abolished. And Norway will continue the work we've been doing since the Oslo Conference, and earlier than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e753	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e769	In any debate about poverty I participate in, the underlying solution is work. If poor people are to get out of poverty permanently, they need a job to do. And if poor countries are to stabilise and succeed in further development, they must be able to take advantage of the enormous opportunities to get more people to work. The more people at work, the greater the value creation and the better the development of society. Today, when I ask the question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to pledge job creation as a new priority in cooperation with poor countries, and what strategies the government will follow in this work, and ask the question so broadly, it is because there are more policy areas than assistance that have significance in our contact with developing countries. The Christian People's Party wants a more coherent policy towards developing countries. On the part of the Christian People's Party, today's interpellation will highlight in particular how we can contribute to job creation in developing countries through three policy areas: Norwegian aid, Norwegian industrial policy and the state's investment policy for the oil fund. Targets on industrial development, economic growth and job creation are not new either in Norwegian or international development policies. But it has also proved to be one of the more demanding areas of assistance. Evaluation has shown that the results are often absent or that the effect is simply negative. Researchers in the International Monetary Fund did a long-term study a few years ago. It showed that efforts for education and health consistently delivered better results than more business-oriented projects. Many developing countries have gained poor experience in industrialised countries’ attempts to bind aid to the use of their own enterprises, so-called tied aid. This resulted in significant degradation both of the projects and of the subsequent maintenance follow-up. The promotion of donor countries’ export interests has also led to the local strenghtening of emerging enterprises in developing countries in the birth of subsidised products from developed countries or of dumping of e.g. food surpluses from rich countries. The OECD Development Committee has therefore placed great emphasis on the principle of unbundled assistance in its guidelines on good assistance. In addition, we have learned from national policies that instruments should be general and not be linked to individual enterprises. Competition in the market must work. Little has been gained by moving contracts between enterprises by means of subsidies. It is important to learn from this story, and the Christian People's Party assumes that these lessons do not repeat old mistakes when we develop new measures to promote job creation. In aid policy, we can promote job creation in several ways. To promote growth, one of the most important is to create a safer and better investment climate in each country. These include: on the development of institutions, on legal certainty about private investment and on infrastructure in the form of energy, roads and communications. Norway is already contributing to some extent in these areas, but we can do more. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's view on how we can increase such efforts in sub-Saharan Africa. In Norway, it is run by small and medium-sized enterprises. Africa south of the Sahara is characterised by, inter alia: by the fact that very few small enterprises grow into medium-sized enterprises. If we are able to organize this "missing middle", we will get a new momentum in the growth we are now seeing in this poor world. In the Norwegian aid budget, Norfund has been given a central place in business cooperation. It is important that Norfund and other aid-funded measures to promote business development should be able to demonstrate a clear development effect. Aid-financed measures must show added value and additionality compared to private investment. Norfund, in my view, is a great success and resource; they have experience and competence. It is good that the focus now shifts more to investment in poor countries, not least in Africa. When Norfund eventually sells out of, among other things. hydropower investment in middle-income countries will release billions that can be invested in poorer countries. This can be an important contribution to growth and job creation. I expect the government to inform the Storting more about it in the future. In December, I visited Norfund’s headquarters in Nairobi. It was an instructive visit, and I met a dedicated staff. Through the investments they make, they change lives into thousands of people. One of the projects I thought was extra exciting was an investment fund towards South Sudan. There were loans that were not microcredited, but neither were the enormous amounts. It gave small businesses the opportunity to evolve. Such projects are, of course, more expensive and demanding to follow up, but they are very important. I hope we can see several of these. Another main strategy to facilitate job creation is education policy. Education qualifies for work, and jobs provide income. Therefore, education is an important strategy to get out of poverty. After eight years of stagnation and decline in education assistance, the Christian People's Party has now been able to make an impact on increased investment in education — not least for girls. It's not enough to roll students into primary schools, the quality of teaching determines the learning outcomes. The Christian People's Party wants part of the growth of Norwegian school assistance to go to technical vocational schools and to practical vocational training. In this way, we can help promote entrepreneurship and industrial development. And then again, it's essential that once they've got their education, they have a job to do. In addition to improving job opportunities, it is also important to ensure decent pay and secure jobs. Part of the textile industry in Asian countries is pure horror examples of exploitation and hazardous work environments. We have long imported cheap clothes, now we have to take greater responsibility. I therefore ask the government to take a leading role in promoting the ILO's Decent Work Agenda. In addition to aid policy, where the main objective is social and economic development in poor countries, Norway can also contribute to business development and job creation through purely business relations. New opportunities are opening up now by finally experiencing economic growth in sub-Saharan Africa. The last ten years have shown a very positive development. It increases purchasing power, not least in a growing middle class. Statoil has seen the possibilities for a long time and made large investments without assistance, simply because they see very profitable investment opportunities. Telenor has done the same, not least in several Asian countries. I am therefore challenging the government to take business policy initiatives to introduce several Norwegian companies for the opportunities that are open here to profitable investment projects and trade relations. With sufficient long-termity in the exposures and knowledge to manage risks, projects that yield good returns and are mutually beneficial may be available. Many developing countries will grow more than our traditional trading partners. In Africa, growth is expected to be higher than in Europe. Therefore, Norwegian companies should see the business opportunities. The government should be able to facilitate it in several ways: This may include, inter alia: are made through several trade agreements and bilateral investment agreements. New bilateral investment agreements must provide the opportunity for poor countries to pursue an active and autonomous industrial policy. Innovation Norway should be represented in several developing countries. It must be possible to make several political visits, not least in Africa, with which business is invited. Norway has huge financial muscles through the oil fund, the SPU. The requirement for profitability and return must, of course, be at the bottom, because the main objective here is a good return on funds to the State pension fund. However, precisely on the basis of this objective, investment in emerging markets could become more and more interesting. They can both give us returns and contribute to more jobs and better income in poor countries. Sony Kapoor, CEO of Re-Define, wrote in the Evening Post on Tuesday: ‘In reality, less than 8 per cent of State pension funds abroad are invested in developing countries that already account for half of the world’s gross domestic product. [[SPU]] [[GDP]] It is good policy for both Norway and the world poor that more of the oil money is invested in sustainable businesses and renewable energy in developing countries. We were therefore many who were disappointed on Tuesday when the government parties voted down their own commitment from the Sundvolden Declaration to set up a mandate under the State pension fund abroad to invest in poor countries. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how he will follow up this promise. Norway is doing a lot, but we can do much more to promote job creation through aid policy, industrial policy and state investment policy. I therefore look forward to hearing what the Foreign Minister will answer to this interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e822	The representative, Ropstad, raises a very central issue related to efforts to achieve sustainable poverty reduction. Thank you for an important initiative, which is also in line with the priorities of the government in the formulation of a forward-looking development policy, with a focus on ‘future’. Since 1990, we've been 1.7 billion. more people on Earth. In the same period, the proportion of extremely poor people has been halved. So we're able to reduce poverty while the world's population has increased. For the first time in world history, we now have an opportunity to eradicate all extreme poverty by 2030. According to the UN, by 2050 there will be almost 10 billion people on earth. The International Labour Organisation (ILO) has estimated that the world needs 600 million new jobs only by 2020 to keep employment at current level. Only in the Arab world will 70 million new jobs be created by 2020. It's very challenging when, by the way, half of the population is under 20 years old. The forecasts for the global economy indicate that the largest growth in the future will come in Asia, Africa and Latin America. One third of African countries have growth of over 5 pst., and seven of the ten fastest growing economies in the world are African. At the same time, the World Bank expresses concern that the growth we see in many developing countries does not create enough jobs. So-called 'jobless growth' is not just something you're facing in developing countries, it's actually something we see in Europe ourselves. The trend towards a more differentiated business and a more differentiated industry is too slow in developing countries. Exports in most African countries are concentrated in a few commodities. According to the World Bank, in three quarters of the countries, three goods account for more than half of exports. In resource-rich countries, concentration is even higher. They have attracted investment and increased export income, but the ring-fence in terms of employment and business start-ups is limited. This is explained by the fact that the gravity lies in capital intensive and often resource-based activities such as mining and oil and gas extraction. Another reason is generally poor framework conditions for foreign investment. Structural changes are therefore needed to facilitate wider industrial development. The World Bank says that even under optimistic assumptions, the formal sector will only provide a fraction of the need for jobs in the decades to come. In addition, they point out that the quality of jobs can be as high a problem as the number of jobs. There are few confirmed unemployment figures in Africa, but we know that less than 10 pst. by young Africans aged 15 to 24 today have paid for work in the formal sector. Over half of the population in sub-Saharan Africa is under 25, compared with 43 pst. global. When such large youth coal enters the labour market one day, there is a high potential for growth, but also a risk of social unrest if there are not enough jobs. The World Bank’s annual development report was devoted to employment in 2013. The report points out that the jobs that reduce poverty, bind the economy to global markets and build trust, have the greatest development effect. It also shows that paid work creates far more developmental effects than other types of transfers. Today's youth coal is the largest in history on a global scale. There are talent, drive and ideas that society needs to put into practice. With the right effort, large youth schools can go from being a problem to becoming a resource. Academic and professional institutions, in cooperation with the private sector, can contribute to economic development and growth. The level of development of a country will determine which measures produce the highest returns. Basic training and the strengthening of basic skills are needed first, and as economic activity and level of development increase, higher education and more advanced skills will be needed. In its Communication to the European Council on Education for Development, the Government will address Norway's lifting of vocational training and higher education on the International Development Agenda. The aim is to contribute to developing countries themselves being able to meet the need for skilled labour and employment. In many developing countries, there is a gap between the needs of the labour market and the knowledge and skills of young people. Close cooperation with the labour market on training and education is necessary to ensure the relevance and quality of the supply and to enhance access of industry and the labour market to recruits with the required qualifications. In order to reduce the gap between the required and existing qualifications, a wide range of measures aimed at formal and informal education are needed, from initial training in schools, vocational training and apprenticeships in different workplaces to training in organisational life. Training in project work and management as well as entrepreneurship training and relevant types of higher education are actions of major importance. Together with NHO and Norwegian enterprises, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now looking at how we can establish a good partnership to ensure that young people receive relevant education tailored to the needs of the local labour market. The government statement stressed that increasing trade, industrial development and investment are essential for economic growth and sustainable poverty reduction. The government budget for 2015 will have a profile that reflects this. In a statement by foreign policy and development policy in March, I announced a political change of pace with increased emphasis on industrial development and the organisation of international trade. We're going to use the aid smartly, so that it triggers more capital, preferably from commercial actors. Cooperation between private and public actors ensures broader ownership and helps to trigger projects that would otherwise not have been realised. Within the WTO, the government works inter alia: for freer world trade, because this best respects both Norwegian interests and increases market access for poor countries. At the same time, we have launched a broad review of the whole of industrial development policy. Today, most of the resources for industrial development are channelled through the multilateral system, in particular through the World Bank Group, the Asia Bank and the African Bank. Recently, we had strategic consultations with the World Bank Group here in Oslo to precisely identify possible areas of cooperation, in line with what the inter-pellant addressed. Norfund, as the interpellant also mentioned, is another important tool in industrial development. The jobs for profitable investments to combat poverty through the establishment of profitable businesses and economic growth. In addition, efforts contribute to increased tax revenue and more jobs. We will organise more of this kind of effort within development policy in the years to come. The objective of development policy is to make a country go from being poor to becoming an intermediate country. I don't think anyone has illustrated this better than President Obama, when he tells the story of his father, who left Kenya in the early 1960s. He grew up in a nesting family. At the beginning of the 1960s, the value creation per capita — GDP per capita — was the same in Kenya as in South Korea. Today, the value creation per head in South Korea is 28 times higher than in Kenya. We have to go in and analyse: what has led to such a development in South Korea – is there something we can learn from? What we can say is a common term for developing countries is that they develop a good governance to combat corruption, but that they also focus on education and skills. Education is the key to development. Education also creates a demand for work; jobs are created. Combining this with entrepreneurship is the basis for the elimination of poverty. So this with job creation, industrial development and investment is and will be an important point in a forward-looking development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e871	Thank you very much for your reply. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, there is a great need. It is important to ensure enough jobs in the future, and therefore I am pleased that the government is taking this into account for its work. The Christian People's Party has been committed to ensuring the most effective and optimal assistance possible. That is why we have chosen to promote education and health, which I was in my post, and also to ensure that we facilitate the creation of business development and jobs. This can be done through Norfund, but I would like to stress that the Foreign Minister must use more instruments than just that. Here are, for example: State pension funds abroad an important tool that can be used, and I noticed that he didn't touch it that much. As I was in my post, it is approx. 8 pst. of investments located here in countries accounting for half of the world’s gross domestic product. It shows that the investments are unevenly located. This could lead to a better return for Norway, and not least to the allocation of money capital in these countries, which in turn will mean more jobs. It is a challenge that is important: when a larger investment ensures growth, it must not only cover multinational companies that do not result in jobs on the ground. Growth must be inclusive. I also have questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, based on a suggestion that was in the VG earlier this week, from the Minister for Economic Affairs. He was clearly a bit of the same as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely that we should ensure more of Norwegian business even in poor countries. How are we to ensure that Norwegian support for food development does not lead to some kind of aid-funded Norwegian nutrition promotion, and how do we avoid the re-occurrence of the large scale shipping export campaign? I would like to challenge the Minister of Foreign Affairs on how we can contribute – which was one of my points, and which I am very concerned about – to raise the small businesses that are being created, to become medium-sized, so that we can manage to create more jobs, and that we achieve the goal we have, namely to ensure that those who receive training also have a job to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e886	There has been a major change in developing countries and in developing countries of capital and investment. Of the capital invested in 1990 and the capital coming to developing countries, the aid amounted to 50 pst. – the investments and capital contributions through assistance. Today, aid amounts to 13 pst. of these investments and capital contributions, while foreign investment amounts to 50 pst. Investments in business in developing countries have become essential — and are essential. The fact that seven of the ten fastest growing economies in the world are now in Africa is much due to these investments. But as I said in the answer to the interpellation, there is a need to diversify the economies. Many of the economies that grow rapidly grow on the basis of natural resources, and Norway has a lot to do with how we have managed our oil wealth through, among other things. Government pension funds abroad. As regards the investment universe of the State pension fund abroad, I recommend the representative to raise the questions to the Minister of Finance, who is constitutionally responsible for them. Norway has so far chosen to provide significant assistance, since we are one of the best providers of assistance. with our gross domestic product – and that assistance has been designed to contribute to development. That's how we've chosen to decorate ourselves. On the issue of the role of industry in the context of aid, the goal of all Norwegian aid is development in our countries of cooperation – not the promotion of Norwegian business interests. The assistance should be based on the needs of the beneficiary countries, but Norwegian industry contributes very actively and positively, not least in energy supply, fertilisers, oil and gas, etc. It's a positive side of evolution. 250,000 jobs are now the responsibility of Norwegian industry outside Norway, and an increasing proportion of these are in developing countries. So jobs are created through investments that Norwegian businesses do in developing countries. The assistance shall also not be a substitute for private investment but shall contribute to ensuring a transparent and transparent framework for business activities and contribute to building skills in beneficiary countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e901	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important question and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for showing an engagement in this matter. In my opinion, he gives a good answer. Assistance is still important, but it plays a less important role in the economic development of the world today, in the division of the world into extremely poor and absolutely rich countries. In the future, you might as well imagine that the part of the countries that are today referred to as poor people no longer come to Norway to ask for assistance, but that they come to talk to the State pension fund abroad about where we are going to make our investments. Over 70 pst. of the world's poor live in middle-income countries, and Africa is already the world's fastest growing continent economically. So power – economic and security centre of gravity – is moved southwards and eastwards. Henrik Thune writes in the book ‘What Norway Can Be in the World’ that bilateral and multilateral development policies will need to be replaced by a newly developed globalisation policy that replaces traditional transfers of funds with exports of social skills and investment. We must succeed in Norway contributing to the creation and sharing of other parts of the world. The Norwegian and Nordic models are effective. Let me comment on three things that I think make a difference. Firstly, the line of work, development, trade and other normal economic relations are propagating and creating seventh and last jobs. It contributes to the raising of more people out of poverty and provides a basis for stability and development. If we succeed in creating jobs and good distribution policies over the next decades, opportunities that lie in a growing young and labour-intensive population will develop in many places – if we do something about these problems. Growth and distribution should, in my opinion, go hand in hand. I look forward to a concreteisation of this work by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government. Secondly, the prerequisites for a development model are that strong organisations, in cooperation with the state, are responsible for sustainable development. I believe that Norway has a special advantage, where we know and contribute with competence and can play a role in developing a decent working life and a fairer distribution. Distribution and poverty reduction are closely linked with governance and democracy. Respect for democratic rules of play, free press, strong organisations and cooperation between social partners is important for a development model capable of creating and sharing at the same time. Our international efforts must increasingly be linked to a good set of governance and demands for democracy in the recipient countries. Thirdly, the Government has announced a new device in Norwegian aid policy. They have warned that the number of cooperating countries will be significantly reduced. I am addressing a concreteisation of this by the government, and in particular that the Storting is given the opportunity to discuss these issues. Finally, I would like to say that I welcome the government's focus on raising a debate on assistance. In general, I believe that in the future, we need to focus on doing more of what we know works, and in areas where Norway is required to contribute. We have that in creating work for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e924	It is positive that the Christian People's Party Kjell Ingolf Roppstad addresses this crucial issue of creating jobs in developing countries. It is economic growth that is, and has been, the most important factor for the vast majority of people who have worked out of poverty in the last fifteen years. The Chinese saying "Give a man a fish, and he has food one day. Teach a man to fish, and he has food all his life’, summarizing the importance of measures that last. The aim of job creation in developing countries is to create lasting changes and thus to have as a major objective the elimination of the need for assistance. I believe that job creation must be a central part of Norwegian development policy in the future. But this has to be more knowledge-based. Unfortunately, there have been enough examples of development projects that have failed due to poor and insufficient local knowledge. Freer cross-border trade and investment are also crucial for growth and development. It is central to facilitating foreign investment. That is why we want to increase trade with poor countries. We will focus on industrial development, investment and economic growth in co-operative countries through a modern and broad instrumentation. Only in sub-Saharan Africa, 120 million young people enter the workforce in the next few years. This is a major challenge and will have consequences, for example: for the migration pattern if these are not able to find a decent job. At the same time, we know that nine out of ten jobs in poor countries are in private enterprises. The majority of future jobs should also come from private businesses. Norwegian business is an important player in development policy. Statoil alone pays as much in taxes and charges to Angola as the entire Norwegian aid budget, about 30 billion. kr in 2013. This illustrates the importance of investment and jobs. Cooperation with business actors in development policy is therefore becoming more important. The private sector creates jobs and generates tax revenue and well-being. In the future, the EEAS should be more a tool to promote Norwegian business interests abroad. We need to strengthen cooperation with private actors. Public-private cooperation triggers both competence and capital, both of which are needed in developing countries. Norway, for example, is a partner in the Global Partnership for Education, which provides private capital in addition to traditional assistance. Norfund is an important instrument – as we heard from the inter-pellant and also mentioned by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – which, together with private partners, invests in developing countries. These types of action are important to strengthen development policy in the future. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also said, only by 2020 will 600 million new jobs be needed globally, according to the ILO. At the same time, there is a shortage of skilled labour. When over 50 million young people don't go to school, it's not just a violation of a basic right. It is also a serious obstacle to development. The poverty rate in low-income countries could have been reduced by 12 pst. if all children could read and write. In order to get young people into work, reduce unemployment and secure economic growth, a boost for education is a good investment. I would like to remind you that under the red-green regime, the proportion of the aid budget went to education. Our government has in the year's budget increased the investment in education by 15 pst. Norway will now take a global leadership role in education for all. As explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the call for proposals on education and training for development will promote a special boost for vocational training and higher education on the international development agenda. It is important that countries themselves can have the opportunity to ensure access to skilled labour and to get people to work. A commitment to job creation should be comprehensive and reflect existing programmes such as oil for development and a strong link to industrial development and investment. This, together with a strong commitment to education, will help to improve the sustainability of assistance, which also takes into account the resources and opportunities of individuals to create their own livelihoods. Entrepreneurship is a good key here, in other words, that development takes place through activity growing with the society it is in – from below. As the interpellant put it: ‘In order for developing countries to get out of poverty permanently, it is essential to create jobs and to succeed in economic development.’ And on the other hand, ‘But this growth must benefit more than the elite in the country.’ The objective of development policy must be to provide a basis for economic growth and prosperity. That is why we are meeting the Minister for Foreign Affairs' mentioned change of pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e952	I would like to begin by congratulating the representative Roppstad on the initiative of today's inter-pell debate on job creation and industrial development in developing countries. Creating growth and development in poor countries with demanding assumptions and unstable framework conditions is not an easy task. But there's one problem that needs to be solved. Development policies are, as you know, more than aid policies, although aid funds are part of the development policy toolbox. Assistance is primarily about relief. But if you want to deal with the basic problems, of which poverty is an expression and part, you need more than relief. Then you need a cure. Education and health are essential areas of action if we are to bring about a lasting, positive change in poor countries. But there is also a commitment to creating stable jobs and good framework conditions for business development. The World Bank has pointed out that job creation is a cornerstone of development in poor countries, and that job creation brings benefits that far exceed purely economic. Most jobs are created in the private sector. In fact, the private sector represents more than 90 pst. of all jobs. What's interesting is that these jobs are often a driver of, rather than a result of, economic growth. Economic growth is not a guarantee of development, better distribution and broad poverty reduction, but it is a prerequisite for this. If there's nothing to distribute, there's no distribution either. Without the ability to facilitate sustainable and stable economic growth in poor countries, it will not be possible to create the framework required to address the fundamental challenges facing poor countries. Jobs are stabilising society. We now face a challenge in Europe of high youth unemployment. We see how this affects society, and we see how it not only gives frustration, but also gives instability and partly ground for growth of divisive and partly extreme political movements. The challenge of high youth unemployment is high in many of the poor countries. The World Bank has pointed out that more than 620 million young people are neither working nor studying. Only to keep employment constant must the number of jobs worldwide increase by about 600 million over a 15-year period. I am pleased that the government is so clearly lifting up areas such as trade, food growth and investment as important tools in the Norwegian effort towards developing countries. I am also pleased that the government has been ready that both tipping and concentrating will be needed to have more effect on the contribution given by the Norwegian side. It's about getting better at priorities, and it's about getting better at areas where we have the greatest competence and the best assumptions on the Norwegian side. This will not least benefit the poor. This is also about the fact that from the rich part of the world, we need to be even better at coordinating our contributions and efforts. A better division of labour is needed internationally. We also need a more coherent development policy at home. If we do not achieve coherence in our approach, we will not be able to expect the results to be as good as we hope. In this context, I would like to highlight an important document adopted in the EU and the European Commission just three weeks ago, highlighting the role of the private sector in creating inclusive growth and development in developing countries. The document highlights 12 concrete actions, including improved regulatory framework for business in partner countries, increased focus on food promotion and increased access to capital, especially for micro, mini and medium-sized enterprises. As I said, it is a good priority to bet on health and education, especially to raise girls, but if you don't bet on job creation and nutrition growth at the same time, you only get halfway. People must have something to go to after school too. So attracting business and using their skills to an even greater extent will be necessary. The work done by Norfund is an example of something we should have far more of. This effort does not just set tracks, it sets deep and lasting tracks. Nor do I have a fear of inviting Norwegian business to cooperate for development in poor countries. If Norwegian companies can also earn a penny on this cooperation and expand their markets, this must be a bonus of the positive kind. Job creation promotes economic progress, but property rights are inextricably linked to this. Countries with good and protected private property rights achieve evenly above economic growth, which, as I said, makes it easier to achieve other objectives, as economic growth is the prerequisite for growth and prosperity. As noted in the International Property Rights Index report, most poor countries have weak property rights, which often apply to a few in the country and often not to the poorest. I would like to encourage you to continue to focus on this with property rights. It's about adding not only the properties, but also adding added value so that you can continue to develop through your property.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e982	Thanks to the interpellant Ropstad who addresses this big and important question. World-wide economic differences may evolve to become security policy challenges. Several countries are moving from low to middle-income countries, while the differences between the poor and the rich are increasing. This can challenge stability, while we know that great differences in themselves are home to development and good living conditions. The central party's vision globally and nationally is to build communities from below. Distribution of common resources, resources, knowledge and power in the world is a means of achieving fair, stable and sustainable development. We will contribute to a development in which each country will have control over its own resources and its economic and political development. In this, education has a very central place. Hence, it is important to support welfare development, including: through support for schools, health, infrastructure and collective transport systems under democratic control. Competence must be built in order that developing countries themselves can seize their own future and develop their own welfare country, which is set up as they wish. Trade policy is an important tool for increasing economic development in a country. Uganda is a good example of microfinance working. It's a help for self-help. But the important thing is also the obligation to pay back, so that people don't become passive recipients, but have to create something for the money. Small loans have become increasingly widespread, and larger players have also come along. Many actors, on the other hand, find it difficult to get a full overview of microloans ashore. The centre party will counter corruption, dictatorship and mismanagement through targeting, technical assistance and strengthening of civil society, thus contributing to job creation in the home country. In this context, we refer to the mention of the proposal on country-by-country reporting in Prop 1 LS for 2013–2014, and I would like to underline the importance of greater openness about companies' cross-border flows of money. The proposal on country-by-country reporting is an important measure to address these concerns. Tax evasion and the visibility of undesirable tax adaptation are not included in the proposal for country-by-country reporting. It is therefore appropriate to clarify whether the purpose of the laws should be extended to include tax evasion and to make tax adaptation visible. Furthermore, it should be agreed whether the laws should be amended in such a way that the companies in question also have to report on their business in countries where they have support functions, including tax havens. By improving the proposal on these points, the laws will be strengthened. When the legislation is to be evaluated, it would be natural to involve all Norwegian companies operating abroad, as well as requirements for reporting to be included in the company’s annual accounts and thus audit. Multilateral and bilateral efforts are needed for development, job creation, progress and prosperity. Developing countries themselves need to be able to develop democratic governance, build their society, create their jobs and train their people. Education is the key to development and prosperity. Finally, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and engaging answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1001	The representative, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, has also asked for the floor, and he will have to do so before the inter-pellant Ropstad escapes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1004	I thank you for that concession. Let me first thank the inter-pellant for addressing an important theme here in Stortinget, and say that creating jobs is the very basis for developing and well-being for developing countries. It is also one of the greatest challenges facing development policy, because many developing countries have a lot of unemployment, and as we know, we will need to create millions of jobs in the years to come. Therefore, I believe it is important that we pay even more attention – as the red-green government did – to investment and industrial development as a central part of the development policy of the years to come, but also that we focus on the conditions for those investments. What we see is that the difference between countries that have a set of governance – a stability – that attract investment, and those that don't have it, is huge. I believe that it is essential to understand that one of the things we can strongly influence as political authorities is to help create conditions for private investment to be interesting – in addition to, of course, being able to contribute more directly to those investments. So I want to put emphasis on three relationships around the work. One is that Norway, in addition, has to contribute, together with others, to ensure that when an increase in investment is made — and that happens in many developing countries now, not least in Africa — the money is spent there and used for it or for it. That is to say, the tax revenue that companies are to put back there is to remain and go to investment, well-being and form the basis for future value creation again. Thus, measures such as country-by-country reporting, such as the representative Følling also mentioned here, are unlikely to be important to follow-up. Not only does it counteract corruption, it also provides a basis for increased well-being, better education and public funding for what in turn creates new investments and jobs. So I'll say, work, yes, but it's decent work we're talking about here. Therefore, it is also extremely important that a good development policy should support organisations that contribute to it. Professional units are essential in any community to ensure decent work. It's just to take a look back at what the work force in Norway looked like before the tradesmanship got enough strength to do with it. Therefore, it is extremely important to ensure that support is given to broad, democratic, public organisations representing the workers of developing countries. It helps to create decent work, but it also applies to the international organisations that have been involved in implementing legislation that we have been dealing with internationally and that supports it, and I am thinking about the ILO. The third is, of course, that an important basis for work and value creation, for growth in many countries, is public welfare. From our country, we know that it's not like someone's getting rich all alone. Those who do well and can do it have gone to a school. They've had a good teacher. They transport their goods by road and rail that the community has paid. They do that in every country. Therefore, it is to contribute to small differences and build well-being and effective tax systems also part of creating a good investment climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1020	Thank you for a good debate. Thanks to the people who participated and made good contributions. The interesting thing about job creation is that we agree on the team. It is not so difficult to agree that creating jobs is important, to create a stable framework that will once again provide the basis for an investment. Ensuring trade is important – I always tend to say ‘unfair’ trade, in the sense that poor countries can protect their markets while they can access other markets. Ensuring investment in infrastructure, in energy and in communications that we know are necessary is also important. The Foreign Minister drew up Kenya and referred to Obama's example. I said in my post that I visited Norfund and Kenya in December. The interesting thing about Kenya, which is a middle-income country, and which I've always seen as one of the countries that's done well, is that approximately. half of the population who still live in extreme poverty. It's one of these paradoxes. Although countries get out of poverty, as far as growth is concerned, although gross domestic product is increasing, it is not enough. You have to succeed in creating jobs. You have to succeed in creating the inclusive growth. We also know that approx. 70 pst. of the world's poor live in middle-income countries. We have said that aid should be directed more towards the poorest countries because the middle-income countries have to deal with more themselves, but that also means that investment has to come to middle-income countries. I understand that the Foreign Minister does not want to answer for the SPU, and that is far from correct, but I hope at least that the Foreign Minister is committed to following the Health Declaration and the important point there, in order to ensure that the SPU is actually skewed and invested more in the poorest countries. I also understand that it may not be in the poorest countries. It's not that easy to invest, but at least I would point out that when so many live in middle-income countries, it's even more important that a tool as important as SPU twists in that direction. It's about consensus, for which I know the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a great commitment. Finally, it is interesting to also show how Norway is raising itself. I always find it fascinating to talk about the oil tax or the natural resource tax that we have in Norway. When it is said that the tax rate on Norwegian pst. is 78 pst., everyone starts to cheat, but it also shows a little of the basis for success in Norway: that we have a well-functioning tax system and not least that natural resources fall to the country – again in order to create an inclusive growth. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses that the aid should of course be aimed at development, and that measures to promote job creation must be additional to private investment. It may be demanding in some cases, but I am sure that we will succeed in lifting job creation as an important priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1038	Thank you for a good debate, which is an exciting basis for shaping a forward-looking development policy. I would like to take this opportunity to join in the observations made by the representative Ropstad at the very end, that the rent on natural resources belongs to the population of the country where the natural resources are extracted. As I said, we have 78 pst. marginal tax on the oil and gas sector in Norway. There are many that seem to have been high, but I have never seen that there have been any problems with the applications when there are new blocks being laid out, so it seems that we have taken quite well there. That has been the prerequisite for us to have built up State pension funds abroad, and the prerequisite for that again is that we have used the real return of that fund. If we can contribute to building sound management around natural resources through the Oil for Development and Tax for Development programmes, it is important and forward-looking efforts for Norway and will be able to provide the basis for a good investment climate over time and to create new jobs. You get a little perspective on this when you look at how important tax revenue can be. According to a report I saw last day, Statoil now contributes income and tax to Angola of 28.7 billion. kr per year, while Norwegian aid is 58 million. kr. The total Norwegian development budget is 32 billion. kr. Statoil pays 28.7 billion. kr in taxes and other payments in Angola. Then it's important that that money benefits the poorest, that they are used in a forward-looking way, that they do not disappear in corruption, and so on, but it shows the potential you have. There is a broad consensus that the private sector is an important engine for value creation in developing countries. Nine out of ten jobs in developing countries are related to the private sector, and if we are to succeed in creating the 600 million new jobs that the ILO says we need to create globally by 2020 in order to maintain today's level of employment, which should not be a sleep cushion either, then creating a good basis for job creation in developing countries must be an important element of Norwegian development policy. We are reviewing the instruments that can contribute positively to job creation. I believe that the educational effort is an important element, but there are several good ideas and recordings here that we're going to take with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1047	Then there's case no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1063	I'm sorry that I've created an interpellation text that challenges the president of some new words that we don't see so often, but it's perhaps descriptive enough on the matter itself, for the sake of whether it is lifted at regular intervals in this room, it's not a big part of the public debate sail if it's the last colony we have on the globe. This is a traditional colony by not granting rights to those who live there and by draining the country for basic resources and introducing a brutal regime. In 1961, the United Nations set up its own committee to provide maritime control in colonial areas. It has done an amazing job around the world, and more and more countries have got their maritime regime, but we are left with one country, which is Western Sahara. No country in the world has recognised the illegal occupation that Morocco has done here, and what worries me is the increased frustration that we see in the group that lives here and that experiences this occupation. This is a forgotten conflict, and it should be debated at regular intervals in Stortinget. I believe that it is a direct contempt for international driving rules – and against international law – that we continue to accept that this occupation should have no consequences, and this may lead to government leaders also applying these principles elsewhere on earth. Because that's the same international law we're talking about when, for example, we're talking about. have been talking about developments in Europe in the last few months. Already in 1975 – before the invasion – the International Court of Justice of The Hague stated that Morocco and Mauritania’s claims on the territory did not keep water, that these were not real requirements, and it stressed that the principle of people’s right to maritime law should apply and should be in line with UN General Assembly resolutions. But Morocco moved in, and then the UN General Assembly said that they deeply deplored the deterioration of the situation in which the continued occupation resulted. Mauritania has declared all its claims on the territory, while Morocco continues to maintain its claims — and violates international law. The Security Council has been paralysed in this matter. An agreement had been reached as early as 1990-91, and it was a plan that was clear that the people of Western Sahara would participate in a referendum on the future of the territory, including whether the area should have maritime stability. This agreement has now been trained in years after year – from the beginning of the 1990s. After eight years, in 2000, one had managed to reach an agreement, but then suddenly Morocco drained the entire project of getting a referendum. The former U.S. Secretary of State James Baker gave — after seven years of work — the job of finding a solution between the parties in this area in 2004. Since 2012, there have not even been negotiations, but a so-called ‘shuttle diplomacy’: Special Envoys from us have repeatedly been at Polisario's place for compromises, while Polisario has met a counterpart in Morocco who has not been willing to celebrate any demands. Polisario cannot enter into new compromises if it does not have the legitimacy of its own people. The challenge is that we now have a generation of young people in Western Sahara who say that they are willing to go to war, while the international community sits silent on the sideline and only looks at the abuses that are taking place. It is the Security Council that will ultimately settle an international conflict of this variety, and the absence of pressure on Morocco is a matter of real policy. The question is how the Norwegian government should deal with a conflict that is so parked in the Security Council. My challenges to the Council of States today are firstly: it is a group called ‘Group of Friends of Western Sahara’, which is of the kind of friend group set up by the Security Council to prepare matters for the Security Council and to make the Council’s treatment more effective. In Western Sahara, the Friends Group has enormous influence over the debates in the Security Council, and it is this group of states that ultimately decides whether or not the Security Council should act. But the friends group consists mainly of friends of Morocco, namely the five countries France, Spain, the United States, Russia and the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom and the United States, relatively balanced positions are found, but in particular France — and in part Spain — are strongly pro-Morocco in its positions. And there is not a single African country in this group – none of the 80 countries that are in the United Nations today, who have experienced the history of being a colony and getting maritime rule. It is essential to change the composition of this group of friends to introduce countries more active in the defence of the legitimacy and rights of Western Sahara. An extension of the buddy group has previously been proposed but rejected by France. My question to the Council of State is whether it might be possible to make a move to change the composition of this group. It would have been very valuable, and it would have brought the matter forward. Nationalism in the Western Sahara is a fact, and most do not feel belonging to Morocco. The ongoing demonstrations in Western Sahara, in particular the massive protest wave in 2010, underline this. It's impossible to imagine a solution where you can't get with the people and the people's rights. My second challenge to the Council of State is: How can we strengthen our right of renunciation in relation to the participation of Norwegian industry in the occupation of Western Sahara? Norwegian anti-corruption policy has worked well. It has led to the withdrawal of many enterprises, and it has made it difficult for Norwegian opinion to participate in the occupation of business. It applies to both oil and fish and fish oil. However, there are still many Norwegian companies in the area, and the question is how we can make that dissuade much stronger, so that it has a greater impact on Norwegian business. I would like to add that the previous Foreign Minister from the Right had a much stronger dissuade, which was then softened by the previous government. Maybe it's time to go to the screw again? The third challenge is the human rights situation. What we see is that there are alarming and very many cases of more arbitrary imprisonment, unworthy trial and bans that restrict obvious political and civil rights. I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has previously said that this is one of the areas he has raised to the Moroccan authorities. But the UN operation in Western Sahara is one of the only UN operations where those who are there from the United Nations do not have a mandate to report abuses they are witnessing. Since the 1970s, there has been an opportunity to report such violations of human rights, but this UN operation, MINURSO, does not have it in its mandate. It would have been good both for the UN-powered camps, for the Polisario-powered camps – or for human rights violations in general – that we had more objective observers who could have reported. This year it's 200 years since we got a new constitution. Before that, Norway was a colony, a country that could be bought and sold between major powers after a war. We celebrate it because we became a free people. Norway can increase its efforts to increase the cost of international law-enforcement occupation to those who carry it out, thereby making peace talks more useful and driving. Just because of Norway's history, precisely because we know what it means to be a colony under another country, we should have our own drive to help Western Sahara. So my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is, Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1095	The next speaker is Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende. Besides, the president promises to practice new words.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1100	First, I would like to thank the representative Skei Grande for addressing the situation in Western Sahara. It continues to have negative consequences, especially for the Sahrawi population, but also for North Africa and the rest of the region. It is commendable that the representative, and not least the Left, makes it so clear that the question of Western Sahara deserves attention and support. Western Sahara is a non-autonomous area that has been on the United Nations agenda for a long time. The UN Security Council assumes that a political solution must imply the right of self-determination for the people of Western Sahara and has invited the parties to direct negotiations within the framework of the UN Charter and without any prior conditions. Norway supports the right of saharawiene to self-determination. We do this by supporting the UN-led negotiations and encouraging all parties to engage in constructive dialogue. The UN and the parties are well aware that if there is anything Norway can contribute to the negotiations, we will put it right. Negotiations have been in progress since 2007, with no results yet. In the UN Secretary-General's last report on Western Sahara from April this year, he points to the lack of progress and states that if we are in the same situation one year from now, he will call for a broader review of the negotiating framework. In this way, the Secretary-General confirms his commitment to the matter by addressing the settled situation and looking at how to better facilitate relations in order to allow a political solution. Until the negotiations can show results, it is essential to support all positive actions and forces that can help to safeguard the human rights situation in the Western Sahara. Human rights violations in Western Sahara are reported regularly. This applies in particular to freedom of expression and assembly. Norway encourages all parties to respect human rights. A National Human Rights Council has been set up with rural offices in several Western Sahara cities and established human rights training offers for police forces in the area. Morocco has now ratified human rights conventions that impose international obligations on the state for which we can hold them accountable. Morocco has opened up to UN human rights officers and has received many country visits during the last year. We will continue to encourage Moroccan authorities to strengthen their efforts for human rights in the area. There's a long way to go. At the same time, we are committed to having an open dialogue where we can express concern about the human rights violations that are being reported. Norway regularly addresses the human rights situation in Western Sahara with Moroccan authorities. If several countries clearly express similar expectations through their bilateral dialogue with Morocco, there is reason to believe that we will see results. As the representative Skei Grande had in mind, Norway advises against economic activity in Western Sahara. We do that because we believe it is important to refrain from acts that can be seen as legitimizing the current situation in Western Sahara. In this way, we can help maintain an awareness of the unexplained status of the area and the fundamental rights of the Saharan people. The UN Secretary-General's report this year stressed for the first time the need to respect the interests of the local population in relation to all the use of resources in the area. With the exception of the Netherlands, Norway is the only country in Europe that advises against such activities. I am pleased that most private actors in Norway are following this recommendation, even if it is not a legal ban. It is positive and important that Norwegian companies exercise their social responsibility in disputed areas. The representative of Skei Grande also addressed the question related to the mandate of the MINURSO forces and that they should include human rights monitoring and reporting. Norway's position in principle is that all UN operations should have a human rights mandate. As of today, the Security Council agrees that, among other things: through MINURSO, shall continue to work to maintain the truce. However, there is no agreement to extend the mandate of the United Nations forces to include human rights reporting. It is important that the parties maintain their willingness to participate in the negotiations and that MINURSO be given the opportunity to exercise its existing mandate, but it is also important that this UN force is given a mandate to monitor the human rights situation. On 29 April this year, the mandate of MINURSO was extended by one year. This year, too, a human rights component was not included in the mandate, but the Security Council used the opportunity to emphasise the need for all parties to respect and respect human rights, both in the Moroccan-controlled Western Sahara and the camps in Algeria. For the first time, freedom of speech and assembly were particularly highlighted. It is positive and testifies to the recognition of the challenges identified as particularly important to address. There should be no doubt about Norway’s support for the right of saharawiene to self-determination. We use the tools we have to put pressure on the parties, through political dialogue, support for key actors and positive driving forces or limiting Norwegian business activities in the area. And as I said, Norway, together with the Netherlands, is unfortunately the only country in Europe that has gone on a line where we strongly advise against investing in business. Furthermore, it is important to ensure that the situation is as good as possible for the affected until a solution to the conflict is reached. Norway is therefore contributing financially to human rights organisations working in the Western Sahara and to humanitarian organisations providing food and other basic services in the refugee camps in Algeria. We have also contributed for a long time to support trustbuilding measures under the auspices of UNHCR, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who is mainly concerned with facilitating and implementing cross-wall family reunions that share Western Sahara. In addition to supporting the efforts of international organisations for the people affected by the situation, Norway shall continue to maintain its consistent line of support for the UN track and the emphasis on human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1138	First, I would like to thank you for your answer. I am happy to have a foreign minister who promises human rights so high – at least in this case. I'm very happy about that, because it's one of the important challenges we have in the future. I'm going to give the Council two more direct challenges to what we see in front of us: Morocco is the only country in this region that does not have its own oil production. Now they're trying to find oil along this controversial coast. Many experts say that if you find oil there, and start extracting, you have locked the conflict for a very long time in the future. Under Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance, the oil fund was very clear in its condemnation of it: ‘Morocco has occupied Western Sahara for a number of years, despite strong condemnation from the United Nations. Following the Council’s assessment, Kerr-McGee facilitates the possible use of the natural resources in the region by Morocco. The Council considers such activities to be a ‘in particular a serious breach of fundamental ethical standards’, inter alia: because this may help to legitimise Morocco’s sovereignty requirements and thereby undermine the UN peace process.’;» That's what Per-Kristian Foss said when he was Minister of Finance and made excerpts for ethical reasons. Now we see that a very large part of what happens offshore in the area has Norwegian components. There are Norwegian seismic companies, and companies that have the oil fund as their major owner enter there. My question to the Council of State is, how are we going to exercise the obligation of renunciation strongly enough here? The Minister of Foreign Affairs may also say something about what he thinks that any oil discovery could lead to in terms of further occupation. My other question is whether the Foreign Minister is concerned about the pressure cooker – as I described – of many young people in this area, who feel that the situation is hopeless, and who may stop waiting for us in the outside world to come and help, and who think they have to take the matter into their own hands. Then I'm afraid we'll repent, and that we'll have a much bigger problem if it ends up with a real civil war in that area, and that you lose faith in the peace process that many have grown up with, but many have never seen any fruits of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1162	As I said in my first response to the interpellant, Norway advises against industrial activity in Western Sahara. We do that because we believe that it is important to refrain from actions that can be seen as legitimizing the present and unacceptable situation. With regard to the young people growing up in Western Sahara, I have a great understanding of the frustration. That's why, when we have the chance to face Moroccan authorities and the United Nations, we use the opportunity to address the situation in Western Sahara. In the case of oil and gas resources and other natural resources outside Western Sahara, it is said that since Morocco does not exercise internationally recognised sovereignty over Western Sahara, they do not initially have the right to use its resources as if it were their own. The use of resources must be in line with the wishes and interests of the local population and benefit them. Norway has followed the UN recommendation to refrain from exploiting natural resources if it does not benefit the local population in the area and is not in line with their wishes and interests. In this context, Norway has one of the most restrictive positions on commercial involvement. This is related to the desire for Norwegian industry to show great care and restraint when assessing involvement in the area. Unfortunately, in Europe alone, the Netherlands and Norway – as I replied to the interpellant – have been in favour of this type of restrictive measure. It will be important to bring with it other countries if there is to be an effective pressure against Morocco. We consider it important to refrain from acts that might be seen as legitimizing the situation in Western Sahara. It is a fact that it is very difficult for enterprises to make these assessments in practice. I would like to say, as a general comment, that we clearly see that the wishes and interests of the local people have not been safeguarded by such a type of investment on the continental shelf today. That is why we strongly advise against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1175	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, who has today brought up one of the forgotten – not to say one of the forgotten – areas of the world, namely Western Sahara. It's Africa's last colony and a scourge on the world community, part of the then king of Morocco's dream of a Great Morocco that included Western Sahara. Morocco actually moved into Western Sahara while the area was still part of Spain, in 1975. This, of course, also concerns large natural resources — fish, phosphate and possible oil and gas deposits. Today, all economic activity is controlled by the government of Morocco. They offer tax credits to Moroccan settlers in Western Sahara. Foreign companies in both petroleum and fish have been active in Western Sahara for many years, although international pressure and various actions have led to some withdrawals. Western Sahara is located between Morocco, Algeria and Mauritania, i.e. towards the Atlantic Ocean. The country was Spanish protectorate from 1884 to 1975, known as Spanish Sahara. Spain withdrew on 26 February 1976. It was after the fall of the fascists and the transition to democratic rule in Madrid. Morocco and Mauritania then took control of the area — which was also underlined by the inter-pellant. Mauritania withdrew in 1979, but Morocco was – and has tightened its grip. On 27 February 1976, the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic — SADR — was proclaimed by the Polisario Liberation Movement. The ceasefire between Morocco and Polisario in 1991 led to a division of Western Sahara, where three quarters were controlled by the occupying power. Today, the majority of Saharans live in refugee camps in Tindouf province south-west of Algeria. There's a rare amount of media coverage about these refugee camps. People who have been there – including several from the Youth Organisation of the Labour Party, the AUF, who have worked on the area for a long time – say that the refugees lack entirely basic facilities. They don't get any education, they don't have books, and they don't have writing stuff. Algeria is probably very little interested in having refugees in the country. They themselves have oil interests on the coast and really want to get these refugees back to Western Sahara. Securing literacy and schooling is important for the collective identity of the Saharan people. This is also how the growing family can get a voice, and talk about what happens to them – how they live in the camps, and what happens in Western Sahara. Morocco has also built a 2,700-km-long wall throughout the Western Sahara. It is four times as long as the wall standing in Palestine, and it is protected by some of the world's absolute largest minefield. The UN – as we have heard – has been trying since 1991 to get a referendum in Western Sahara on independence. Morocco, of course, says no. Norway has not at any time recognised Morocco’s annexation of Western Sahara. I am pleased with the foreign minister's clear statement that he will advise the Norwegian industry not to engage in business in Western Sahara. This is unchanged from the time of the red-green government. I have also noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will shed light on the humanitarian situation and on the human rights violations that are taking place in Western Sahara. It is also important that Norway works for parliamentarians, journalists and international observers to move freely in Western Sahara. The most important and most precarious case is oil drilling, which is scheduled to start in October. This could put the UN trail dead – I want to point out what the interpellant said – and will lock the situation. The rig is now in South Korea. It's important that the oil drilling doesn't start. It is also important to increase Norwegian assistance – if I can emphasise it at the end – in terms of both mine clearance and humanitarian aid in the camps. The government wants Norwegian assistance in fewer countries. Don't let it go out on Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1203	It is good that the Steps of the Left Skei Grande address this debate. This is another area where the world should focus – and always forget. It's a fact that this is an unresolved colonial question. Although there has been a truce here since 1991, there is no doubt that Morocco has annexed the land. Norway also considers this to be the case. So Norway does not consider Western Sahara to be part of Moroccan territory. The area also has a UN non-autonomous status, and most countries also do not accept Morocco's declaration that Western Sahara is part of the Moroccan state. As you know, Norway is regularly discussing with Moroccan authorities both individual cases and general human rights issues that give rise to concern. We have supported the UN operation MINURSO to also report on the human rights situation in the area. Unfortunately, as we have heard today, it has not yet been agreed to extend the mandate of the United Nations forces to include human rights reporting. The situation in Western Sahara is a cause for concern. Human rights violations, particularly those related to freedom of assembly and organisation and freedom of expression, are regularly reported. There is no doubt that Norway does not accept such violations of fundamental human rights. The UN has been working for a long time to find solutions, and the UN line in Western Sahara is to facilitate the exercise of the right of self-determination of the local population in this non-autonomous area. Norway has consistently supported the Security Council’s requests to contribute to facilitating self-determination for the Sahrawi people and invited the parties to seek a fair and lasting solution acceptable to both parties and in line with the objectives and principles of the UN Charter. Changes in the international landscape mean that we still need to think about our priorities and how we work. Recently, we have seen that instability in the economic and political situation in Europe has led to increasing human rights challenges in our neighbourhoods. It may therefore be right, as the inter-pellant addresses, that we consider whether there is more Norway to contribute to this conflict, as it is also important for us to support under the EU neighbourhood policy, which is to contribute to economic, political and social development south of our common Schengen border. As a Schengen member, Norway has its southern outer border in the Mediterranean, and the situation in northern Africa can quickly be a security threat to us too. Northern Africa, Morocco and Western Sahara are also part of our neighbourhood. In the UN Human Rights Council, we have followed up on how Morocco deals with human rights issues in Western Sahara. Last time Morocco had a land hearing in the Council of MRs, Norway called on Morocco to ensure the freedom of assembly and organisation of the Sahrawi population. Norway also recommended that Morocco invite the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and the UN Special Rapporteur on Torture to conduct land visits. In recent years, Morocco has provided access to several international human rights mechanisms, and the Special Rapporteur on Torture carried out a country visit to Western Sahara in 2012. Since then, the United Nations Working Party against arbitrary imprisonment has also visited Western Sahara, and that group, as far as I know, is going to deliver its report to the United Nations during the spring. This helps to get facts on the table about the MR situation in Western Sahara. It is also in line with the UN Secretary-General's report, which underlines the need for independent and self-monitoring of the situation in Western Sahara, both in Moroccan-controlled areas and in the camps in Algeria, as Marit Nybakk also mentioned. Much of our MR exposure in Western Sahara is through dialogue with the stakeholders. Norway will continue to work with the United Nations to implement measures to improve the situation of the local population in Western Sahara, as we heard from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is also true that, as we heard, it is only well the Netherlands and Norway who advise – in our case with regard to Norwegian business life – not to establish themselves in Western Sahara. Not least to prevent Norwegian business from contributing directly or indirectly to international crime, Norwegian emphasis has been placed on this, and, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, not to legitimize either. I am very pleased with the foreign minister's response and assurance on Norway's attitudes to the rights and intentions of saharawiene to further monitor the MR situation in Western Sahara.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1226	For a number of years, the Christian People's Party has supported the Saharawiene struggle for self-determination and independence. The UN regards Western Sahara as an unresolved colonial issue. In a decolonization process, the people of the territory must be given the opportunity to choose for themselves whether they will become independent. They must have that opportunity in a referendum, where the people themselves can choose between independence and other alternatives. Norway must have a clear position on the question of Western Sahara. We must support the UN's efforts to find a solution. We must be clear that Morocco must accept previously concluded referendum agreements. Morocco's treatment of Western Sahara is contrary to international law. We must not let this be forgotten. That is why I would like to thank the representative Trine Skei Grande for raising this interpellation, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good answer. Today, parts of Western Sahara are still occupied by Morocco. The people's legitimate right to self-determination has not been fulfilled. Half the population lives in refugee camps in Algeria. There's the situation precarious. The humanitarian consequences of the unresolved conflict are great. Norwegian researchers from the University of Oslo and Akershus have been conducting nutrition research in the refugee camps for a decade as part of an aid project run by the Church's Emergency Aid. Researchers have found that the prevalence of disease deficiency is high, particularly among women and children. Every year, the UN High Commissioner for Refugees stresses that they need additional international assistance to fulfil their mandate to help these refugees. In its last report on Western Sahara to the Security Council, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon wrote that there is an urgent need to finance the High Commissioner's programmes in Algeria. For many years, the government has cooperated with the Church's Emergency Aid on projects in the refugee camps. Many benefit not only from the nutritional assistance of the projects, but from the nutrition strategies developed by the Church's Emergency Aid in cooperation with local Sahrawi authorities. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we ask the government to continue and strengthen support for the Church's Emergency Aid programmes. Spain did not provide for a proper decolonisation of the area at Franco’s death. That is why there is considerable involvement in the Western Sahara case in the Spanish people. For decades, Spanish civil society has provided assistance to fill gaps in multilateral assistance. The Church's emergency aid also performs such a function. The financial crisis in Spain has led to a significant reduction in aid from Spain in recent years. In this situation, it is particularly important that Norway increase its efforts in refugee camps. Since there is now a conversion in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Christian People's Party will particularly stress the importance of ensuring that humanitarian aid to Western Sahara does not fall out. Former KrF leader Dagfinn Høybrätten took up the West Sahara case in the Stortinget Question Time in 2010. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre then confirmed that Norway's free trade agreement with Morocco does not apply to goods from Western Sahara. This position also has other Nordic countries and the United States. Since the beginning of the 2000s, it has been Norway's position that we do not conclude agreements with Morocco that legitimise Morocco's claims on Western Sahara. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made a firm statement today. I also mention this because the EU has a different position, mainly because France and Spain are able to push through their positions in the EU system. As a result, the EU will start up fishing in Western Sahara for the first time in several years. A large minority in the European Parliament recently voiced their opposition to this. We should also protest against the behaviour of the European Union on the Norwegian side. Paying Morocco a billion dollars to fish outside Western Sahara undermines the UN peacekeeping effort. I would therefore like to end by using the opportunity to ask whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs too believes this is contrary to international law as well as to the law of the sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1249	Let me first also thank the interpellant, as it is called, for a very good post and a good review of the situation in the Western Sahara, which I think I can fully join. I also thought it was a good answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who clearly did the right thing for what I perceive as quite defining Norwegian positions, and showed some of the work we are in. In addition to the fact that there is a completely meaningless occupation that has no international support, it is also a very serious human rights situation. When it comes to extending the MINURSO mandate – as Morocco is now opposed, but which could actually have some support, and could actually be very meaningful and important in the current situation – I see it as very important if we can prioritise working on it in the short term. Otherwise, there's a little reflection I want to relate to it. Some conflicts in the world are unlikely to be difficult to resolve because there are so very strong major interests associated with them, and they get so enormous attention because of it, while others are hard to resolve because there are so few major interests associated with doing something with them, and they get so little attention because of it. The Western Sahara is in the situation that if some heavier countries, or countries with strong commitment, like Norway, might use a lot more resources, one could actually move forward in that conflict, putting more pressure on it. So there might be reason to wonder whether Norway should not put greater emphasis on and greater emphasis on the broad, cross-political unity that we also have on our positions in the conflict. There's a bunch of things that are listed here that we could do, but what I think I want to use my speech time on, is the track that a most open-minded person sees, where we could play a role beyond what we're doing today, and that's in the economic area. Aker Solutions has delivered an estimated 300 million pieces of equipment. kr to a drilling ship to be used in the off-shore drilling. Aker Solutions has acknowledged this, and said that they had no idea when they delivered the equipment. The leader of the Western Sahara Support Committee, Erik Hagen, thinks it was obvious that the ship was to be used there, but let it lie. It's done, and it's a serious matter. And so is the fact that the fish company Sjövik from Midsund has fished in the area since 2006, and the last time I was away, they said they didn't intend to pull out. Then we have the situation that the US energy company Cosmos Energy is planning a test drilling this year, and that the state pension fund abroad is one of the 20 largest owners in the company. Furthermore, the French oil company Total has business in Western Sahara, and the Ethics Council has warned that they will assess whether the French oil company Total should be there. I can imagine asking the Foreign Minister whether it is conceivable that Norway might be able to go a little bit heavier in economic terms to work here. Here we can have a series of tools. When it comes to Norwegian companies, I think we should consider whether at least Norwegian authorities should address the question with them, inform them about the international situation and whether the Norwegian attitude, sit down, convene a meeting. In a partially state-owned company like Aker Solutions, we can expect it more directly, but it is also possible to take that kind of initiative towards other companies. I want to maintain that it is the Ethics Council that is going to make its thorough assessments and extracts, but it is clear that the government has the possibility to ask the Ethics Council to give priority to certain matters on the basis of certain regulations. I can imagine asking the Foreign Minister if he can't imagine asking for such matters to be evaluated quickly, and that one should place great emphasis on getting decisions from the Ethics Council. My experience is that few things have as great international prominence as the Petroleum Fund, and it can play a role. So I'll say in the end that it was, among other things. the small fora of the Western Sahara Support Committee as previously this year put it on the media agenda by providing this information. And what do I know – maybe it's also so that they contact more than me, for example. the interpellant, and thus indirectly encourage the matter to come up here. I say that because we have a lot of these kinds of organizations in Norway, which are a source of debate and knowledge on such issues. They are largely based on a voluntary basis, but many also receive information support – a social welfare scheme that I have previously mentioned here, and which may be a bit annoying for politicians sometimes, but which is very important to spread knowledge and ensure debate and to bring forward these kinds of issues that otherwise get little attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1270	I am very pleased that one of the forgotten conflicts in the world, one of those that the Left often tries to nominate at peace prices to raise them to the agenda, is not forgotten in this room. I am pleased that so many parties chose to participate in the debate. I am also pleased that it seems as if you agree quite on what the measures should be. I just have to point out to the representative Solhjell's little nice about the information support at the end, which I think was appropriate to insert right here. Clearly, the commitment we have is that we both have trust elected members in our own party who are also engaged in such groups, and that such groups over time build networks and ensure that Norwegian politicians are up-to-date on issues that may not be on the front pages of the newspapers. They do an impressive good job, and have good professionalism in a lot of what they do. I believe that if the Council of State is to go home and make a yellow note in its office, which is headed by the Western Sahara, I think the working list on the yellow note is quite clear: we must extend the mandate of the MINURSO to human rights reporting. I believe that the points of the Christian People's Party on the Law of the Sea and the European Union are also quite important. It is an important point for Norway that we raise the principles of the law of the sea high. It can give requisition to Norway if we can't make sure that the international community actually promises it in a principle and good way. Furthermore, I think we should make sure that we expand the group of friends to someone who knows what it means to be in the colony and has come out of it. And the last point is how we are actively getting other countries, as the Foreign Minister raised, to use the same anti-corruption policy towards Morocco's occupation of Western Sahara that we have, but also that we are able to get the big oil efforts not to be Norwegian-initiated or supplied with Norwegian technology. Past companies that have been in difficulties to act in this area have often felt that consumer power has turned them back. Some of them have stated neither political pressure nor advice from the U.D., but the fact that customers do not actually want to buy products that they know come from the occupied area. Maybe we're going to be the consumer power we, as a nation, to the big companies that are now in the oil field. I would like to thank you for the debate, and hope that the Foreign Minister has the same yellow note that I have when the day is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1284	I can assure the representative Skei Grande that after today's interpellation rounds my office is filled with yellow post- IT-notes! There are many important things to follow up – including the situation in Western Sahara. On the specific issues, I would like to emphasise once again that, since Morocco does not exercise internationally recognised sovereignty over Western Sahara, they do not initially have the right to use the resources of the region as if it were their own. Resource use must be in line with the wishes and interests of the local population and benefit them. This is and must be the basis for EU country action in this area. These are international guidelines. Norway has followed the UN recommendations to refrain from exploiting natural resources if this does not benefit the local population in the area. And we have advised Norwegian business to operate in Western Sahara. Unfortunately, we have only received support from the Netherlands in Europe to adopt the same position, but we are working to make this visible to several countries. As far as this group of friends is concerned, it's basically, as far as I understand, a closed group. But, of course, we can look at whether this group is interested in expanding membership also in countries that take the position that Norway is taking on the question of Western Sahara. As for the different companies that were mentioned, I just want to say two words related to Aker Solutions. I expect, and as for the other companies in and on their own, Norwegian companies to become familiar with the dissuades of doing business in Western Sahara. The vast majority of Norwegian companies do. Of course, they show that only the Netherlands and Norway have such a deterrent in Europe, but we are clear about it. I also notice that Aker Solutions has stated that they would not have concluded the agreement if they had been aware that the equipment would be used for oil exploration outside Western Sahara. I think that's important. For several of the points raised, we will ensure that Norwegian business life is constantly familiarised with the dissuade underlying Norwegian policy. With regard to the mandate of the UN-Minurso, MINURSO, we should follow it up in the future, and we would like to take an additional round to make sure that we get wider support next time so that human rights can enter the mandate. But of course, the Security Council and permanent members are free to veto if they do not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1301	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1315	I give the floor to Mrs Klinge, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Inge Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1318	As the case-leaders in this matter, I am delighted to present a unanimous opinion from the Committee. Essentially, I can refer to the Committee's comments, but I still find reason to make some comments myself. Electronic object lighting has been tried as a test system for some professional users when it comes to the clearing of money. For a long time, the state’s mapping agencies have used a lot of resources to incorporate this scheme. The experience you've gained has basically our positive. That's good. The thorough preparation is now the basis for permanent arrangements. We live at a time when communication with the public is becoming more and more digitized. Incidents also expect greater electronic communication and accessibility from the public. The changes proposed by the Stortinget Committee are necessary and timely. A reform with an electronic message of things is the future. Having a well-functioning governance system is at the heart of a well-functioning financial market. The fact that one can get legal protection for one's own dispositions is a security both for the one given rights, for creditors and for third parties. The day on which the legal protection system is weakened, the column of welfare will fall out. It has been important for me not to make arrangements for schemes that may weaken the credibility of the base book. I think that the bill Stortinget now has to deal with, precisely to make sure that the base book will also be credible in the future. New technologies and processes can also be applied to established schemes. The reform now provides for users to register legal formations electronically, one should not send the papers to the law enforcement authority. The recording of this development, in my opinion, already occurred when a decision was taken to co-localise the objectization of fixed ownership at the Staten Kartverk. For me, it has been important that a document is still available in a traditional way by submitting it on paper. This is a system that you have to expect that many will use in the super coded future. No one should feel excluded from being able to light things. Other countries, e.g. In Denmark, when they implemented the reform, they chose to say that everything would be done electronically. I think that was unfortunate. A lot of work is now left before the scheme can become fully operational. Many clarifications are to be made through regulatory work, and I would like to highlight the issue here relating to electronic signatures. I expect the government to do a thorough job when this is the case. In this mode, a secure read must be used to avoid situations that increase the risk of identity fraud and other fraud. I see that the system will come into force, and I will follow the regulatory work of the government closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1353	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1360	This representative’s proposal concerns a new Agder prison, draft selections for the East and Western countries, and a comprehensive plan for increased prison capacity. There are three proposals from the Labour Party, which they are left alone in the vote. I expect them to explain for themselves their proposals. So it's a unanimous committee that's committed to strengthening prison capacity. Today's challenge with detonated capacity and long pay queues is that it can take a long time before convicted people get a zone, people who were supposed to be in custody are released, prisoners have to be transported around the country to find free capacity, and we also know that the coverage in prisons is too high. This can go beyond rehabilitation, because we know that adequate settlement capacity is crucial for good criminal enforcement. That's why we're working on continuing to reduce the pay queue. Efforts must be made to address the short-term challenges of long-term queues, but the Committee also believes that permanent solutions need to be found through new prison sites. We point out that it is important that settlement capacity is good enough in all regions and that therefore capacity needs to be strengthened in the regions that have a sub-covery. Last year, the Directorate of Criminal Welfare provided a capacity plan for criminal services on the need for increased settlement capacity. It states that there is a need for more prison sites. The Committee considers it important to give the capacity plan a broad technical and political base. We agree that there is an important need for a comprehensive plan and concrete measures to put in place adequate settlement capacity. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are pleased with the announced big message coming to the harvest. Then I go to the Christian People's Party's view in the last few minutes. We are very pleased with the unanimity that is around the importance of permanent solutions to solve the reconciliation queue. As I was inside, and as the committee says, it's important for several reasons. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that we believe it is right to consider the use of OPS in the construction of new prisons. It must be fully possible to plan and build prisons in a shorter time than is currently the case. These points have to be answered in the big news – a big message that the Christian People's Party, as I said, is very happy to come, and that we have been demanding for a long time. I must be allowed to remind you that a proposal was made on this in the Stortinget no later than a year ago, which the Workers' Party, SV and the Senterpartiet voted down. Had it been adopted then, we had this big message and the opportunity to adopt the construction of new prisons now. In the case of new prisons in Agder, what we write in the notes is what the Christian People's Party wants. In the 2013 capacity plan, Agder is presented as one of the places where new prisons are needed. We know that there is a sketch of a sub-coverage of approx. 180 places in 2022. Some of the main point is that about 70–75 people in the Agder police district, at any time sons in Rogaland. In view of the best possible rehabilitation, the settlement is close to home, and the removal of the pay queue is important for new prisons in Agder. Now that we know there's already a big message coming in a few months where we're getting investigations and the overall decision-making basis, it's right to make the decision. That is when we should discuss and decide how new prisons should be built.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1383	Prison is the symbol of a society's handling what's right and what's wrong. Our legal system is based on non-discrimination, predictability and the imposition of penalties as soon as possible. This creates security in the form that those who do something wrong are removed from society and son their punishment, so that they do not represent any danger to the individual, society as a whole, and above all that they do not represent any threat or danger to those who have been victims of criminal acts. This is why the number of prison sites is about predictability, non-discrimination, security and security. The previous government was busy with this. Therefore, there is a fully developed capacity plan from the criminal service with clear recommendations in the Minister of Justice’s drawer. It's an act of refusal to leave it. All those who came to the Storting hearing in the matter were in agreement with two things: There is a need for more prison sites. They should come quickly. The number of people waiting for compensation has gone up and down somewhat in the last decade. When the previous government took over power in 2005, an estimated 2,500 were in line. When this government took over, the queue was approx. 1 200. The previous government took more action, e.g. electronic housing, drug treatment in prisons and better means of contact with relatives and children. Our proposal to introduce the Youth Penalty was continued, and the Minister of Justice will have the honour to do so. However, the fine service was stopped. Instead, we got duplication, a system Knut Storberget removed in 2008. Our government put money on the table to a new prison in Halden, which was opened in 2010. The capacity increased by 750 places in total under the previous government. Women may pay the highest price. They're few inmates, compared to men. Studies show that they have more and more challenges. Under conditions of atonement that are not suitable for women, diseases and traumas can be intensified when they have to zone with men. We have a challenge for young people who commit criminal acts. Our government opened a youth unit in Bergen, which I have just visited. There is a good job in turning unwanted behavior and helping to grow what is good for these young people. Working in prison is demanding. Many competent people in criminal matters have their jobs there. I've visited someone. Arendal prison is built in the middle of the 1800s, and in my opinion, it only has to be the employees' burning commitment to the prisoners who make them work there. Working conditions were very difficult. In Kristiansand, there is ‘conclusion’. It is also elsewhere in the country. These have to go away. We need a few more places for the young, better housing conditions for women, increased focus on rehabilitation and more knowledge of the consequences of duplication. We need modern prisons that provide good employment for employees. That is why the Labour Party is impatient. We will continue to investigate the needs of the West and the East and as quickly as possible the construction of new prisons. So the challenges are big. They require a lot of grip. We need a Minister of Justice to act quickly. The number of settlement sites needs to be increased. The working party will continue because it has to do with security, predictability and non-discrimination. Then we take the big measures, which are the construction of prisons. We can see that the Minister of Justice is not taking a great deal of action. The Minister of Justice seems to be a minister for the little things. He can double, make plans and investigate. For the harvest, the position whispers. In the government there are harvest visas that apply. There will be a message for Stortinget – it will be processed, heard, and perhaps money will be allocated. Time's up. The insecurity of many members of staff in prisons, victims and those who are going to zone, feel, unforeseeable and waste time and the economy of police, judges and employees in prisons will continue as long as the Minister does not take the major steps in criminal policy. The Christian People's Party chooses to go against a proposal they are for – and for which they were for, until it became concrete – for collaborative reasons. I find it very regrettable, because we agree on the goal. But the Christian People's Party sings, along with the position, harvest visas and puts its trust in the days of the yellowing leaves. This is the day when the government and the Minister of Justice set the enforcement force to improve the security of the people behind lock and beat. Whether the key is rejected too well, it remains to be seen. The desire and plans for new prisons are present, but the will, or perhaps the ability – it is not good to say for outsiders – does not extend. There is a lot of other things that require money – the tax cuts of $4 billion. For example, it is possible to use kr. built many prison sites for. I refer to the proposals from the Workers' Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1424	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1427	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for having handled the matter well in the Committee. I would also like to thank the proposers on this matter for having thus raised an important debate in Stortinget, and for giving us the opportunity to discuss an important societal theme. Putting the queue and the settlement capacity on the agenda is absolutely necessary. It is gratifying that after the government change, we have seen a decline in the pay queue, after we had seen an increase in the pay queue until the government change. Starting the discussion now on the long-term measures to reduce the pay queue in the future is necessary. We need greater settlement capacity – that means the debate in this case so far that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget – and that concerns both settlement capacity for settlement after judgment and custody. Therefore, for a long time, the Right has wanted a big message inviting Stortinget to acquire ownership of both the problem description and the way to solve the challenges and to put them in context with a difficult priority of society’s resources. We have to use the resources of society where the need is greater and the impact is best. It's true in this case, as in all other cases, when we manage the community's resources. Together with the Progress Party, and with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, we therefore proposed in the autumn of 2012, in the 2013 state budget, that a big message on what this matter is about was already promoted at the time. It was confounded by the red-greens. We proposed the exact same thing, with the same support, a year ago. Once again, we were voted down by the red-green majority. Minister of Justice Grete Faremo said on 10 June last year that it was not necessary for the Stortinget to deal with a comprehensive plan for the capacity of criminal services, because: ‘Any proposals for the creation of new posts, with proposed appropriations, will be submitted to the Stortinget in an ordinary way. Therefore, the government does not propose to submit the proposal for the capacity plan for consideration in the Storting.’» That means – with reference to the previous speaker – that the red-green had the key, but they didn't use it. Time has passed, unfortunately. It is therefore surprising that we in the Right note that the Workers' Party, with this proposal, has, first of all, turned its back on the issue of the collapse of future settlement capacity. That's good. Secondly, we note that the Workers' Party, in a red-green position, has delayed Storting's possibility of a complete debate on the capacity of criminal services by opposing previous proposals. That's not good. Thirdly, we note that a proposal is being put forward here today, which is, in fact, a building decision without budgetary or overall anchoring. It is irresponsible – not because it concerns Agder, of course, but because it will be a whole new form of work that Stortinget adopts a billion projects, a project perhaps closer to 2 billion. kr, without a complete basis for decision on the table. It'll be something completely new. On the right, the debate on a new prison in Agder warmly welcomes. It is good that the region so wholeheartedly supports such a possible project. That is why I am looking forward to the Stortinget getting a big message about the capacity needs of criminal services. In this way, we can discuss the matter on the basis of how we can best solve a significant need for more settlements, based on where the need is greater. I am sure that Agder will be an important part of that debate in the future, because then we can also discuss and debate this against the whole elsewhere. It is an overall approach, which provides a good basis for crime prevention in order to solve its important societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1445	Let me first, like the previous speaker, praise the case rapporteur for having solved the matter. There have been good and sensible comments written, which will form the basis for discussing and dealing with the paper on prisons coming to the harvest. But it is very special to hear the spokesperson of the Workers' Party, Kari Henriksen, here today, talk about the fact that it is now important that the government acts quickly, and that the Council of State must show its power of action. It's a fact that for eight years, the Labour Party ruled the Ministry of Justice. How many prison places did the Workers' Party decide to build on these eight years? - Zero. Then it's very special that you now come and ask for quick action, and that something should happen. But it's great that there's a unanimous growth today that wants to move ahead in the construction of new prisons, and it's great that it's now a unanimous growth that looks forward to its own big message about the situation and the capacity of prisons. It hasn't been like that, because in the course of these eight years that the Workers' Party was overthrown, they couldn't put forward a plan for the Storting – they wouldn't, they didn't think it was a matter for the Storing; it was something you were supposed to do in the Ministry of Justice. There you sat and stayed for eight years, and nothing came out of it. So – after being in opposition for a short time, a few months – the suggestions come. That's great, but where's the money? It is not free to build prisons. A new prison will cost well over a billion dollars. kr. When, next week, the Financial Committee presents its position in relation to the revised State budget, is it that the Workers' Party has provided for its proposal for a new prison in Agder – we are pleased to see the position of the Financial Committee – or is it such that the Workers' Party has intended that the proposals they included in this proposal for a representative be covered by the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, which they will be included in the harvest? We're looking forward to looking at the containment, because if there's no detection for these proposals, this is to throw blues in the eyes of people in Agder and elsewhere in Norway. Then it's just a game for the gallery. We now understand that the Labour Party chooses to give priority to a new prison in Agder in front of everything else. Without the broad debate being given, one now chooses to say that we should have a new prison in Agder. This means that new places are now being prioritised in the rest of the country, that priorities are being lowered, among other things. Oslo and Eastland, where there is the greatest need for new places, or is it such that the Workers' Party comes with several billion dollars in addition to the harvest? We have to keep an eye on this. The representative of the Labour Party also addresses the situation of female prisoners. So it took eight years in the government offices to realize that something has to be done. It is commendable that you have finally come to that recognition, but it is strange that you did not do anything when you had power and opportunity and were put in the government offices. The situation of criminal justice is serious. It is serious that we have over a thousand people waiting for atonement and that criminals who were to be held in custody are released. But that situation has not occurred overnight. It's been like this for years while the Workers' Party ran the Justice Department. Now we've got a government that's taking hold. In the fall, there's the big shot. Remuneration agreements have been concluded for foreign prisoners with several countries in Europe. Dialogue was established with Sweden to look at the possibility of renting prisons. Cells were doubled and 88 new prison sites were created in the current state budget. And more prison sites are to be built. But for the first time in history, the Stortinget will have the opportunity to debate the whole debate on prisons and progress, and that is something that the Progress Party and I really look forward to. Let me commend the Christian People's Party, which has given its support to the government's thoughts on progress in this matter. We all see the need to do something — including in Agder — with prisons from the mid-19th century and too few places. Even I'm going to take a trip to West-Agder and East-Agder in August to look at the situation there, and of course the situation of Agder and the South has to be addressed in the big news. Unfortunately, what the Labour Party is trying to do today is a game for the gallery, but I think it is good that after eight years in the government offices they have come to the realization that it is time for more prison places in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1464	For all the years I've been on the Storting, prison capacity has been a recurring theme. At first it was in the positive direction that the Red-Green Government and former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget made a formidable effort to bring down the cows of reconciliation. Unfortunately, it was not possible for our government to keep talking down on the particularly low level that we actually achieved in a good period of time. The problem has several sides. In many places, there is a need for improvements and extensions, and elsewhere, there is a need for a whole new prison. It is also an important element that undercapacity has grown due to an increasing number of foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons. This is again very much associated with missing border controls after we entered the Schengen cooperation a few years ago. Restoring a better border control is probably more difficult today with the bulk of today’s population than building new prisons — and new prisons really need one. Agder was clearly identified as one of the most needed areas, and the Center Party clearly supports the job of planning and building a new prison that will start as soon as possible. I myself have visited the prison in Arendal, and there is at least no doubt in me that something has to happen. We want concrete measures to build prison sites to start rapidly, and that this should be based on professional assessments provided in the crime services capacity plan, which was presented by the previous government in 2013. I hope that the warning message will be a good tool for our future prison policy, but will also stress that this ongoing message work will not prevent the necessary action from being taken quickly from now on. Things take time, and we shouldn't let it go unnecessarily long. The representative, Kari Henriksen, pointed out that we did well to increase prison capacity, among others. electronic housing – and I refer to the former government. We need to get even more of this system. I would like to point out that the need is very great also in parts of the country other than in Agder. The sea and the river Ålesund are two talking examples of this. Previous posts, by the representative of Leirstein, were a blazing post, and I always have the sense of politicians having fun. However, I would like to point out that although the temperature in this room is partly high in the debate today, it is linked to who has done what, and also to who has not done anything – the latter is totally irrelevant when it comes to our government, because we did a lot – the capacity plan that came last year is a particularly good tool for what we are going to do in the future. The plan came last year, and now it's up to us in Stortinget to form multiple numbers in budget to follow up that plan. We're going to give that advice as soon as possible – that's my clear message.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1481	Through this proposal, the proposers focus on a very important area of justice policy, namely sufficient prison capacity. For a long time, there has been a problem that we have too little prison capacity, and there are many negative outcomes — among others. This leads to long settlement cows, which are negative both for society and for individuals, who have to wait a long time before a sentence can be imposed and you can continue your everyday life. It also leads to a lot of people staying in the police prison for too long. Repeatedly, the Norwegian authorities have received criticism that we have too many people left over. Now we've also got a verdict against us because of this. Some measures have already been implemented aimed at reducing the pay queue, but there is no need to build new prison sites to meet future needs. I am therefore glad that a big message will be sent to the autumn about, among other things. the capacity of criminal justice. For us, it is important that we not only talk about duplication and detention abroad as measures to bring down the cows; we also need to start work on building one prison or more new ones. I have a great deal of understanding that the South is expecting a new prison in the region, both because the need for a new prison in the South is great, and because the Red-Green government went a long way in promising that the next prison would come in one of the Agder counties. Also the left has many committed people in Agder who are fighting to get a prison in place, and the needs of the South must be included in the treatment of the Great Britain message for the autumn. However, other parts of the country and regions also need both the upgrading of existing prisons and the expansion of prison sites. This applies, for example, to the Haugaland, who has also worked for a while to modernise prison to increase prison capacity. The construction of prisons is a major investment and therefore requires agreement between the budgetary parties. We are therefore not going to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal today, but we are looking forward to the fall's big news, where we will have a comprehensive plan on how to increase prison capacity. Then we take South Africa's needs into this treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1501	I strongly support the fact that one in the policy will agree on the facts, in order to discuss which policy solutions are the most optimal. That's why I want to contribute a little bit, because after the claim from the Workers' Party that they set up 750 seats, I've asked the department to go through and see what actually happened in the eight years. The fact is that 896 seats were created under the red-green government in eight years, and it closed down approximately. 400 places, that's a net growth in the number of places. 500, of which 250 were the opening of Halden Prison, decided by Bondevik II. The 250 other places were EK places, i.e. electronic control. That means that when the representative Leirstein says that there was not a single closed prison place built during the eight-year period of power of the red-green government, that's right. Then I'm very happy that the Workers' Party is now very busy improving its efforts and building more closed prisons and prisons, and we're going to contribute to that. I would also like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and good job and a good and transparent article here. I'm very concerned that we're going to build prison grounds where there's a need for it. All the representatives who have been up in the pulpit have said that there is a need to build more prisons. The main challenge is that there is not just a need in Agder. There is a need in Oslo, in the east, in the west, in northern Norway, in central Norway and in the southernmost parts of Norway — the whole country actually needs increased capacity. Then I think it's an idea to evaluate this in an overall context. The fact that for the first time in the autumn, the Stortinge will have the opportunity to discuss how to look at prison expansion and capacity growth in criminal care in a long-term perspective is an incredibly good contribution to this. The existence of a capacity plan with background figures from 2012 is correct. The challenge with the capacity plan is that it is short-term. I believe it is important that the Storing Communication also address the long-term challenge of how crime development and population growth become the different places. Then we might have to think 20, 30 and 40 years in advance to get a proper and thorough review of the long-termity of future criminal care capabilities. I therefore think it is good that we should come back to it later this fall. The representative Klinge also told me that she had been visiting Arendal prison and was convinced that something had to be done. Yes, you can visit many prisons around and very quickly be convinced that there is a lot that needs to be done. In 2013, an analysis was carried out to show that the maintenance period in Norwegian prisons is between 3.3 and 4.4 billion. kr. It's a huge maintenance run, which dramatically increases the risk of criminal care. So in addition to building new capacity, there's an urgent need to make sure that we don't lose the old one. We also need to maintain the old prisons. For example, the state of the two of the institutions in the Oslo area, Ullersmo prison and Oslo prison, are very poor, with large maintenance delays, and the two prisons alone account for about 25 pst. of the total capacity of high-security prison sites. In many ways, they form a kind of spine in the prison and custody capacity of the eastern region. Such a maintenance phase as experienced by these prisons is a major risk factor for the entire criminal justice system. That is why it is important to make sure that we use the time effectively and that we ensure development where there is a greater need for development. We have already launched a KVU for the eastern region, and together with the previous concept selection investigation for the Buskerud, Telemark and Agder counties, this will give a pretty good picture of the situation. Further work on the establishment of new prisons should be seen in the light of this. The plan is that this investigation will be completed in the first half of 2015. Then we have to have more conceptual investigations in the wake of the presentation and the follow-up of the notified criminal health report. So when the representative Henriksen says that we need a Minister of Justice who acts quickly, I can promise that I will act faster than the red-green government managed to deliver in eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1517	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1520	It is good to note that the Minister will act quickly, although he has now postponed the first rapid action he could take. And then we'll see how it goes on. In his reply to the Committee, the Minister of Justice pointed out that he wanted a 20-30 year perspective. It was also the signals he now gave in connection with the capacity plan, when he referred to it. My question is, what kind of deception or disturbance can start building a new prison now, creating a long-term plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1527	I have not therefore been subjected to the first rapid measures, I have already implemented measures that have ensured that we have 88 more prison sites available in 2014. I think that's a pretty useful start. In addition, we work in the medium term with building within existing walls, and we work in the long term with the staging message that is now coming. The conclusion is that today, if it is decided in the Storting that Agder prison should be given priority over all other capacity extensions in this area, it will bind up the budgetary resources and governance of the beginning and where it will come from. I don't think it's right. I find it hard to understand that the Labour Party, which has had eight years in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, and which itself has not managed to build a single closed prison place, today says that it is exactly Agder that is the most important thing, when we know that, for example. The capacity challenges in the area we are currently in are at least the same size, in fact the largest country. That's why it's important to see in this plan where we're going to start, because it's also about prioritisation of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1534	What I understand is that the Minister of Justice is concerned about the investment in prison, but 4 billion. It is possible to afford tax credits, and that is a priority. Can we expect the Minister to see to it that there is funding for planning and building new prisons during this four-year period? The minister says they'll build, they say they'll do things quickly, but the only thing we hear is worry about money and how big it is, and now the minister also says that it might be that the needs elsewhere are bigger. Does he think that the plan that exists and the investigations that have been carried out by professional bodies are crazy? And what's wrong? Police Norway in the Agder region has sent letters to the Minister saying that there is no need for further plans. Paragraph 2: Will he ensure that there will be funding during the four-year period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1539	First of all, I can see that this government has proposed to the Stortinget both tax havens and large investments. So the previous government was unable to prioritize the construction of a single closed prison place with the level of taxation we have. That's what makes me a little frustrated about just the very sharp approach that the Workers' Party has in this case, where it's now obviously just putting the drawer in the ground in Agder and starting to build. If that were the case, you might have thought about doing it five to six years ago, maybe the prison would have almost finished. I know that a collective judiciary in Agder is engaged in building prisons in Agder. You're also busy building prisons in the West, you're also in the East, you're in the Middle Norway, and you're in the North Norway. There are capacity challenges across the line. It's a capacity challenge that has built up over time, and since the previous government didn't take that problem seriously, this government is going to do it, and the challenges we have to solve are now much bigger than if the previous government had prioritised the same way as the representative Henriksen now says it will do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1544	I see that the story can be a little different when one is in position and in opposition. It's a bit fun to see that the representatives of the Progress Party in the Southland were the ones who actually showed where this prison was going to stand, and then I figured they had insurance up in their own party that there would be appropriations, but they didn't. My question goes on again: Here the Minister of Justice says all the time that we haven't done anything. But when it comes to funding – and that’s what we’re talking about – our government actually put money on the table to a new prison. We have heard from the Minister of Justice that he is concerned about the size of the investments. When the Bondevik government planned a new prison in Halden and it was put at risk, it was precisely with the background in the proposals of the Progress Party to come up with new plans to explore other ways of building. So the Bondevik administration didn't get any money, but we did. Can we get a guarantee from the Minister of Justice that money will be allocated to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1551	It's too tempting: it's not the government that grants money. It's the Stortinge that gives money to different projects. I must have been very unclear in my statements if I have stated that I am concerned about the investments. I'm worried about the lack of investment over time in criminal care, which means that we now have to make a much bigger boost. When you have a maintenance allowance in the prison service of 3,3 to 4,4 billion. kr to maintain today's capacity, it creates challenges even when building new ones. It is quite clear that in the current government we see the context of the criminal case chain. This has not been done by the previous government. I'm not saying that nothing has been done, because something has been done, among other things. 250 places such as electronic control, but it does not help to solve the major challenges within the closed prison capacity. Of course, the fact that I say we should give priority to this also means that we want to add up to investing in new prisons in Norway in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1560	It is always nice to right that the previous opposition party will check its way down when they come into government. Of course, this also applies to the Center Party, so I shouldn't be a claim. But it's polite anyway! The step-by-step party shall be the judicial party above all and have a slightly larger drop height than others in that way. When the need is so great, one in my opinion must build prisons several places in parallel. Is the Council of State so little ambitious that he believes that starting in Agder leads to the start of a few or no other project in parallel? To ask the question something clearer: does he think that a launch in Agder is a threat to other projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1567	Let me first say that I appreciate the fact that the representative Klinge believes that I have checked myself down a little. I have been accused of the opposite of this pulpit earlier. I believe that a decision today to build prisons in Agder will be a threat to other prisons, because we have a limited investment capacity, and we have to look at this whole thing. So I'm not saying that we're just going to build one prison, but that's what the Storting needs to look at when they get to present the whole picture. I'm glad the Center Party, for example. in this setting has shown that there are also capacity challenges in More. There is the situation in almost all geographical areas in this country — there is too little capacity. That is why we should look at this in the long term and see where investment must come first. Now we've started KVU for the eastern region, precisely because this is one of the areas with the very largest lag. Then, based on the message that we're making, we have to see where you're going to go, instead of walking around, like the previous government did, pretending to be building prison places everywhere, while they didn't deliver a single one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1574	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1579	One agrees that sufficient prison capacity is important for legal certainty and the need for increased prison capacity has been demonstrated through the capacity plan of the Criminal Service presented in 2013. The capacity plan of criminal services provides a professionally sound picture of the need for new prison sites in Norway and, in my view, provides a sufficient basis for further planning and deployment of new prison sites. Furthermore, a KS1 report on prison capacity has been carried out in Agder, Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold, which concludes that 300 new prison sites should be built on Agder. With this background, the Stoltenberg II government decided to continue the process of building one or two new prisons with a total of 300 places on Agder. I must say today that I am disappointed that the new government has now stopped these plans. The critical situation for setting up a new prison in Agder is clearly and strongly underlined in a letter sent to the Minister of Justice on 27 May from the professional authorities, signed by the police chief, the First State Attorney, the sorenner and the Bar Association on Agder. Here it is clearly stated that no further investigations are needed, now it is necessary to put action behind the investigations. The same point of view on the precarious situation is also seen in the presence of elected members of the criminal justice community. Among other things, care prisoners still have to be released in order to give room to new apprehensions, as well as unworthy settlement conditions and follow-up. A whole region, with 30 rapporteurs and the two rapporteurs from the Right, now demands action for a new prison in Agder. What disappoints me is that over the years the Workers' Party has been locally criticised by representatives of current government parties for not being able to put in place a decision on the construction of new prisons in Agder. And so when our government decided this in 2013, the same local representatives of the current government parties and cooperation parties come and signal that they will vote against the proposal and want new investigations, which in turn create uncertainty in the decisions that have already been taken, and this also in a period when the building market locally screams on mission. Now the government should show its executive power and not an investigative force, which we are still witnessing. Let's get started with the process of building new prisons in Agder now, a prison that will benefit the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1597	I understand the commitment to building a new prison in Agder, but I don't understand that a person should try to get a decision on the construction of a new prison in this way. There are several places in the country where the need for prison places is great. This is described through the media as being a long-term custodian on smooth cell, or there are descriptions of over 100 miles of prisoner transport to find a place of refuge. There are also more places in the country than areas where the quality and conditions of prisons are very poor, both for prisoners and for employees, and the capacity is too low. I myself have visited the prison in the lake, and only that visit shows me that we have great needs here in the country. Therefore, there is a need for a thorough review of the criminal enforcement capacity, both in order to get an overview of the current situation and to assess the needs for future capacity and unit structure in criminal care. Adequate settlement capacity is crucial for good criminal enforcement. That there is a lack of prison places in Norway, we have received several reports about the years that have gone with the red-green regime as well. The fact that they did not prioritize construction during their time of government has them answer for themselves, but now to try a shortcut and bypass the capacity plan to be addressed by the Stortinge in connection with the Landfill Message for the autumn is to jump over an important knowledge acquisition. Why did the Red-Greens vote against the proposal of the Right and the Progress Party last year to deal with the capacity plan drawn up by the Central Administration of Crime? Now the government will make sure that there will be a big message for the autumn, just to give the Storting the opportunity to make the necessary priorities, so that one can start building more prison capacity in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1612	There seems to be a broad understanding among all the parties in the Storting that prison capacity in our country needs to be increased in order to meet the needs that exist today and the projections that you are looking forward to. It also appears to be a broad perception that many of our prisons are very old and out of date in terms of time and building standards, and that they should therefore be rebuilt or replaced by new ones. The present proposal for a representative confirms this. The proposal itself is positive, focusing on a very important issue. The proposers behind the proposal have proposed decisions on three points: one in paragraph 1 calls on the Government to launch the East and Western draft committees; and in paragraph 2, the Government requests that a comprehensive plan for increasing prison capacity be presented to the Storting as soon as possible in order to meet the needs for adequate capacity, necessary rehabilitation during resettlement and the care of women's employees. Letter from the Minister of Justice to the Judicial Committee dated 1 April of this year states that he intends to present a report on the development plan for, inter alia: the capacity of criminal justice. The Minister of Justice points out that prisons are needed in several places in the country, and that, therefore, resources need to be allocated to measures that provide as much prison sites as possible as possible. State councils report that they will address this in detail in the said forecast for the autumn. The present proposal for a representative contains an item on the agenda. 3, if possible, to start work on building new prisons on Agder as soon as possible. I find it rather unfair for the proposers to withdraw one special prison at this time and ask for the start of the construction of this. I would like to show that one of the committee members has also pointed to the need to build a new prison in Ålesund. Even so, I can speak hot and long for the construction of new prison in Haugesund, where prison this year rounds 100 years and is very unsatisfactory in terms of both building standards and capacity, which is also confirmed by the criminal services. I think the committee has put forward a wise recommendation, and with this recommendation, I expect that we will get a good and thorough treatment of how best to use resources on measures that provide as many prison sites as possible when the Minister of Justice's letter of downturn is available for the autumn. I shall therefore vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1625	I take the word after the Workers' Party's attack on the undersigned and on the Christian People's Party, because I think it's a little special. There is no need to doubt what the Christian People's Party believes in the matter, both I said and it says in the setting. At the same time, the attack could as much have been directed towards the Centre Party, Left or SV, because the Workers' Party is alone about the proposal. As I see it, the proposal seems to be as much as a protest proposal, because we know that there will be a big message in a few months. Therefore, when we know that there will be complete knowledge of the country's needs and better decision-making bases, and when we know that it has not been a tradition that the Stortinget has made major investment decisions in relation to Document No. Eight proposals, I think one should be able to wait the few months, even though I share the same impatience. And when one then hears the Minister of Justice refer to the statistics on the number of adopted closed prison places from the red-green government, that it is zero, too, like the rest here, I think that it puts the matter in a funny light – that one then promotes a Document No. 8-proposals and are so high and dark towards the rest, that want to see it in a whole, that we finally get to do for the first time through the big message that's been notified. And then it's not about any more investigations. It's about seeing a whole. Because it's been a KS1 report as well, and it pointed to a concept selection of one or two prisons, so it's not necessarily the investigation that's needed, but to see it in a whole, and that's what we're going to do for the autumn. I have so much faith in the arguments, at least those I highlight – that is why I do – that it will also be measured against what we have to look at, namely: Where are prisons built to reduce the pay queue? –which is the most important thing, after all. So I just want to say that when we're going to have such a debate, it's, as we've heard, many other places where there's a desire and a need to build prisons. That's why it's important to me that we also look at the way it's built – a point that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are all about in the comments. For the ten-year process, or whatever it was, around Halden prison, we don't want a copy of it. We want faster and better construction of the prison. Looking at OPS will also make it possible to take more decisions and implement it more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1634	This debate I think we can sum up in some kind of mystery, and the mystery is something that follows: how can a delay in the construction of prison by proposing the construction of prison? The answer to that puzzle is that it actually isn't possible. But in the alternative universe of Anundsen, Werps and Leirstein, an action is not an action; it is a plan that is an action. The Minister of Justice thus shows that he has good review power, but not so good enforcement power. Anundsen and Leirstein also ask: Where are the money for Agder prison? Once again, they have to stay in an alternative universe, because once again, when you're going to build a prison, you have to first decide that you want to build the prison, and then you have to adopt the concept of prison, and then you have to have a quality concept, and then you can have a set of money. We haven't come there yet, and thanks to the Right and the Progress Party, we're not going to get there in a while. And then it will be with respect to report that one on the one hand will have a holistic plan, one will have a big message, but one does not respect the fact that a need for quality assurance and a quality procedure is needed in order to implement construction. During the debate, there has been evidence of settlement transfer agreements with other countries, and this is important for settlement capacity in Norway. I totally agree with that. I am pleased that this government has benefited from the work of the previous government in this field. Contact with Sweden and prison places that have also been highlighted. Until now it has proved to be a blow in the air, but I am very curious and interested in what result it might have to give in the long term. I'm also surprised, but I think it's interesting that Anundsen doubted the integrity of his own department by saying that they haven't operated on correct numbers before or that numbers have been highly misleading. It's a curiousness of a kind that I probably haven't experienced before. So I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party are proud of their 88 seats in 2014, and that must be quite right. But if one takes 750 places in eight years and divides it over the eight years, one also sees that there are more places in the year than 88. In conclusion, I have another mystery: how can a grant to a closed prison place and yet not build a single closed prison place – because this is a claim that has been raised here. The answer to that puzzle is that it actually isn't possible. The previous government let money go to closed prisons. It was the Bondevik government that decided to build Halden prison, but it was the previous government that made sure it was built. In that context, it was precisely the Progress Party that trained it, postponed it, and got the construction of that prison to take an unnecessary long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1649	We're all elected from a state, and we're all chosen to take care of some stately interests. However, in certain cases, national considerations are so important that they should not be trodden by local interests and considerations. The situation in Norwegian prisons today is that very many of them were built in the 1860s. They have limited expansion possibilities, and they have a very large maintenance run. The reconciliation queue is long – too long. When the pay queue gets long, it weakens the general preventive effect of the punishment, and it increases the risk of recurrent crime, and after all the solstice, prison will continue to be the most used criminal reaction in the years that may come. It's a mystery, to use the concept of the previous representative, that now you have to build a prison in an area of the country where only 12 pst. of the nesting queue is. 88 pst. of the other boning line is located in other parts of the country. There is a great need for prisons in the East, in Northern Norway and in the West. It has not been said that a prison in Agder is not in place, but it is too early at this time to jump on such a solution. Therefore, it is so surprising and superficial from the Workers' Party, who have always sworn that the country will be built on robust plans at the bottom, can do something so impulsive as to support this proposal, without considering in a wider context what benefits the nation overall within its prison capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1658	I found the appointment of committee leader Tajik very demanding. It becomes demanding when one claims that opponents of opinion are so far on earth that one is in an ‘alternative universe’. The challenge with these types of terms is that it's not always as sure which one of us is in the right or the wrong universe. After that article, I put a little bit of the impression that at least we agree that we are in different universes. But who's in the right universe, I don't think we'll agree. It is important for this government to build prisons in the most efficient way possible, and it is important that we get the most possible prison places per penny. Then making it a mystery is far from my point of view. I'm more concerned that we're actually going to do a real job. I think it's special that after eight months of opposition you're so forward-looking and aggressive about what's called implementation, after eight years in such a backward position. What made me take the floor was that I think the representative Tajik has misunderstood me quite dramatically when she says that I have claimed that the department has used the wrong numbers before. That's not what I said at all. I said that I had asked the department to do a review of what has been done in the eight years. So it's not 750, it's 896. It's down 400 spaces, a net growth of 500. It's 250 that was adopted by the Bondevik government, which is the Halden prison, and there are 250 electronic control points. That's at least what I've been told in this universe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1667	Yeah, then I can just try to pick up the last universe thread. It must be true that our government granted money to the 250 places that were closed prisons during that period. First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done to present this matter. Although we can discuss quite strongly here, there has been a good process in the committee as well. But what I note after this debate is that I have not heard a word from the position parties about concrete action. I've heard a lot of words about plans, I've heard a lot of economic concerns – a lot of economic concerns. I understood Verp there that it might not be right to spend as much money building a new prison as it actually costs. That's the impression I'm left with in the debate. It's made a sense that there's a contradiction between being for plan and being for prison. And when we're too prison, we can't be too level. It'll make no sense. We're for a plan. We even have that in our proposal 2. If you've read it, it says, "We want a whole plan." We see that there is a great need for prison sites all around Norway. That's why we're going to get moving fast. In fact, prison sites are not local; prison sites are national. So no matter where the prison sites are built, there will be ring-fences around Norway that will improve the conditions for both the employees, the prisoners and – not least – the victims, who, when there is no room in these prisons for those who should have been there, risk meeting them because we have too few places. What I experience is the difference between the opposition and the position in this case, is the time factor. We in opposition are impatient, we want things in place quickly. I have not heard anyone who has said that there is no need for the 300 places – I have not heard someone who has said that. But they say we're going to wait for a plan. We're saying we're going to have a plan, but we're saying there's so much need that we can do it right away anyway. Finally, I must say that I am sorry if I have trod Christian People's Party on my toes. I don't like doing that at all. Otherwise, Kjell Ingolf Ropestad is probably good for dancing. I just tried to see that you had turned around in the matter, and that there have been quite great promises from the parties that are now in government, locally in the election campaign. Then it was neither about scoring to economics nor plan, then it was actually building prison now that was the election campaign slogan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1682	The President will draw attention to the fact that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1685	I am not going to lengthen the debate unnecessarily, but it was addressed a perception of my post as being concerned about the use of money by prisons. Well, I thought it was obvious that for the Right, it is important to give priority to a new prison. It is possible that the previous representative then linked my quote from Grete Faremo to me – and I repeat what Grete Faremo said: ‘Any proposals for the creation of new posts, with proposed appropriations, will be submitted to the Stortinget in an ordinary manner.’;» If it is interpreted as being that the previous Minister of Justice was afraid of the appropriations, and that they were then linked to me, I will not elaborate any more, but I also note that in previous speeches the representative underlined in many ways what is the main issue in this matter, namely that the Workers' Party will build its proposal first and plan afterwards. I honestly believed that there was enough experience from large, both public and private, construction projects that show that it is a bad way to build new buildings and capacities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1695	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1698	I won't take it out. I'll just say that it wasn't the quote to Grete Faremo that I hung myself up in. The representative Werp mentioned sums in a way that made me realize that there was skepticism to spend so much money on the prison system. So, Werp had a conclusion that... now I just forgot what I was going to say, so I'm going to end up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1706	The representative has half a minute left, if it helps.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1709	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1714	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1728	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1737	For the first time in Stortinget, we are going to discuss a proposal to take the first step towards shutting down the Norwegian oil and gas industry. Today, early on, the representative Hansson called this historic day at Political Quarter. He is quite right in that – without me believing that this is necessarily a day we need to mark ahead. Today is also the World Environment Day. So I think it is both appropriate and good that we should discuss the climate and the environment here in Stortingen today, but at the same time I must say that I think it is sad that the debate should take place on the basis of this very proposal. Norway is a major supplier of energy to a world with an increasing energy demand. We have a proud industrial history of energy production – both renewable and fossil. We are a country with ambitious and offensive climate targets. I think it is sad that the premise for this proposal is to see Norwegian energy production as a problem, instead of part of the solution for achieving the global climate goal. Norway is the world leader in climate-efficient oil and gas production. An offensive research effort, together with the world's most stringent environmental requirements, has provided for this. Nowhere else in the world does the oil and glass industry have such an incentive to make production as environmentally friendly as possible. Every day, Norwegian industry works on this. This policy has resulted in significantly lower CO2 emissions, less use of chemicals in production and significant reductions in marine emissions. I'm proud of that. But I share the concern of the representative Rasmus Hansson for global climate change. The world needs to become more energy efficient, we need to turn energy use against renewables, and we need strong international instruments to do so. At the same time, it is a fact that fossil energy will remain in the world's energy mix in the future. So the question is not whether we're going to have fossil energy, but what kind of fossil energy it's going to be. I believe that climate-efficient Norwegian oil and gas should play a role here. The main reason why a large country like the United States is now seeing a decline in its emissions for the first time is that they have shifted energy use from coal to gas. Norway delivered 58 p.m. of the United Kingdom’s gas imports. We are the second largest supplier of gas to Europe. Substitution of coal-fired power stations with high-efficiency gas power stations is an important part of the climate solution in the short term. This is reflected in the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Norwegian gas can play an important role in the conversion of the European electricity market. So Norwegian gas is part of the solution to our climate challenges, not a problem. The 23rd concession round is important to maintain production on a Norwegian base. In the last 10–15 years, production has fallen steadily, more than half since 2000. Despite this, someone is trying to create a picture that we have never had such a pace of extraction. It's just wrong. The 23rd concession round is about giving companies access to new attractive areas, areas that we know are likely to contain significant amounts of gas. Not least, I and the government are concerned that activity at sea should give activity on land. Southern parts of Norway have benefited for many years from the value creation and job creation resulting from the offshore industry. With the 23rd concession round, we're going to make it easier for the northern parts of our country to participate in this industrial venture. The Norwegian oil and gas industry is Norway's largest industry. It accounts for one third of the state's income, provides work for about 250,000 people and is a significant technology driver in the field of energy. That is precisely why I believe that the Greens' proposal is a bad one. The Norwegian oil and gas industry shall be part of the solution to the world’s energy challenges. This is not something the government has invented, it is something that the United Nations Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency also believe. Then we cannot take the first step towards putting it down, as this proposal takes the floor. The Green Party's policy does not make Norway cleaner, but undoubtedly makes Norway poorer and less able to have an offensive climate policy. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on this in the Stortinget and in the Committee. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1774	Through our 40-year oil and gas history, we can refer to an industry that now employs 250,000 people indirectly and accounts for 29 pst. of the income of the country. We have managed the resources for the best for the community. Norwegian oil and gas policies have been characterised by predictability, profitability and constant availability in new areas, but at a pace that will allow resources to last for decades. A steady pace of proper activity is important for the supplier industry. It can be said, in a slightly simplified way, that neither too high a pace nor too low a pace is good for Norwegian jobs. Norway is and has always been a stable and predictable supplier of oil and gas. This is a competitive advantage today. Gas can combine the European energy supply-safe targets and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Replacing coal with gas in electricity production in Europe will only be difficult to meet EU CO2 targets. Gas has to replace coal, then we have a chance to achieve the targets. Now the oil and gas activities are moving northwards, so that the part of the country that I come from also gets to share in the oil adventure. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we facilitate access to new areas by the oil industry, while continuing to impose the most stringent environmental requirements on the world. Although industry is gradually moving northwards, there is also a need to invest in increased extraction from already existing fields. The oil and gas activities on the Norwegian base are a carrier in the Norwegian economy. The activities have had ring-effects in the form of jobs throughout the country. It has contributed to economic development, technological development and societal development that has benefited the whole country. The background to the proposal we are examining is a desire to reduce Norwegian oil and gas production. Chances would be that we are dealing with the proposal of the Green Party on the World Environment Day. Fossil energy sources account for about 80 pst. of the world’s energy supply and is the main cause of greenhouse gas emissions and anthropogenic global warming. Oil alone represents one third of the world's energy consumption. I agree with the Green and Rasmus Hansson Environmental Party that major changes in energy use are necessary if harmful climate change is to be avoided. But even in the IEA two-degree scenario, fossil fuels cover two thirds of energy consumption in 2035. Oil and gas are an essential part of the global energy mix in the foreseeable future. One of the main measures that could lead to lower CO2 emissions is increased renewable energy production. Energy efficiency measures need to be implemented, we need to replace coal with gas, and we need to develop methods for the capture and storage of CO2. The overall objective of the size, most recently addressed in the petroleum notification, is that Norwegian petroleum policy should be characterised by long-termity and predictability of continued value creation on Norwegian base. At the same time, it is important to focus continuously on the environment and safety in order to ensure good and sustainable resource management. Announcing the allocation of new blocks in the 23rd concession round is not considered to be predictable policy and in line with Stortinget’s policy objectives. The Labour Party will therefore vote against the proposals of the Green and SV Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1802	One takes note of the proposal for a representative to cancel the 23rd round of concessions – this should be done in the interests of the environment and the climate. Petroleum management is taking place today within the most stringent framework in the world, in the area for which we are responsible, both in terms of health, the environment and security. There is good and safe management of our petroleum resources over time that has made Norway a leading oil and gas producer. As of date, oil production is declining and gas production is increasing. The gas is clearly part of the road to the low-emission society. Therefore, cancelling the entire concession round is a totally incorrect instrument. Rather, one more should be opened to reduce the use of coal. We also see that the edge of the ice is the theme in the setting. I have to say, it's a little strange to record that a point of argument for an edge of ice that's moving far down the Barents Sea, while one in another context is about an edge of ice that's about to disappear completely. - But leave it alone. Luckily, it is a large and far-reaching plurality for a sensible approach even in the future to a petroleum sector that has made this country one of the richest in the world, and with great resources on the book to secure the welfare society on which most of us want to build. The 250 000 jobs employed by this sector should also know that the future is safe. The world needs more energy, and Norway should be one of the world's major energy suppliers for decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1813	The oil and gas activities on the Norwegian base are one of the carriers of the Norwegian economy. The activities have had ring-effects in the form of jobs throughout the country. It has contributed to economic development, technological development and societal development that has benefited the whole country. The technology found in the petroleum industry will be important in a necessary shift from fossil to renewable energy in the coming years. We want a targeted effort to extract oil from existing fields on Norwegian base to ensure a good and responsible management of the resources already found. We also want a further commitment to the exploration and extraction of new fields, especially in the north, with the exception of particularly vulnerable and valuable areas where the risk of oil extraction is too high. We therefore do not support the proposal we are considering today on a general stop in the allocation of new blocks in the 23rd concession round on Norwegian base. However, the opening of the 23rd concession round of the blocks in the Barents Sea south-east is critical. The environmental risks and impacts of activity in this area can be very high, according to the environmental professional bodies. Acute emission environmental impact analyses show that the influence areas of the most northerly emission points can hit the ice edge in some seasons. Any activity in the northernmost parts of the area could lie within the ice part of the year. The opening of the Barents Sea south-east is based on a definition of the ‘skanter’ which is consistent with the definition in the management plan. While the management plan defined the ice edge as the maximum prevalence of the sea ice in the last ten years, it was adopted by the majority in the Inst. 495 S for 2012–2013 defined as ‘the ice edge observed at all times’. In the same position, the Christian People's Party called for the following framework for the opening of the Barents Sea south-east of petroleum activities: ‘In the south-east of the Barents Sea, the same limits for petroleum activities as those already opened in the south of the Barents Sea are applied. In the ice edge and polar front areas, no petroleum activity defined as the maximum ice prevalence based on the years 2001 to 2011 shall be started.» We also proposed that the following should be taken as the basis for the Barents Sea south-east in the 23rd concession round: «When the companies are asked to nominate the area is not included: – the area at the ice edge and the polar front in the northernmost parts of the area from 50 km from the maximum ice spread [[based on the years 2001-2011]] Our position today is the same. Like the Environment Directorate, we believe that a more thorough professional process is needed to define a limit to the ice edge that also covers more extreme years, as we did not have it very long ago, in 2003.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1840	Over 40 years, oil and gas industries have become one of our biggest industries – 22 pst. of GDP, 29 p.p. of the income of the Norwegian State and 250000 persons working in the industry. A large proportion of them do not work in the oil companies at all. In contrast, they work in the large mainland-based supplier industry. Over the past 30 years, the objectives of the petroleum policy have been widely agreed. At the same time, we see seaworthy changes. Over the past decade, the debate on climate and climate policy conditions, including for the oil and gas industry, has become very important. Norwegian socket has become a more mature base. Extraction has fallen in the last 15 years. But still there is also a very long-term horizon over the work done in the oil and gas industry. Long-term management should involve the harvesting of resources in a manner that does not impair the possibilities for future generations. A greater sustainability, as well as the climate framework that must be around oil and gas activities, is therefore an important debate, and it is a debate that the Storting should conduct on an ongoing basis. For the Central Party, it is also important that we conduct the ongoing debate on whether oil and gas resources contribute to activity and value creation across the country, because it has also been – and is – an important objective of oil and gas policy. The possibilities in the north are great, there's no doubt about it. A third element I also want to highlight as important in the policy of petroleum is clear political governance with strict but tidy demands for industry. In fact, in many respects it has also proved to be a competitive advantage for Norwegian oil industry operators, and if the operators were not initially just as keen after all the measures implemented by a political entity. From the centre, there is reason to stress that new search sites will need to be opened up and the Stortinge treatment of Melding. St. 28 for 2010–2011 we also said that. There was also a broad consensus here in the Chamber that opening up new areas is of great importance to the long-termity of the petroleum industry, and that also applies to the Barents Sea. It is worth mentioning that there has also been petroleum activity in the Barents Sea for nearly 35 years. At the same time, the oil and gas industries are constantly living in the middle of being a very important industry for Norway, both in the workplace and in the resource context, and of being an industry contributing to greenhouse gas emissions, which in the years to come has to face stronger demands both through Norwegian measures and through international measures to reduce emissions. So there is a demanding balance between tough requirements in terms of climate, and the ability to maintain Norwegian base and Norwegian oil and gas activities as an important industry in Norway. There's no doubt about it, and several of the speakers have said that if we're going to reach the two-degree goal, it's important to recognise that there are also differences on different types of fossil fuel, and that reduced coal consumption may be the most important thing we have to achieve at the earliest opportunity. In this context, it actually plays a role if a gas is also increasingly used, which has also been included in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – that one simply converts from coal to gas. At the same time, on the part of the Centre Party, I would like to stress that the transition one must have from fossil to renewable is also very important, and that it is necessary and important to make renewable energy sources more competitive in relation to fossil energy sources. The centre party recognises the oil and gas industry as an important industry for Norway, both in terms of jobs and in terms of economy. We believe that there should be a lively debate on the conditions for this industry. It must be found in increasingly tighter conditions in terms of climate policy and requirements, but the centre party is not prepared to participate in and support a proposal to stop the allocation of new blocks in the 23rd concession round, which in itself will be a first signal to wind up the oil and gas industry and a dramatic decision to take for the Norwegian collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1863	It is important for the Left to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective and at the same time to take place within strict health, environmental and safety frameworks. At the same time, it is important to take inwards what it means for Norwegian petroleum industry that we also need to reduce global emissions by 85-90 pst. towards 2050. What's difficult is to reconcile these two objectives. How are we to further develop such an important industry for Norway as the petroleum industry, without having to take unnecessary risks? We also need to ensure that we do not make misinvestments in this sector. What is important for the Left is that the fields that are still to be operated are the most profitable and that they have the least negative environmental impact. That is why we believe that the Greens' proposal is the wrong instrument. I would like to point out three areas that are important to us in terms of policy towards the petroleum industry. The first is that we are clear that we are not going to have petroleum activity in vulnerable areas. That's why it was important for us in the co-operation statement we have with the government, that Lofoten, Vestralen and Senja are not areas of activity, that Jan Mayen be kept outside, that the Moorfields be kept outside, and that in the third concession round there is a discussion about where you define that the ice is going. What is important is that this is based on a professional basis and that the vulnerable areas around the edge of the ice are kept free from activity. The second is that it is essential that the oil activity we have is as environmentally friendly as possible and that the emissions of the activity are reduced as much as possible. It is a matter of putting in place power from countries, where it is applicable, but also of looking at the CO2 tax. The left considers that the CO2 tax should be increased, precisely in order to make emissions visible and bring them down, and that the fields that are most profitable, those that have the least negative environmental impact, are those that operate and are being developed. The third is about the risk distribution between public and oil companies. The current Norwegian cap tax regime offers companies too low a risk in their investments against what may appear to be falling profitability and stricter climate frameworks. This includes both search drilling and petroleum production. I believe that if we look at the aid granted by the State – whether it is within the light fusion regime, depreciation rules in the petroleum sector, the amount of free money or tax reduction in the case of investments – the sum of these subsidies is so large that it is in many ways the State that takes the risk and not the companies. At a time when we know that too much of the fields found internationally, two-thirds to three-quarters will have to stay underground, we should look at and have a thorough discussion, including in Stortinget, to change the risk distribution between the state and the oil companies. This made sense 20 years ago, as you could have a lot of certainty that the resources you found would eventually be raised, to get the income from them, but when we're going to reach the two-degree goal, we have to look at this again. We therefore believe that it is necessary to have a thorough review of petroleum legislation to look at how to make it more environmentally friendly, but we are not going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1882	The most striking thing when you listen to the three largest parties in this country is the inability to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It is even more so when you listen to Tord Lien's statements that all the oil on the Norwegian base has to be pumped up, not a drop to be put down, because then you get the impression that the biggest ambition of Tord Lien is to take the rudder on the Titanic on the way to the climate disaster. But the inability to have two thoughts in your head at the same time is striking in the following way: It seems like the idea of Norwegian oil policy and the idea that it has something to do with Norwegian climate policy at all, and solving the climate problems, are unconnected in the largest parties' posts here in the hall. Just to make it clear: everyone in this room knows that fossil fuels are going to make up a large part of the energy consumption in the years to come, but it is a fact that the climate budget, as presented by the United Nations Climate Panel, is at 750 billion tonnes of CO2.I tend to show it the following way: If we, like here, take a glass of water and “fill it” with CO2 from the world’s fossil resources, and the reality is that the world’s fossil resources are five, at least five, glass so much – that we have five times as many fossil resources in the world as we have the opportunity to burn off – then everyone realizes that this has consequences for how fossil resources are being extracted, who are being extracted, and who are going to be allowed to extract them. That's why I say everyone understands that you're getting rich from extracting oil, coal and gas. Look at Norway. We have wealth from our oil, coal and gas extraction. Everyone knows that you get rich using oil, coal and gas, because creating energy also gives growth and development. Then everyone understands that if we only have space for one such glass – not five, not six, not seven, not eight, not nine, not all the world's oil, coal and gas resources – the discussion of who it is to be allowed to extract their resources becomes a distribution issue. Before we in Norway are willing to go into this and say, yes, we also recognize that there is oil and gas in the world that must remain lying, and yes, it may also have an influence on whether Norwegian oil and gas must remain lying; before we are willing to take that discussion, it is not possible to say that we are having a serious climate debate in Norway. We in SV do not say that we will shut down Norwegian oil companies in a short time. Looking at the figures presented by the Oil Directorate, which were also present in the media today, they show that Norwegian oil and gas production will rise in the years approaching 2023–2024, and then it will decrease, but it is only from 2023–2024 that any announced exploration concessions will now come into production. In other words, for the next eight years Norwegian oil production and Norwegian oil production are not dependent on the exploration activity. And everyone understands that starting to reduce world oil and gas production by looking for even more oil and gas, doesn't hang on to anything. That is why I am questioning those parties that will vote today on the proposal to reject the 23rd concession round, this proposal which has been commendably promoted by the Greens. SV acknowledges that climate problems also have consequences for Norwegian climate policy. That is why we support the proposal to say no to the 23rd concession round. We are promoting our own proposal to reduce a tempo sample that can determine, target and find out how Norwegian oil and gas policy needs to be designed to fit into the global climate target, and how much of the Norwegian oil must lie if we are to do our part of the job. The third thing we do is to make a proposal – which I must admit is that I am surprised that it is not supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, which have been very clear on this in the past, and in particular the Workers' Party, which wants to be an environmental party – that the blocks that the Environment Directorate and the Polar Institute have said should be removed from the concession round.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1903	The President interprets the representative to that effect that he has addressed the proposals to which he himself has referred? – The representative is nodding and has thus taken up the proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1906	Yes, it's a historic day! And that is because the Green Party's proposal is the first proposal that Norway should address the most important issue of Norwegian oil and gas production from a climate perspective, namely the volume. And why do we propose that in connection with the 23rd concession round? Well, because it's in the concession rounds that the Storting decides what controls the long-term volume and the long-term volume of Norwegian oil and gas production and thus the volume of greenhouse gas emissions that the total production will lead to, which is thus 95 pst. the climate impact of Norwegian oil and gas production. And then we do it to get the reasons for the combination of climate policy and oil and gas policy in the parties of the Storting, and it's been an interesting exercise to do it. Because what are we going to hear? Well, first of all, we hear the majority point out that the objective of petroleum policy is to reconcile it with climate policy, and the majority further points to strict environmental requirements for activities. Already here we are at some of the core of the problem, because what kind of environmental requirements are set on that business? Well, there are excellent environmental requirements on where to drill and how to drill, but there is no climate requirement at all for the allocation of the amount of future Norwegian oil and gas activities. No assessment is made of the volume and emission totality of e.g. the oil and gas activities we open to in the 23rd concession round will lead to. This is a type of consideration that needs to be taken into account, and it is directly incorrect when the majority claims that that type of consideration is taken into account in the oil and gas activities. And it's not just irresponsible in relation to the climate issue, but it's of course irresponsible in relation to the economy of Norwegian oil and gas business. Because if you do not understand the climate realities associated with the long-term business and if you are fooling yourself into calculations that give Norway an unimaginably advantageous position in relation to what other countries are expected to do with their oil and gas resources, then, as many have said, the future oil and gas business in Norway is becoming an increasingly massive investment in public resources. The Green Party is promoting this proposal as part of launching the debate on what we believe to be the only responsible, namely a managed closure of Norwegian oil and gas activities long before the resources are exhausted. Because we have to start shifting this society's focus, priorities and human resources and technology from investing primarily in keeping alive in an industry that we know we have to out of, to creating that society and the industry and the well-being that we have to live on in the future. Then we hear the majority argue with some very interesting assumptions, for example. the assumption that Norwegian oil and gas activities may continue unaffected, even within a two-degree scenario. But this is a prerequisite that other countries, that the rest of the world, should dramatically reduce their use of fossil resources. Is this really a serious policy? Is it really a serious basis to build Norway's largest and most important industry to believe that Norway will be able to continue for many decades with the very opposite policy of what we expect all other countries to do? Not only is the climate irresponsible, but there are growing numbers of people who point out that it is an economically poor calculation. This is the main picture. Then there are a number of individual elements in the assumptions about the climate friendliness of Norwegian oil and gas activities, and that is for example. the expectation that Norwegian gas will phase out coal in Europe and in the world, for which it is mildly syllable, and the claim that Norwegian oil and gas activities themselves are so much more climate friendly than other oil and gas activities, whereas the opposite will be the case to an increasing extent. I would like to welcome a further debate and, at least, I would like to thank you for the answers that our proposal has so far led to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1924	Petroleum activities are Norway’s most important industries. Over 40 years, the production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base has contributed to more than 10 000 billion. kr to Norway's gross domestic product, 250,000 people employed directly or indirectly in the two major industries, and it has given us an oil fund of 5 000 billion. kr. The values that the industry has created have had and are of great importance to the development of society in our country. In recent years, activities have played an important role in protecting Norway from the recessions we have seen in the rest of Europe. It is also important for the future of Norwegian society that we encourage this important industry to continue to be a major and important contributor. A prerequisite for this is the predictable and long-term management of our petroleum resources. Then we also need to look for – and also want to find – new resources. 23rd concessional rounds facilitate this and provide great opportunities and values for Norway, but not least for North Norway. The concession round is also important for the oil companies and the related supplier industry. The round gives industry access for the first time since 1994 in new areas on Norwegian pedestal. In other words, the 23rd round represents what is at the heart of the Northern Region policy for the government, namely growth and value creation in the north. We want from the government to give Nord-Norway new opportunities, and I am happy that the majority on the Stortinget joins that ambition. The analysis by the International Energy Agency shows that the world’s need for energy will be increasing – especially as a result of increasing numbers of people being lifted out of poverty and raising their standard of living. To meet this growing need for energy, the same analyses establish that oil and gas will play a central role in the foreseeable future. The same can be seen from the latest reports of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. In all the IEA scenarios, oil and gas represent a significant share of energy supply for many decades to come, and it will require considerable efforts from producer countries only to maintain the current level of production, convert from coal to gas, and to deliver cheap and fast cuts in global CO2 emissions. The International Energy Agency has therefore stated on a number of occasions that the world needs all the gas — but also oil — that can be produced from Norwegian soil. It is important, and correct, that on Norwegian soil, the industry is subject to both a CO2 tax and an obligation to participate in the EU allowance market. This gives a high price of CO2 emissions and has led to the Norwegian petroleum industry being among the most efficient in the world, and the industry working every day to keep emissions down. We have been doing this activity and this industry for more than 40 years, and we have developed a comprehensive and rigorous environmental regulation of the industry. That's good, of course. This has resulted in safe and responsible petroleum activities on Norwegian base. There are many of the parties here in the Chamber that have contributed to it, and I think we should be proud of what we've been given. I see the time is running out. I think it is good for North Norway, and for Norway, but also for the world, that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment fully supports the 23rd round as planned, with the framework already set by the Stortinge for this round in the previous period. This is the only reasonable conclusion to the proposal put forward by the representative Hansson. Then I noted that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås said that voting as the majority does is impossible to reconcile with having a serious climate policy. This must also mean that the representative Holmås believes that the red-green government did not have a serious climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1955	The Arctic sea can spread across the Barents Sea and all the way into the Finnish coast, as it did in 2003. The edge of the ice is a particularly rich biological area and therefore also very valuable and vulnerable. Therefore, the management plan clearly states that oil operations should not be started at the ice edge. As I mentioned in my post, the opening of the Barents Sea is based south-east on a definition of the ice edge that is protruding against the definition in the management plan. Then I hope that the Council of State in its reply will not only refer to the majority of the Storting, but will also respond to whether the precautionary principle should lead in such a vulnerable area, so that a thorough, professional process is initiated to define a limit to the ice edge that also covers more extreme years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1962	I was in my post saying that during the more than 40 years that this industry has been operating on a Norwegian base, we have developed a very strict environmental regime for activity on a Norwegian base. I think that has been right and important. It is also quite clear that the search activities that will take place in the blocks that will be assigned at 23rd round will be fully sound – if not, it will not be allowed to be undertaken. It ensures the system we've put in place over many decades. Havis varies from year to year, but also throughout the year. The frameworks set by the Storting take this into account. This must be the case with the petroleum industry and we believe that it will ensure that the environment is properly protected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1971	I would like to follow up on Mr Eide's question: during the round of the 23rd round of the concession, two heavy trade unions – the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Environment Directorate – have listed a large number of the blocks that the department, Tord Lien and the government are now publishing, and said that they should not be published. They should be deducted from the concession round, because a thorough professional review of the ice edge – partly done by the Polar Institute – should be carried out and these areas protected. My question to Tord Lien is then very simple: Does Tord Lien think that these heavy trades are wrong, or does he intend not to release the blocks mentioned by the Environment Directorate and the Polar Institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1978	I do not intend to discuss who is wrong, and who is right. I want to draw the representative's attention to the fact that I totally disagree with the fact that new, significant information has emerged in this process – on the contrary. The exact same objections that have been raised in this consultation round were also addressed in detail in this amazing big business message, which I brought with me here, which was presented by the red-green government, and which is called A Industry for the Future – about the petroleum business, where these challenges are addressed, and on which the Storting had access. The size addressed these in its treatment, but concluded, as I did, that with the restrictions in place, it would be appropriate to open these blocks for petroleum activity. There was an SV in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1983	The President has to ask the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to wait a little, because we have to look at the number of lines before he might get another line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1986	Given the aid schemes we have in Norway for oil exploration, where the State takes the main costs, does the Council of State see some dilemmas in terms of the state aid we grant for oil exploration, and the falling margins we see in oil production – especially in the light of Goliath, where it is expected that an oil price of $100 per barrel should be seen in order to produce, and in the light of the delays at Johan Castberg? Aren't you afraid that what you're really doing is you're backing up under an oil exploration to find fields that we'll never really be able to take up the oil from, and get the income from?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e1993	Let me just briefly remind you that I do not hear any calls from other industries in Norway to get the same tax ego as the oil and gas activity on Norwegian base. Norwegian petroleum activity is taxed in the order of 78 p.m., and as I said, I do not perceive any calls from others to get up to that level. However, I am pleased with the touching concern you have for the profitability of the oil and gas activity. That's also the Council of State's concern. I am dedicated to strengthening the profitability of the Norwegian base. When the representative of Elvesuen points to Johan Castberg, it has been shown not to go as quickly as you initially thought, but I am absolutely sure that the large resources at Castberg will be built up in a profitable way at some point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2002	One of the calculations used to justify Norway continuing its oil and gas activities on a large scale is the Rystad Energy report, where a very interesting graph of gas production development shows strong growth up to 2045, but then the same graph shows a fall in global gas use to a third – that is, the pure disaster compared to what the Green Party suggests. At the same time, when you look at the economy of Snow White, the exceedances of Goliath and the fact that there is a giant field called Shtokman, which has been lying there for many decades, without developing it, the question is: What do the Council of State think will be present, which will make Norwegian oil and gas production in the Barents Sea profitable in 2030, in 2030, and after that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2009	There were a lot of moments at once. I want – which I have tried to do sometimes in the last three, four, five months – to explain the overall policy on Norwegian soil. One of the key principles, which has been underpinned for almost 45 years, is that it is not the country that produces gas on a Norwegian base or that makes investment decisions, commercial decisions and technical decisions on a Norwegian base. That's what the companies do. I note that large international energy companies – in addition to the Norwegians – have been interested in the fields that are now being announced in the 23rd round. I think that is a clear indication that people who are more suitable than I am to make commercial decisions believe that it is possible here to run profitable energy production for decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2019	I think the representative Elvesuen had a rather qualified question, which he did not get a very good answer to. It was about whether the Council of State sees some dilemmas about the type of taxation that one has on the base today and what it can contribute to in terms of profitability assessments. Because even if it's 78 pst. tax, we all know that the state takes a large proportion of the costs associated with the investment of oil companies through the write-off possibilities. I would like to challenge the Council of State once more on just that with the relationship between taxation in Norway and profitability assessments in the fields. Overall, there have been some assessments related to the systems of other countries, such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom system, which, after what I understand, is still with the ring fence?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2031	The United Kingdom has just given its base some tax cuts. I have experienced it in such a way that there has been a broad political agreement on the overall framework for the taxing of the activity on Norwegian pedestal. I think that the broad consensus and the long-term approach to how to develop the tax policy for Norwegian pedestal has historically been one of the conditions that have made Norwegian pedestal attractive. With regard to the exceedances pointed out by the representative, I believe that this is important to address, in particular exceedances of development projects. It was a work that the representative Arnstad's party colleague started just before he left, and that resulted in a report from the Oil Directorate, which we of course intend to follow up. But in it there is probably no desire for any immediate tax tightening for the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2038	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2043	I can only say that I am surprised that Tord Lien believes that the hearing opinions of the Polar Institute – after the thorough, professional work that was done there, at the request of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, with a minister from his own government – did not bring anything new to the square. I am also surprised that he believes that the reports from the Environment Directorate did not bring anything new to the square. It's possible that we have a government that claims that it should be knowledge-based, but that in reality only gives the bluff of knowledge it doesn't like, which is the new tone of government. After the debate, I still have four questions that it is important for me to get an answer to: Does the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and Right share my view that parts of the world's oil and gas reserves must remain in place? The second question is: do the same parties agree that Norway must also leave some of its oil and gas reserves behind? The third question goes to Tina Bru. She repeated the general thesis in the case of Norwegian oil and gas, namely that it is very important to produce as much Norwegian gas as possible because the International Climate Panel has said that gas can replace coal. The real question is whether gas replaces coal. When the Committee on Energy and the Environment was on its way to Germany, we were told that the gas power plants were standing, while the coal-fired power stations were going. If the Right seriously believes that we should only produce the gas that can replace coal – because it is only the one that contributes to the positive effects on the climate, as the IPCC and the Climate Panel say – is Right then willing to demand that all future Norwegian gas produced replace coal? The last question is related to the edge of the ice. I think it is good that the Christian People's Party has previously raised the question of the ice edge. I see that the left has also had a strong commitment to the edge of the ice. My question is: those parties who do not support our proposal which are concerned with the controversial areas that the Environment Directorate and the Norwegian Polar Institute do not think we should allocate in this concession round, why do they not support the SV's proposal that these areas should be excluded from the further process?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2056	The 23rd Concession Round is a continuation of a policy that is broadly based on the Stortinget. We have discussed the need for energy and the global climate problems in this regard. We are facing population growth, wealth development and poverty reduction – which requires the use of energy. Using energy provides access to goods and services that lift people out of poverty. The problem is that today's energy consumption leads to global warming. The problem lies in the use of energy, the types of energy and how it is used. We believe that energy efficiency improvement, shifting from fossil to renewable energy, shifting from coal to gas and measures and technologies such as carbon capture and storage are the way to overcome the climate problem. How do we do that? It is about setting a price and getting restrictions on CO2 emissions, getting global and local – national and regional – measures and technology developments. The point is here – as otherwise – that the lead star that pays is the polluter must apply. International negotiations are slow, but we see that gas use in the United States leads to less emissions – because coal to gas goes from one country to another. We see a positive trend in China, with quota markets and other national and regional instruments to get CO2 priced. My point can also be an answer to Eidsvoll Holmås’ question: How much should be in the ground? I think that's the wrong starting point. There is a blindway in climate policy to start talking about the resources to be removed. The point is, we have to reduce the burning of fossil fuels. Then we have to ensure that renewable energy becomes competitive, that we get energy efficiency. What will ultimately be taken out is the energy that is most cost-effective to take out and that affects the climate and the environment at least. For this reason, it is a point in this debate that this is the policy we are now pursuing in Norway, among other things. land-to-field power and the prohibition of torching on platforms – reducing production greenhouse gas emissions, as well as a number of other mandatory laws, regulations and regulations to ensure optimal health, environment and oil extraction safety. That must be the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2075	I fully agree with the representative Per Rune Henriksen that we must put all the effort into reducing our own emissions. But we can't wait for an international price of carbon – I don't think we can expect it to come either. Because climate change is so serious, we must expect all other countries to start reducing their emissions. The goal of two degrees is so important that we have to expect this to be a broad responsibility. I noticed that the representative Rasmus Hansson was pleased to attend a debate on the environmental day. In the left, it's much more important that you get results, that we take over the changes that are also happening internationally. We have done so in several areas. An important discussion here today is the vulnerable areas in which we need to avoid petroleum activity. It is clear that within the ice edge it cannot be petroleum activity. We have a cooperation agreement with the government where this is quite clear. It is also clear that this must be clearly defined before any allocation under the 23rd concession round is adopted. But the most important discussion is this: What does it mean for Norway if the rest of the world also takes responsibility and reduces its greenhouse gas emissions? This is not about us choosing to leave two thirds on the ground – it will happen if the world takes responsibility and reduces its emissions. We have to decide the following: how are we going to align our petroleum policy to such a reality? This is an important industry. It's necessary for us to think in the long term, on behalf of the Norwegian economy. It is quite right when Tord Lien says that there has been a broad consensus on the petroleum policy in Norway for many years. But the question is whether things have changed. That made sense in the 1990s, when we knew that the state's investments in exploration were well paid for by means of a tax regime and income in retrospect. If it's right that the world reduces its consumption, we can no longer expect what we find now, we'll be able to raise profitability in 20–30–40 years. We should change the regime and the tax regime for oil and exploration. This is the important question we need to answer in the years to come, not only because of the environment, but also because of the Norwegian economy. If we don't, we're going to invest big in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2088	Norway stands for 3 pst. of the total worldwide production of oil and gas. The need for fossils will be there if we cut our production or not. I respect the views of representatives Eidsvoll Holmås and Hansson, but as they think I am wrong, I mean exactly the same about them. The SSB, for example, has reports showing that shutting down or producing oil and gas in Norway will have a minimal impact on world climate change emissions. In the worst case, this can lead to greater emissions because the gas and oil we do not deliver is replaced by coal or oil and gas with a greater carbon footprint. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås also asks who will be allowed to produce fossil energy in the future, and believes indirectly that it should not be us. It is legitimate whether SV believes that less resource-intensive countries and not Norway should be allowed to do so, but at the same time SV must say that they believe it is okay that this fossil energy is likely to be more polluting than the one we produce. Norway's contribution, with 3 pst. worldwide, likely to be covered by other countries with strong economies. I believe that looking at the Norwegian wind-up of the oil and gas industry as a kind of aid policy at best is very ambitious, and at worst poor climate policy. When you criticize us for not having two thoughts in your head at the same time, I will correct that criticism right back. The representatives supporting this proposal do not seem to take on board the growing energy needs of the world. They themselves do not choose to respond to this challenge, they do not address what both the IEA and the UN say about fossil sources in the energy mix. What is their answer to this? I wonder. Two thoughts in your head at the same time is exactly what we who do not support this proposal have. We need to balance climate considerations and business, and we need to balance climate considerations and the world's energy needs. We're trying to do that, not SV and the Green Party. So to the challenge I got from the representative Eidsvoll Holmås about gas. I remember when the committee was in Germany that there was the representative Eidsvoll Holmås busy talking hot about gas as a bridge builder of the renewable society, and as part of the solution to Europe's energy challenges. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås is right that it is difficult to get gas to compete with coal today, but I have faith in an international climate policy, and that it will come into place. I think it can help boost the competitiveness of gas. Norway must also be a driver of this. Now we have e.g. The U.S. took hold of this, and the most dirty coal power stations will now in the future have problems keeping it going. Two thoughts in our head at the same time are exactly what we have, and I believe that the representatives of the SV and the Green Party do not have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2099	Now I'm not going to keep count over how many thoughts I have in my head, but there's not enough. One of them is the answer to the representative Bru's rhetorical question about what to do with the world's energy supply. Well, the answer is pretty familiar: we're going to dramatically change it from being fossil-based to being based on renewable energy. We also know very well that we have very little time to do so, and we know very well that we are currently on the wrong track, which leads to a huge increase in global greenhouse gas emissions. Norway contributes to this both through its exports of petroleum resources and through a national policy that does not reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. That's the main answer. We have a large number of people who refuse to take a concrete stand on how much of our remaining oil and gas resources are going to be added to the atmosphere in terms of greenhouse gases. Even Ola Elvesuen from the left says we shouldn't choose to leave the oil. Well, that's exactly what the United Nations Climate Panel and the world's science are asking us to do. When the UN climate manager was at Svalbard and was asked by the media what Norway could do to contribute to the international climate battle a few weeks ago, she got sadly little pressure on it, but she replied two things: reduce the oil and gas business and cut off the coal industry at Svalbard. Now we are in a situation where the majority, while they will not affect the volume of the Norwegian oil and gas business, refer to the gas’s climate gain, which is no basis for reference in practice. They refer to an allowance market that we know is not working and that is not going to work in a very long time. They indicate that there is going to be an international carbon price, which there is not much to suggest that we are going to get in a long time, and they refer to a future international climate agreement, which will provide us with the regulations that Norway itself will not contribute to, and that is an agreement that is probably not coming very early. But what is common to these international measures is that if they come, they will hit hard on the future of Norwegian oil and gas activities. Meanwhile, the United States is setting concrete emission targets at sector level for its coal-fired power plants, and China is implementing dramatic cuts in its coal-fired power plant, cut on a huge scale. That is what Norway has to do with, and that is what Stortinget has to do with planning further Norwegian oil and gas activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2108	This is actually a bit of an impressive debate in a way. It is quite legitimate that one is opposed to going ahead with Norwegian oil and gas activities and saying no to the 23rd concession round, and it is easy to justify it as SV and the Green Party chooses to do so. But accusing someone of lacking the ability to have two thoughts in his head in this context, I think it's a little rough claim, especially as long as one through two posts actually proves that one self, i.e. the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, has only one thought in his head. That's kind of weird. It's actually the main dilemma we're facing, not just about the 23rd concession round, it's about an overall global picture that's quite demanding, and that the representative Bru really defined in a very good way. In the interests of the world's poor, the representatives of the SV and the Greens must also take up the need to meet demand for more energy. It is said that there should be a massive focus on renewables. Yeah, I totally agree, it's going to be massively invested in renewables, but we don't have the answer that makes it possible for a person to exchange all the energy that the increased demand refers to, with renewable energy today. Therefore, some of the leading knowledge environments in energy actually point to the need for an energy mix, which is demanding in a climate context. You don't have answers, and you have only one thought in your head, that's what's problematic, and that's what might make you -- unfortunately -- small parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2117	In this kind of debate, at least I think it is necessary to be able to think about solving major energy challenges, to solve demanding climate challenges, and to take into account the enormous value creation this industry has given us. The representative Eidsvoll Holmås challenged us on coal versus gas. It is true, as Eidsvoll Holmås points out, that today cheap coal is dumped into Europe while there is a lack of a functioning quota price in the EU. But as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås himself points out, the gas that comes up as a result of the 23rd round will come up in 2025. We know that the gas infrastructure on Norwegian soil ends up in the EU. If it is assumed that Europe has not managed to get any further in its climate work in 2025 than that it does not have a working quota price for greenhouse gas emissions in Europe, I believe it is unimaginablely passive. That's what you want, of course. It will help to phase out coal and replace it with renewable but also Norwegian gas. And then I want to point out what I myself have written in my wisdom in the letter to the Stortinget, that if the world's consumption of coal is reduced from today to half of the world's energy supply to a quarter, there will be room for almost as much oil of the energy mix as it is today in the context of the two-degree target. Then you should reduce oil production by 12 pst. to 88 pst. of the level of the day. Then I can say, it's going to be very difficult to maintain oil production at 88 pst. of the level of the day. Oil production in many of the major petroleum regions in the world is falling. We know that there are two types of resources that are much left of: one is gas and oil on the base in Africa, in South America and in Europe. The other resource there is a lot of, of which we're going to have the pleasure of discussing afterwards, is oil sand. In that perspective, we must also include this debate. There is also space within the two degree goal of a lot of oil also in a very long perspective. I hope it becomes Norwegian. I also hope that it will to a great extent be Northern Norwegian in the future. That's what the county deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2131	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2134	I thank you for the answers I have received from various representatives. I just want to be short to Tord Line since I only have 1 minute. He says that much of this comes from 2025 and beyond. Then we're assuming that it's completely different. But to the Council of States: it is that in those recordings of the EU's future quota system to set a quota ceiling of 40 pst. - So 40 pst. reduction in what lies there, for which this government of which Tord Lien is a representative, and which the Council of State Lien has helped support, does not lead to a price of allowances that is high enough to replace. This is what the Council of State must know! Statoil knows this. The oil companies know this, and the analysts know this. Then it's weird if Tord Lien sits here and tries to imagine that a change in the allowance price will lead to gas replacing coal – because he won't. I'm sorry. – That’s what I was told.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2141	I would like to say a little bit to the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ challenge about why the Christian People’s Party does not support proposal No. 2, from SV. As Eidsvoll Holmås knows, the Christian People's Party has a cooperation agreement with the government parties that, on the edge of the ice, which is one of the important, vulnerable areas, it shall not extract oil. The agreement also states that the precautionary principle should be used for all assessments. Therefore, I assume that the Council of State will listen to the reports that SV mentions in its proposal, and use them when the blocks are to be assigned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2146	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2149	It was the representative Rasmus Hansson who was shocked that I said we should not choose which fields would remain. That is quite right. I fully agree with Rasmus Hansson that we need to reduce global emissions as quickly as possible, but it is also that we will have oil and gas activities for many years to come, although it will be less and less important. Then there is nothing wrong with it, if it is the most environmentally friendly and profitable, that it is also located in Norway. So the Left is not just going to mark the point of view, but is going to pursue a policy to bring about a political change that we've made with the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, and we're going to have a discussion about the ice edge. This is the crucial issue, which Norway needs to address, particularly because the petroleum sector is so important, and it needs to undergo such major changes in the years to come, that we now need to look at the tax system and the device against the petroleum sector to ensure that we avoid major misinvestment. The discussion we want to address in the debates we are also going to have with the majority of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2158	I'll be brief. I just want to say that I am so happy that the largest parties in Norwegian policy stand together in the face of the challenges of the future both within the climate and in the context of continued economic growth and value creation in Norway. I have to say that I think the whole debate on climate in Norway is on the wrong track when we are still discussing from a no or yes to oil and gas production in Norway. It's a derailment. There is so little constructive, and it destroys the possibility of having a proper debate on how Norway should contribute to the reduction of total global emissions. In fact, that is what climate policy is all about. It is not a yes or no to Norwegian oil and gas production.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2181	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose to be given an opportunity to give five lines of response to statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2190	This is a new, important debate, a new, important topic – in the extension of the previous discussion we had. This time it is on the basis of a proposal from the representative of Rasmus Hansson to withdraw Statoil from tar sands in Canada. In the proposal, the proposer points out that Statoil bought into the tar sands production in Canada in 2007. It is also pointed out that tar sand extraction is the most climate-damaging way of extracting oil. Every year since 2009, the Statoil General Assembly has considered proposals from shareholders who have proposed that Statoil withdraw from the tar sand activity in Canada. The proposer also proposes that the State and the government should use their influence in the governing bodies of Statoil and ensure that the company withdraws from all tar sand activity in Canada. There are several proposals, including: a minority proposal from the Labour Party and the Centre Party. I also assume that they will explain their proposal and that the majority will also explain their position. On the left, we will support the minority proposal, which supports the proposer, that the government be asked to ensure that Statoil withdraws from the tar sand activity in Canada. This is a question that has been raised in Stortinget several times earlier — also in the previous period. Then this was up after a proposal from the left. The basis is that the IEA assumes or assumes that we reach a peak in oil demand during the 2020s. There's a great risk that we'll now let Statoil invest in something that won't pay off when we get back, as the discussion was before, we have to assume that we're going to succeed with the international climate goal that we're going to achieve the two-degree goal. To reach the two-degree target, tar sand extraction is the most polluting way we can extract petroleum, and it has a lot of costs by collecting it that way. I believe it is important that the Stortinget discusses how state ownership in different companies can be established, so that the company in question will be both profitable and part of the climate solution. That's what's going on here, because there's a cost question, what investments does Statoil go into, and what risk do we, as owners, allow them to take, given that we're going to reach the two-degree goal, and then that's the emissions themselves. On the left, we believe that today's ownership message provides room for using ownership. Clearly, ownership of oil sand is a strategic choice for a state-owned company that is natural for the owner to have an interest in and an opinion about. It is of great importance to Statoil. The initiative is very visible and contributes to changing the company's reputation as a responsible oil company with high environmental standards. On the left, we will support the proposal that the government should ensure that Statoil withdraws from its oil sands activity in Canada, both for environmental reasons – it involves large emissions with this type of activity – and also for economic reasons, as we as owners of such an important company must assume that our owned companies must make their investments on the basis of the world's achievement of the same objectives as the Norwegian government has, namely to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions so much by 2050 that we reach the two-degree target. With that, I'll take up the suggestions that the Left is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2213	The representative Ola Elvestuen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2216	Tar sand is one of the most demanding resources to extract from a climate perspective. Like shale oil and many heavy oil deposits, much energy is required for extraction, resulting in high greenhouse gas emissions. Global pricing of CO2 emissions that actually contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions will help to phase out high-carbon resources first, as these resources become the least competitive. Statoil aims to reduce the CO2 intensity of the tar sand extraction by 45 pst. by 2025 and the water consumption by 40 pst. by 2020. Statoil's entry into the tar sands extraction in Canada was a commercial decision taken by the company's board of directors, which is the body responsible for such decisions. I assume that the company is continuously assessing the business and climate challenges of all aspects of this type of project, including within a scenario in which we are able to keep global warming within the two-degree target. I am pleased that there is an overall committee which stresses that the State as a majority shareholder cannot intervene in matters falling within the remit of the Board of Directors and that there is a broad consensus in the Committee that the State should refrain from the day-to-day operation of State companies. It is important that Statoil is a technology driver in its field and strives to be climate-oriented. In the 2010 ownership Communication, it was emphasised from the previous government that it was an objective that companies in which the State is owned should lead its sector of low emissions and the development of climate-reduction technologies. This must be followed up by the management of the companies and by the management of the companies. The Labour Party believes that the issue addressed by the proposal must be addressed in the ownership message. Consideration should be given to setting a target of reducing the CO2 intensity of projects run by state companies. We assume that the government states that this will actually be possible to discuss in the ownership notice. The aim of the Workers' Party is that the State which owns it should contribute to the requirement that public owned and leased companies be the industry leader in terms of sustainability and the environment. The global oil industry has major climate challenges. From the Labour Party we believe it is important that Statoil takes a leading position in order to develop the industry in a more climate-friendly direction, among other things. through research and technological development. We see it as important that the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which owns, demands that Statoil be industry leader in climate and environment, and that emission reductions in tar sand extraction in particular be monitored. I address the proposal on which the Labour Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2249	The representative Anna Ljunggren has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2252	I have stated in this debate, before it came to the main hall, that both as a politician and as a private person, I do not have much to do with tar sands. Oil sand is a non-conventional oil which has a much greater environmental impact than other oil extraction. It captures large natural areas and leads to emissions worse than the extraction we, for example. operates on Norwegian pedestal. At the same time, I have constantly clarified that despite this, I believe that it is not the role of the Storting to instruct Statoil to withdraw from such activities. In the majority of the Committee's comments, we point out that there is a broad consensus that the state should refrain from the day-to-day operation of State companies. Nevertheless, some of the parties choose to interfere in the day-to-day operations precisely in this matter. I believe that this is both irresponsible and poor ownership by the state. The competence and responsibility for making business decisions in companies, including those in which the State owns, lies with the boards of the companies – not with me or other representatives of the Stortinget. This is important in order to ensure a predictable and responsible ownership policy on the part of the state – a ownership policy that, in the long term, ensures and further develops the high values of our state-owned company. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of abrupt changes in the framework conditions and predictability of Norway’s main industries. The issues addressed by this proposal for a representative fall within the scope of the ownership message. It is in the announcement of ownership that we in Stortinget place the framework for our commitment to the different companies, and there are also questions here about what kind of values and principles we should base, should be discussed. And you do that, to the highest degree. Norwegian ownership policy requires that the companies in which we own or share are to lead the industry in sustainability and the environment. Because Statoil is partly owned by the State, it must also relate to the country's ownership policy, namely that companies in which the State owns are to lead its sector of low-carbon and climate-reducing technology development. As I see it, in the question of Statoil's involvement in tar sands, I think it's positive that the state is a partner in the company, because it's enough to make Statoil more ambitious on the environmental issue. As I said, I'm not even a big fan of tar sand. I believe from an environmental point of view that it is regrettable that Statoil wants to spend 12 billion. tap that project. It is a fact that about 3 liters of water are needed to produce 1 litre of crude oil from oil sand, there is a significant amount of energy that goes into production, and unfortunately, production leaves a lot of open pits. That makes me personally think oil sand is a little forward-looking. At the same time, I have no problem with Statoil, as a sovereign listed company responsible for own earnings, making the considerations they think are necessary to ensure the highest possible return on invested capital within the framework of the environmental requirements set by the Stortinget through the ownership notification. These considerations also help to form the basis for future Norwegian welfare. The world will need more energy in the future. World Energy Outlook 2013 calculates that fossil sources will total 64 pst. of the cumulative energy consumption in 2035. Non-conventional oil, like tar sand, will be part of this if you like it or not. I do not think that we are doing any good in saying that the company operating under the strictest environmental requirements – Statoil – will leave this production to someone else. The right will therefore not support any of the proposals in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2278	In a debate like this, which also falls on the world's environmental day, I want to start by lifting my eyes a little. For what are we really talking about in this case? Well, it's about one of the biggest crises we're facing, the climate crisis. It's not a Norwegian crisis, it's an international crisis. That means that the decisions we make here have consequences in the rest of the world. This is about our responsibility for future generations. We are no longer talking about an uncertain future for grandchildren. Climate change is not happening in the distant future – it is happening now. That's why it's for our children, and we're the ones who have to reverse the evolution. That is why we want this to be done as much as possible on the climate front and that it should be carried out as quickly as possible. We know that if it continues as today, and if we don't manage to cut climate emissions, the next generations won't have the same possibilities that we have. The report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that the temperature has already increased by nearly 1 degree and is expected to increase by 4 degrees this century. The consequences if this occurs are reduced food safety, more extreme weather and threatened ecosystems. The risk can only be reduced if we manage to reduce emissions. We are responsible for doing something about these emissions, and that is what this matter is all about. For what is the background of oil sand a challenge? Well, it's precisely that oil sand pollutes. The emissions from oil sand extraction are at least ten times worse than from the oil we take out in Norway. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has repeatedly proposed to ask for the previous and present government, through their influence in Statoil's governing body, to ensure that the company withdraws from oil sand operations in Canada. Oil extraction is the most climate-intensive way of extracting oil. Oil extraction also leads to large wounds in nature and local contamination of, inter alia, water. Statoil's commitment to what can be described as one of the most dirty forms of oil extraction is at the expense of the world's climate and not least of the laborious environmental reputation of the Norwegian oil industry. We believe that the State as a majority shareholder should use its influence in Statoil's governing body to ensure that the company withdraws from oil sand operations in Canada. We note that the oil and energy ministers from both this and the previous government choose to hide behind formalisations in order not to address a very important environmental issue, which is very devastating for Statoil's reputation. I interpret the Council of State so that, as the State representative and general assembly in Statoil, he cannot or will not manage this company. We disagree with this. We believe that the matter is so serious that in this case the State must commit itself. Statoil’s involvement in oil sand extraction should and must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2293	The representative proposal to extract Statoil from tar sands in Canada is not new. We've had this debate before, and he's repeating himself now. However, when it comes to the competence and authority to make investment decisions in the state-owned companies, today – and this must be the case – of the board and the board of directors of the companies. The issue raised by this proposal is dealt with by the state in the ownership message, which has also been discussed by many. Statoil has for several years indicated that the company will progress progressively in the development of the oil sand project in Canada. Both commercial and environmental considerations are emphasised in the company's assessments. We see that Statoil invests considerable resources in research and development of new technologies in order to develop the project in the most resilient way possible. Statoil's objective to reduce carbon emissions from oil sand extraction by more than 40 pst. Before 2025, therefore, industrial leadership. This shows that Statoil is just a transitory company that shows the way in which it is required to reduce the footprint of this type of extraction. We know that tar extraction will continue for a long time, as the resources are so large that they will be removed. Then it is important for a company that is willing to be a leader in environmentally good production. There are Statoil tenants per today and have ambitious goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2304	We face years of demanding decisions regarding the energy mix of the world. There will be strong demands for energy efficiency improvement, massive expansion of new renewable energy and carbon capture, and we will face demands for phase-out and reduction of coal consumption. Neither does oil sand extraction come out very fortunately in such an image. There is no good form of oil extraction, including: is that it requires so much energy for the extraction of this oil that the greenhouse gas emissions and the greenhouse gas accounts become very unfortunate. Next to coal there is no doubt that oil sands have the greatest climate emissions, and there will be no room for this type of extraction in the long term. We in the Central Party therefore think that it is unfortunate that Statoil is inside the kind of oil sand extraction they are in Canada, sail if we have noticed that Statoil has already sold itself down to part of what they bought, and that they also aim to reduce the CO2 intensity of the tar sanding by 45 pst. during the next decade. However, the Central Party cannot support the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the SV and the Green Party. The reason for this is that the Storting cannot exercise ownership in this way. It must be a long time since the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have been in government so that they can now understand how it is happening – that they can participate in such a kind of proposal. You can't use Document 8 on a case-by-case basis in Stortinget to run and manage state companies. That's what we have a ownership message for in Stortinget. That is why we deal with a statement of ownership, and that is why we adhere to the principles of ownership and governance for both wholly-owned and leased state companies, for state companies that are not listed on the stock exchange, and for state companies that are listed on the stock exchange. We have to stick to some of those principles. Then we cannot, through individual proposals in Stortinget on a case-by-case basis, operate and try to manage business decisions in the companies. But it has not been said that the Storting should not at any time drop strong demands, and that we should take a more fundamental debate if not the state that owns more actively should enter the general meetings and have views on the environment. It could be. In that case, it should not only apply to Statoil, it should also apply to other State companies. We should have a good opportunity to discuss that in connection with a ownership announcement. That is why I take it for granted that when the Christian People's Party and the Left stand here today and have so strong words about what is Statoil's commitment to Canada, and the need for them to withdraw from it, they will also support the Workers' Party and the proposal of the Centre in a subsidiary way, so that we can have the broad and fundamental debate on what role the State should have as owner of the various general meetings of the various companies in relation to the environment and greenhouse gas emissions. That's the neat way to deal with it, and that's the way we've previously agreed in Stortinget that we should deal with that kind of debate. The centre party will therefore not support the proposals from the minority. But we are behind a proposal together with the Workers' Party, asking that this matter be addressed in the ownership notice, and that we are also open to a discussion about whether the state should play a more active role in the general meetings. It may be that time has come. We also see that there are some of the other owners of the type of company that do it. Large pension funds are in and are more active owner-occupiers in general meetings than has normally been the country. So this is a very interesting debate, but it is a debate that does not belong here today. It is a debate that belongs in the context of the treatment of the ownership message.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2322	I would like to commend the proposer for promoting this proposal – and the proposers who have promoted this proposal in the past. It comes in the extension of the debate we had, which is about which oil it is really going to be lying down, in a world where we know that the oil must remain in order for us to reach the two degree goal. Instead, many of the parties said that Norway should not take a decision on this itself, because there is going to be a need for a lot of oil in the future, and that is not how we should govern this. Instead, we should have an international quota price. That kind of thinking is living in a dream world, because an international quota price we don't know is going to come. At least we who follow us know that in the international climate negotiations there is nothing to suggest that we get an international quota price. Then some of the representatives may think instead that if the tar sand in Canada is to lie down, it should not be Statoil who believes anything about this, as Tina Bru says, because they have to make money on what they want to make money on. The Storting should not interfere. In the case of this tar sand, which is not going to lie down because it becomes an international quota price, and which is not going to lie down because companies are not going to pick it up, maybe she believes Canada should decide that the oil sand will be lying instead. But she has already rejected that. The fact that countries themselves decide to leave some of their resources in their hands has, after all, rejected the large responsible parties in the previous debate. But we are glad that the discussion is actually about what kind of social responsibility we think it is necessary to take. Fortunately, we have had a movement in the Workers' Party, which is willing to go in and look at coal and at the State pension fund's investments in coal. I would say that the type of investment – and the type of investment that is avoided by climate considerations – should also apply to the companies in which the State has invested directly through the Ministry of Industry. In this way, I respect the argument put forward by Marit Arnstad, when she says that this should not be taken as a single matter; this should be taken into account in the ownership message. That is why I am going to support that proposal subsidiaryly. I would also encourage the Left and Christian People's Party to do the same. If you do not get what you want the most, you should at least ensure that we have a wide and proper debate on this in the context of the communication of ownership and that we have an overall debate on this. For that reason, I could imagine raising one question. When the state and Tord Lien in their commitment to the climate insist that we do what we can to prevent two-degree heating, is it so that when the state does, the state should not notify its companies that they should stay away from investments that are only possible if we do not reach the two-degree target? Or in order to repeat it in a slightly simpler way: shouldn't it be that when the state believes it is important to achieve the two-degree goal, the state also tells all companies in which the state is invested, that at least one should not invest in projects that gamble on the fact that what is the Norwegian state's policy internationally, namely to achieve the two-degree goal, is not achieved? For that is what happens when companies invest in coal when companies invest in the most polluting oil projects, including oil sands. For those who believe that coal is quite different from oil sands: it is that with the most efficient use of coal, one out more energy per contaminated unit of CO2 than with the least efficient use of oil extracted from oil sands. It's not like black is coal and white is oil – it's not like that. That is why I think it is good that we have a debate on oil sand, because oil sand is polluting – climate-polluting – and in many cases there are also major environmental damage locally related to oil sand production. That makes me think it is right that the Norwegian State that owns says that we should not be involved in the type of business. But then we have respect for the Workers' Party and the Centre's desire to take this into account in the ownership notification, and therefore I support it subsidiaryly. Let me ask you a final question to the Workers' Party and the Center Party: Is it so that you see that oil sand could be hit by this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2343	Time's up. The President will remind you that questions must also be addressed by the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2348	What is tar sand? Climate researcher James Hansen has pointed out the answer by pointing out that an extensive extraction of this resource involves crushing the very last hope of a sustainable future for future generations. This is acute, but it's not sensory. It is based on very solid, professional documentation. Then we have just had a debate where some of the strongest arguments for Norwegian offshore oil and gas activities are the claim that it is so climate efficient that it justifies continuing this production, at the expense of equivalent production that is less energy efficient, in other countries. Several have recalled that the production of tar sands is four to eight times, at least, as climate-polluting as for example. the production of oil on Norwegian base. Then we've heard a fascinating array of representatives – even from the Right – who are superior to each other in criticism of tar sand as a resource, and in the wish that Statoil should not invest in this resource. We hear one representative after another assuming that Statoil is industry-leading in climate. We've heard people refer to Statoil's 40 pst target. reduction of emissions related to tar sand production, and we have heard people refer to, above all, the ownership message as the tool that will lead to Statoil, as mainly a state-owned company, taking this responsibility. And we've heard a lot of concern about getting involved in what people call the company's daily operations. So what's the reality? Well, first of all, Statoil's tar sand exposure is anything but daily operations; it's a deep strategic investment – if anything is strategic, it's the tar response to Statoil in Canada. The reality is that, despite expectations that ownership policy will have an effect, it does not. Statoil is solidified in tar sands, they. They don't hear at all what Tina Bru from the Right or anyone else says about tar sands. They're in tar sand. And not only that: despite the promises to reduce the emissions of tar sand production in Canada by 40 pst, the emissions from Statoil's tar sand production in Canada rose by 25 pst. in 2013. And we know that Canada is pursuing exactly the same policy that the majority of the population has just fixed in the 23rd concession round discussion, that they will not reduce the use of their resources – and their resource is thus tar sand. So the question is, can't we control stronger than we control? Well, if Statoil is considering engaging again in corruption, in child labour, etc., there is little doubt as to what reaction would come from the government, and there is little doubt as to how soon it would come. So don't think it's impossible to run state control! The tar sand, in addition to the climate problem it creates, is a very large-scale economic gambling – as several have pointed out – with the fact that the climate policy of Norway is not going to work as an international spokesman. A new report from Carbon Tracker has stated that tar sand is the most risky resource to invest in. If the objectives of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Norwegian climate policy objectives for international action are met, the tar sand will erode first and the country’s ownership will disappear. I therefore think it is a pity that the majority continues to push ownership and ownership ahead of themselves as an excuse not to decide on a tar sand policy in Statoil that clearly ignores these signals. But the Green Party will, of course, support the initiative – or the proposal – of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party on a more focused debate on ownership and tar sand, and looks forward to participating in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2365	I am pleased to note that the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment does not endorse the proposal that the State should use its ownership power in Statoil to oblige the company to withdraw from oil sand operations in Canada. Two similar proposals were examined in the Stortinget in 2009 and 2010 respectively with the same results. Proposals to withdraw Statoil from oil sands have also been dealt with at all the general meetings of the company since 2009 and at the latest 14 May this year voted 99,51 p.m. by the owners against such a proposal. Statoil bought North American Oil Sands in 2007. It was a commercial decision taken by Statoil’s Board of Directors, which is the body responsible for this type of decision. I am pleased that Statoil has high ambitions to reduce CO2 emissions from its operations, not least oil sands, among others. in the development of new technologies. In addition, I think the representative Ljunggren is so good, and it is worth saying that Statoil is one of the few companies in this industry that are publishing their ambitions in the field of greenhouse gas emissions. The State has long been a major owner of several of the largest Norwegian listed companies. State holding of 67 p.m. in Statoil is today worth more than the rest of the state ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange. Of course, it is very important that in the exercise of state ownership emphasis is placed on predictability, professionalism and credibility. Ownership policy is pursued under a very clear division of roles between shareholders, board and management, as established by company law, and within the framework of the country's own principles, with a broad opening up in this room, for ownership management and company management. I noticed that the representative Andersen Eide called this to put formality in the way. Let me say this: I agree more with the representative Arnstad, who spoke about important principles of ownership management. The state holds enormous values on Oslo Stock Exchange, and in order to safeguard the interests of taxpayers, it is very important that these principles be maintained. It follows from these principles that the State that owns Statoil does not involve itself in investment decisions made by the companies. It's the responsibility of the board and the management. This principle has been established for several decades through changing governments and in the biggest announcement of ownership to which the Storting has treated and given clear support. Statoil is currently investing heavily in Norway and the rest of the world. The company participates in and bids in search areas, buys and sells shares and is involved in company transactions. Investment in oil sands is such an investment based on a commercial basis and is included in line with other investments in the overall portfolio of Statoil. I assume that Statoil carries out all relevant risk assessments in all investment decisions, whether it concerns geology, technological risk, financial and political risk or the risk of reputation and development in climate policy, for example. carbon pricing, which is clearly relevant to this specific decision. It is an essential principle that the management and management of the companies responsible for the investment decision are not the shareholders. Against this background, it is my clear opinion that this is not a matter for the General Assembly of Statoil to or should be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2387	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2390	My question is whether the Council of State will consider reviewing the environmental and climate profile of state companies under the Oil and Energy Ministry portfolio in the context of the ownership notification, including assessing the need for stricter climate and environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2395	I'm glad, as I said before, that Statoil not only has high ambitions in the environment and climate field, but also even communicates these ambitions without it being a result of the management of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. So it's natural for me to say that I'm concerned that Statoil is actively taking social responsibility and is actively taking the environmental responsibility they have. There is a expectation that for many years there has been a broad political agreement to apply to the exercise of state ownership, and that is something I naturally believe should also be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2400	No matter how one twists and turns on it, there is no doubt that oil sand contaminates. Statoil's commitment to what can be described as one of the most dirty forms of oil extraction is at the expense of the world's climate and the laboriously built environmental reputation of the Norwegian oil industry. We believe that the matter is so serious that in this case the State must engage, and I expect the Council of State to see the seriousness of this. My question is: is it really in the interests of Statoil and the Norwegian authorities that this oil extraction should continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2405	As I said, Norwegian taxpayers through the state own significant values on Oslo Stock Exchange. The principles of ownership management have made the Norwegian ownership, i.e. the state's ownership of shares in Oslo Børs, perceived to be well managed and predictable. It has helped protect huge billions of Norwegian taxpayers for many, many years. One of the key principles that have created this predictability and these values is precisely the principle that commercial decisions are taken by the management of the companies and the board of directors, not by the shareholders, which in this case is the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2410	At the end of his speech, the Council of State pointed out and clearly stated that the General Assembly should not interfere with the assessments made by the company, even in this area, and he expects the company to have an offensive climate and environmental policy. But at the same time, we have to assume that this is an AS operating within the framework of the Share Act, and it may be that Statoil has interests other than the Norwegian State. Thus, it must be the owner who makes the overall assessments of what the company should be involved, not the strategic choices. There is no doubt that these are issues that, when there is no majority here, need to be assessed in a statement of ownership. On the left, it has been a purely appropriate question: are we going to vote in favour of a proposal or not? We have assessed that this ownership message comes so quickly that we will not be able to get a proper assessment before it comes. But then I have to ask the Council of State: can you expect an assessment of this issue in the ownership message?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2415	I have to try in this case to answer for the ownership management of Statoil. There are other companies in my portfolio, but it's Statoil we're discussing now, and then I want to address one thing: The state is not owned in Statoil alone. There are also minority shareholders, who have a very important but also high level of protection in the public stock law. That's good. I believe it is important that we as owners, one of several owners in Statoil's case, have high expectations of environmental standards and ambitions – ambitions and standards for social responsibility, ethics, etc. – in the case of the companies we own. So I think I have to let it go, because this is a matter that several government councils probably have an opinion about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2422	I'm going to quote Christine T. Meisingset, who is the leader of the sustainable investments of Storbrand, who said the following in a press release about why they have withdrawn from six oil companies and 13 coal companies: ‘We do this to reduce fossil and CO2 exposure and ensure long-term stable returns. If the declared climate objectives become reality, these resources become worthless purely economically». [[...]] Is it true that the Norwegian State-owned company has invested in companies that are gambling with investments that violate the state's own objectives of achieving the two-degree target?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2440	I note that this has ended with the representative Holmås being against oil production both on the base and in oil sand. Then there's really only Saudi Arabia left. We just have to take note of that. I have tried to be very clear on this. I understand that SV is a party that has been very much for state ownership in Norway. There is no doubt that one of the reasons why there has been a broad political consensus on the state ownership in Norway, and one reason why the state ownership in Norway has been good, is that we have managed to relate to these general principles, which have also created confidence in the stock market that the state is a good owner, because we know that the stock market experiences us as. From these principles it follows that the State that owns Statoil does not involve itself in the investment decisions. That is the responsibility of the board and the management.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2447	The majority of the population – the majority of the parties – have expressed deep dissatisfaction in this debate with Statoil’s tar sand exposure and great concern about the climate impacts of that involvement. The Council of State, for its part, presupposes that Statoil assumes leading climate responsibility and has ‘great expectations’ of Statoil’s environmental ambitions. But Statoil doesn't live up to this, they don't take this climate responsibility, they don't actually show these environmental ambitions, and they ignore the fact that the Storting is deeply dissatisfied with the company's climate exposure. When the Council of State refers to ownership policy as a governance tool, does the Council of State feel that the exercise of ownership by the State corresponds to the Council of State's own assumptions and expectations of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2452	Let me just first make a brief reflection around that it is probably very wise of the oil and energy minister not to declare strong dissatisfaction with companies in which he has a significant position. It has some consequences that we'd rather keep out of the storeroom, I think. I feel that I have explained several times about how I look at this overall. I believe that it is natural for us, as owners, to demand the overall level that the companies we own should show that they have good ethical standards, take environmental responsibility and take social responsibility. So, as I've said sometimes now, it's an important principle, which has served Norwegian taxpayers very well for many decades, that commercial decisions are not taken in the departments, but in the company's administration and management.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2459	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2464	The representative Tina Bru had good arguments as to why the ownership message is the right place to decide on the question that we are dealing with today. We fully agree with that in the Labour Party, and therefore we have proposed a review of the climate profile of state companies in the context of the ownership announcement. The representative of Bru, having argued strongly for the importance of a change in Statoil’s tar sand project, should be able to support this proposal. Like Marit Arnstad, I am also surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left, with the strong arguments they use against tar sand, cannot support our proposal. It is a review of the climate profile of the different companies, but also an assessment of the need for stricter environmental and climate requirements. They can see our proposal as a step on the way to pulling Statoil out of the tar sand project. The representative Heikki Holmås asked directly whether we in the Workers' Party believe that the proposal we have promoted is an opening to discuss Statoil's tar sand activity in the ownership message. The answer to that is simple and straightforward: Yes, we mean that. We believe that in the ownership message we must have a broad review of the climate profile of all state-owned companies, not just under the Oil and Energy Ministry's portfolio. It will also be a follow-up to the 2011 ownership announcement, and we will have to consider including Statoil’s activity in Canada. I just want to end by saying that even if Statoil withdraws from Canada, tar sands will still be produced and extracted in Canada. The climate gain is equal to zero, but the reputation of Statoil and Norway will be significantly improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2475	First, I want to say that it is very good that we have a debate on the environmental profile of our state-owned companies here in Stortinget today. It's quite obvious that there's a lot of commitment around this issue among the representatives in the hall. I think that's fine. Then it has been pointed out that an international climate agreement may make tar sand unprofitable. She could vote. That assessment must be made by companies if it is to happen. But it is interesting that the representatives who point this out in this debate and argue from it are the same representatives as in the previous debate we had here in the Chamber, who thought that this was quite unlikely to happen – we were not going to succeed in an international climate policy. I think that's a little special. I welcome a debate on climate and environmental requirements in the ownership message, but not a debate on individual investments. It is up to the companies themselves to decide. We're going to lay down the framework, and it's based on the framework the companies are going to assess their activities and their profitability in the projects. So I just want to say that Statoil is industry leader in climate-efficient production within tar sands. They also have their own research unit working to reduce the environmental impact of their activities in Canada. None of us are pushing anything in front of us here when we say that we are going to discuss this in the context of the ownership message, but we are busy having a neat ownership policy. This is exactly what I think the representative Arnstad did well in his post earlier. Of course, we should discuss the climate and environment in the context of the ownership message. I assume that we'll have the opportunity to do that when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2486	I must say that I do not think the Council of State answered the representative Elvesuen very well about the question of whether this will be addressed in the ownership message. The representative of Elvesuen should not feel completely calm about the answer he received to that question. The only way to feel completely reassured will be about the Christian People's Party and the Left vote for the Central Party and the Labour Party's proposal here today. Then we will still be able to really get this matter into a more fundamental and constructive track, in the sense that we could discuss where it is going to be discussed, and where it belongs, namely in a ownership message submitted by the government to the Stortinget. Because there is a way in which the State as owner can influence the companies in which one has interests and where one can also participate in setting environmental requirements, and that is through the general meeting. It also applies in listed companies, sailing if you have many other smaller shareholders. But then it has to be done on a principle basis. It must then be debated in principle. Then one must also be able to assess how other institutional or financial owners choose to do so, for example. Big fire, which was mentioned in a previous post here. In that case, one should also consider how one State should follow up on each company, not just Statoil. Then, in my opinion, we had an opportunity for a neat debate, not this case-to-case marking of this issue. Then the matter had received the attention it deserved. The centre party is not going to be involved in dealing with such an important and fundamental issue as is being raised here today. We want this to be reviewed on a more fundamental basis. In such a fundamental review, the Centre party would have thought that even as owner, Statoil could have been active and asked to leave oil sand operations – then in a proper way through the general meeting. I also have to say, when I hear the last speech by the representative, Tina Bru, that the Right quite factually too, according to what the representative said, should be able to vote in favour of the proposal that the Central Party and the Labour Party have presented here today, and get the treatment that such a proposal deserves, and the principle debate that the state companies deserve from us, from the side of Storting, because that proposal does not require a new one to be submitted before the ownership notice is presented, but it asks for one to address these questions during the discussion of the ownership notice. And as far as I know, the ownership message is submitted so late that it is unlikely to be processed in this room until the next spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2495	I take the floor because I was provoked by the Council of State's attempt to ridicule our position in the last two debates by saying that if we're both going to be against oil sand in Canada and against Norwegian oil extraction, then it's just Saudi Arabia again. No, that's not what we're saying. What we're saying is that everyone in the world has to contribute to keeping oil, coal and gas lying down. As I said before, we have at least five times as much oil, coal and gas reserves in the world as the world tolerates, according to the government's own climate ambitions to try to stop global warming to not be more than two degrees. That's when I say everyone has to leave something behind. We do not say that we should wind up Norwegian oil production in the North Sea, but we say that we should stop looking for more oil until we have decided how much of the Norwegian oil and gas that should remain lying down. And that's what we're also discussing here: the principles of what kind of investment state companies are going to do. For the question that I asked Tord Lien, and which he did not answer, was: Should Statoil make investments that are only profitable if the government's goal of preventing global warming from becoming more than two degrees is not achieved? The fundamental question is, is it good that state companies gamble on the fact that the state is failing with its policy? In other contexts, namely in the state pension fund abroad, through the government's active ownership policy and the administration that is taking place there, we have said that the pension fund in its ownership exercise should influence companies to avoid child labour. We have said that we should influence companies not to oppose international climate agreements, because we have seen that many companies do. But then we say, shouldn't these principles also apply to our involvement in Statoil? Should not the Council of State agree that Statoil should not make investments that are not profitable if we are to achieve the climate objectives set by the government and the Storting itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2502	It's been an interesting debate. First of all, the principle of whether we're based on a Document No. 8-proposals may decide to withdraw from tar sands. I think we can clearly do that. If you have a big deal with a clear position and a clear majority in such a case, it is a simple decision, and a government follows it up. There should be no discussion at all. That is what we should also do in this matter, from a climate perspective, but not least if we really believe that we are going to achieve the two-degree objective, based on an economic assessment, both look at what is in Norway's interest, and also Statoil should make an assessment of what is in Statoil's interest in such a polluting and cost-intensive project as tar sand. Then there will be a discussion about the proposal for a ownership message. When we have a cooperation agreement with the government parties that we should strengthen the climate agreement, that we should pursue a more active environmental policy, I just have to agree from the answer given by the government council that it was not satisfactory. Then I have to be clear that we assume that both sustainability and climate issues are part of the ownership message when it is presented. I can also guarantee that there is no doubt that this will be a main theme when the ownership message is presented, and in the treatment of it. Because when there is no majority in order to implement a direct decision here, this will also be a main theme in the ownership notification, both towards tar-sanding – and I also noticed Right’s posts – and towards using a more active ownership to get a more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly policy also in the other companies where the state has a large ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2511	The representatives who have spoken will be familiar with what is my constitutional responsibility, that is the ownership management of Statoil. And I have expectations that Statoil will take social responsibility, sustainability, the environment and climate challenges seriously in its activities and make assessments of these issues in the decisions they make at the overall level. It's also true in other fields, such as ethics, which must be said to be part of social responsibility – as I've said several times here already, I think it was Eidsvoll Holmås who challenged me on it. So I've tried to lie on a principle line here, but I find some reason to repeat what I said instead: if you reduce the use of gas from half of the world's energy supply, as is the case today, to a quarter, there's room for almost all the oil, even in the context of the two-degree target. So the question is, can we? Yes, the Storting is sovereign, so the Storting can decide what you want, but it will be a violation of a principle that has been in force in this house for many decades, and that has earned Norwegian taxpayers very well during this period. And I find once again reason to remember the enormous ownership of the Norwegian state, and how important it is to these values that this ownership is well managed. It was believed that the red-green government was important, and it also considers the Right-Fremskritsparte government to be important. I'm glad that those main lines also have the support of the majority in the hall still.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2526	Is it so to understand that there has been no debate on Statoil and tar sands before? No, it's not. There has been a tough debate on this for very many years, how many have presented very heavy evidence of how bad it is that Statoil engages in tar sands. So why is Statoil still in tar sand? Could this be related to the closeness of the Council of States to assume that Statoil is responsible for climate change? Could this be related to the fact that the Right and the Representative Bru very much want Statoil out of the tar sand, and have not intended to cross two sticks to do something about it? Could it be related to the fact that the representative Arnstad, from the Central Party, is now waving his index finger and wants to have a neat debate and not a so-called "negligible" mark on tar sands, now that the Greens are promoting this issue? As if the ownership policy has not been pursued for eight years – from the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV – and as if the ownership policy has not been pursued, without any result in terms of influencing Statoil's attitude to and involvement in tar sands? This proposal from the Green Party comes because this mythical ownership policy of the majority has no effect at all, and because the majority obviously does not have the slightest intention of putting power behind the demands, despite the fact that we own the company and have shown many times that we do exactly what we want with that company if we really want to. What remains is to see whether the climate and tar sand exposure that has been expressed from one batch after another in this room today is actually going to produce some tangible results when the ownership message and ownership policy are about to be discussed. That's when we're going to measure the Progress Party, the Right, the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, etc. whether there is actually something in the will to exercise a state ownership that has the climate effect that so many say they want it to have. We look forward to that debate with excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2551	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given following submissions from the main speakers of the parties and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2560	First, I would like to thank the Committee for a good task. This is a matter of concern to the Committee, and we would like to have it better. That's why it's also very nice that the left has brought this up, with suggestions for a NOU. The proposal of the representative of the Left Terje Breivik, Sveinung Rotevatn and Abid Q. Raja on a comprehensive review of the forester home care system is an important contribution to the recent debate. There we have seen that there is a lot of good going on, a lot of new thoughts and ideas going on to improve care, but unfortunately we also discover that there are defects and errors. The proposal promoted by the Left could lead to better solutions for foster children and foster parents, recruitment and follow-up. It's important to know what to do better, and get a confirmation of whether to continue some of the things that work. The Committee believes that everything we see works well in today's care, it is important to continue. At the same time, it is important to recognise that there are unresolved tasks or tasks that we need to do better. Quality and the best interests of children are important overall objectives. State Council Horne believes in her letter of reply that it is important that all the measures being taken continue, and believes that we do not have time for a NOU, because it can destroy or stop much of the good that is happening. A growth report is estimated to be completed in 2015, against a NOU in 2017. The Committee believes that whatever the choice is made, all measures and plans must continue. Neither a staging message nor a NOU should stop that work. That is how far the Committee agrees. While the majority – Right, Christian People’s Party and the Advance Party – will have a big message, the minority will have a NOU. I expect that the majority will justify their view further. I also believe that the non-committee rapporteurs will contribute to the debate and further justify their proposal. The Workers' Party wants to support the proposals from the Left in creating a NOW. Through a NOU, all aspects of foster care can be investigated and checked. We believe, as the Hearing Officers – the Foster Home Association and the FO – clearly told us about the hearing, that the time it takes is worth spending. A NOU implies that all professional bodies are involved, it is more professionally independent, and it is more professionally justified. It is important for the hearing bodies. Then we can then get the political treatment that anchors the knowledge we get, and then see the way forward. There are a lot of pages that need to be reviewed. I can frame up: legal and economic framework conditions, after-sales protection, party rights, adoption rights, wages and pensions for foster parents, use of institutions, coercion. That's how I can keep going. We've got ideas about this and a lot, a lot more. The working party is concerned about whether a big message can take all this into account and be professionally well anchored, so that we all agree on the challenge picture – that we all agree on the solutions we choose, and that those solutions are technically well-founded. The left's proposal is therefore the right one, and we choose to listen to the professional advice we have received. We've checked, we've double-checked, and the hearing bodies believe the same thing: a NOW is the best, a big message isn't enough. I believe that it is important for us politicians to have a good anchor when we are going to lay the framework for future foster care. We're going to lay the framework for foster home care far, far ahead. I hope that the proposal – which I now raise on behalf of the Labour Party, because the Left does not sit in the Committee – will have a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2588	The representative of Sonja Mandt has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2591	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Left for addressing an important issue and getting ahead of it by promoting this proposal for a representative. The theme is important for the children involved, and important for adults who take on the formidable task of opening their home for one or more children who need a place to live and be loved. Creating a safe environment for a child who has come from the insecurity is a task we have to take the most seriously. That all children receive an offer tailored to their needs must be general. That means that the child has to have his or her opinion and colleagues. There's got to be a good mapping, so we hit with the first position. Children and foster parents must be followed closely. If you have been traumatized when you were a few years old, it is not certain that the challenges are coming out early in your teens, for example. That's why good follow-up and a good network around foster parents is important, even around those that seem to be doing fine right now. For some children, maybe an institution place combined with foster parents will be good for a period of time. Nor should we forget that for some children institutions can also be necessary and desirable. The right is impatient on behalf of the children and is therefore pleased that the proposers have come to us to join an investigation in the form of a notification instead of a NOU. The left is equally impatient on behalf of children, and I thank you for the good cooperation. A NOW might have arrived in 2017 at the earliest. So now we get a message and a review of the area before the end of 2015. In this matter, the Council of State has provided a very detailed reply letter showing that this is an area where the government has ambitious objectives. These share the right. The strong growth in the use of foster homes has led to challenges in foster homes. These are, as mentioned above, about recruitment, good pre-location examination, good follow-up and guidance of foster parents and about the financial environment of foster parents. These are essential aspects for recruiting foster parents and preventing accidental fractures that require the children to move unnecessarily. More measures and investigations have already been launched in this area, but we nevertheless see the need for a review and for some lines to be drawn on what tomorrow's foster home will look like. At the same time, we are impatient and concerned about what the Council of State said — that while a large public investigation is ongoing, there will be limited scope for major changes in this area. It would be unnatural to initiate the major changes before a NOU has concluded, in respect of the work to be done. It is therefore important to shorten the time for investigations and start implementing them. The current knowledge base of the government, which will be further completed during the year, provides a good basis for assessing essential aspects of the foster home measure. Therefore, we promoted the proposal for a separate wholesale notification by the end of 2015. I am referring to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2612	The representative of Mette Tønder has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2617	In this Chamber a year ago, the following proposals were made by the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party: ‘The government asks the government to consider launching a public investigation into foster home care.’ Now the Right won't have any NOW. They think it's keeping a big message. What assessments and new information do the Right now consider that it is not necessary to hear from any of the Hearing Officers in the case of a public inquiry — that it is a big deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2629	The right is impatient on behalf of the children. Now, when we get information about all the investigations that are in place, as well as all the information that is already there, we believe that we get a good review by getting a message. So we can get that in 2015. A NOW we might get in 2017 – and then a message after that. We are impatient on behalf of the children. That is why we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2634	Can I then interpret the representative barrels so that the hearing bodies, i.e. the Fosterheim Association, the researchers and the FO, are not impatient on behalf of the children, and that they do not want the best for the children? The hearings were clear and clear that we should spend the time a NOU takes, because it is the most important thing to get professional anchoring. What makes the Right more impatient about the best of children than the hearing bodies I refer to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2641	I have great respect for the hearing bodies, and I have great respect for the difference of opinion that lies with the hearing bodies. We're in favour of a message to get a good review and a good overview of what we've already done. I have heard that during the debate we have been called the investigative government of the Workers' Party. It was in another case. We don't want to be, and we're now going for a message to get activity in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2648	In order to follow up on the part of the representative Sonja Mangt, the question is: When you land on going in for a big message instead of going in for a NOU and a big message, does that mean that you think there is enough knowledge? The opinion of the hearing bodies is that there is a need to summarise, review and systematise this knowledge in a better way, so as to provide a comprehensive and comprehensive overview. What makes the representative think something quite different than most hearing bodies think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2658	The representative has listened to what the Council of State has given us of information. I have never received such an adequate letter in a Document 8 case at any time – you frame all the investigations that have already been made. A message is going to compile this, it's going to look further, and it's going to give us an answer on what tomorrow's foster home is going to look like. That is why we are in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2663	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2666	I would like to thank representatives Terje Breivik, Sveinung Rotevatn and Abid Q. Raja for raising an important issue. I would say so that almost everything they deal with issues, I agree. I think they point to a lot of interesting things – a lot of important things. I know they're impatient in the Left. So are we in the Progress Party. We are impatient on behalf of the children, foster parents and all who work within foster homes and with the placement of children. The progress party simply does not have time to wait for a NOO and put everything on hold. I record that the Workers' Party is now very busy with a NOU and writes in an annotation form that this has been a known problem for a few decades. There have been so many changes that it is now high time. If you've been concerned about it over the last decades – since it's been challenges – why didn't you do something in the last eight years? Why didn't the Labour Party vote yes the last time this was up? That's my question. It's been a few more years, and you're still going to wait. This is unbelievable. For the Advancement Party, children are the most important – and foster home parents and quality. We know that accidental movements are a major challenge. I think it's worrying when a party that's been in government for eight years, pointing to the big challenge and the big differences over the last decades, hasn't done anything. I'm glad we have the Left, who is so concerned about foster homes and foster homes – along with the government parties. I'm glad, because now we can take action. Instead of putting things on hold, we can get action – at the best for them, and the worst that exists, namely our foster home children. It's not been so many days since the last time we discussed in this room how to prevent and prevent unnecessary transfers of care. There are many things that have to be done, and that should have been done a long time ago. I fully agree with the Workers' Party – a lot of things have happened in the last few decades. That is why the Progress Party wants us to get a message and concrete action. We have a lot of actions that are already clear, and – as the Council of State writes – mass that is going on. I have faith in the future and in that we finally get action, not just plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2681	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2684	It's interesting to listen to the representative Stordalen. At the same time, it's a little hard to get what the Progress Party actually thinks. Less than a year ago, the political priorities of foster home care were very critical. The previous government started a major research effort, and a research report has since come to indicate that there is a need to see actions in the context. All those working with foster home problems feel that there is a need to look at this through a professional approach — not a political message, as a big message is. Why is it that one year ago the need was clearly seen and started work to gain more knowledge, but now it is not going to take advantage of the knowledge that has been acquired?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2691	If the previous government, which was also part of the Aasrud representative, had started work that time, it would have been one step closer – another year closer. You've spent another year. If you've seen Focus and a number of reports in the last few months, you know we don't have time to wait. We have to start acting. The Progress Party will not wait for the children to take action because we need plans. Now it's more important to act, and that's why we do it with a lot of measures. There's a lot of known parameters, and then we'll see if you can do other things as well. But now there are many things that are clear, and they are the Progress Party willing to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2696	I just have to remind the representative of the Stordalen that in the last nine months his party has been in government, and then I would like to ask in concrete terms: what actions have now been initiated and what we see in, for example, some results. the revised budget, in the case of foster home care?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2701	I think that the representative of Aasrud can also read from the letter of reply to the Council of State, and has been included in the debate, that there is a lot of action ahead, and that not only is this being put on hold, as the Labour Party clearly wishes. It's a little strange, because I'd rather put the question back to the representative Aasrud: what has changed now, since you said no yourself in the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2706	I can answer that, because one of the important things that was a follow-up to the big message that was being addressed here a year ago was that a great research work was started. There has been a research report that points to the need for a NOU, and there is knowledge that we think it makes sense to take inwards. That's why we think that's the basis for a NOW where you can see things in context. So it's interesting if it's going to be like that every time you need to start a NOU, which I'm counting on also the Solberg government is going to take advantage of, you're going to put things on hold. Rather the opposite: Of course, it is possible to work on improvements and development of services even if you have a NOU work in progress. If you don't want to get new knowledge, and I don't think either of us deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2713	In the case of NOW, I'm not against NOUs as a principle. But now we're talking about children – foster home children – and foster home parents in a desperate situation. We are not talking about things or about systems, we are talking about people – including foster parents – in the most vulnerable situation. It's a desperate situation. I also think the representative Aasrud has read about, and looked at TV, a number of things, a number of tragic events, a number of sad things that are the result of the system being wrong. So we know that there are some known parameters we can do something with now, continuously. At least I believe that this is not the time to put things on hold. Now is the time for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2720	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2724	I would like to start by thanking the proposers for promoting an important and well-worked proposal. The Christian People's Party has been committed to long-term improvements in foster home provision and has on several occasions set up an action plan for full foster home coverage and a stability reform in child protection. Children who need to be moved from their homes need a stable and safe care offer, and for most, foster homes will be the best offer. When the public then decides to take the children out of their home, it is unacceptable that we do not provide a full care offer immediately. foster parents make an invaluable effort for the children involved, and for society. This is a job we have to value and facilitate in a good way. It should not be the meeting with the public that makes the job too demanding, as in some cases we have unfortunately heard that it can be. This is not about the reluctance of child protection, but about the lack of resources and the lack of knowledge and competence. A good place is when a child comes to a foster family that is motivated and prepared for what this child carries with him/her luggage into the relationship. These children have experienced major problems in care, and many have experienced abuse, which is, of course, reflected in behavior and the ability to form good relationships. Therefore, it is important to look at how the child is investigated before child protection finds a family, and what kind of information, follow-up and guidance the foster parents receive, so that they can handle this task in a good way. Being a foster family seems to require more and more of the family, and the use of free purchases is increasing. It is important to review the rights of foster parents to pensions and social security. As it is today, foster parents who are released do not earn pension credits while they are at home and do this important job for society. Free purchases also lead to loss of income in most cases. The requirements for foster parents have changed, and we also need to be willing to look at whether the scheme around them needs to change. This will be very important in the context of a comprehensive communication on foster care. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important in this matter to ensure that we have a comprehensive review of foster care, and we have therefore had a good dialogue with the proposers. Today, we will be voting in favour of the recommendation from the majority of the Committee on the preparation of a major communication on foster home care by the end of 2015, together with the proposers in the Left. This is because we want all the good actions referred to by the Council of State in its letter of reply to be implemented, which could have been delayed by a public inquiry, which will take several years. There is a need for a comprehensive review that looks at all the challenges in a life-cycle perspective and for concrete proposals for improvement. We now expect the government to come up with a message that contains this, and if it doesn't happen against assumption, it's a short way from word to action here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2739	Thank you to the Left, who takes up an important matter. The centre party will support the proposal to launch a NOW. Children who cannot live at home with their own parents must be offered in foster homes or institutions. Fosterheim is the most common placement measure, and the proposers indicate that as of 31 December 2012, a total of 10,254 children and young people are placed in reinforced and ordinary foster homes. A research report has recently been submitted to show that researchers recommend that a public outreach should be undertaken with a view to obtaining a holistic review of the fosterheim Institute. I hear there's going to be talk about finally getting action, one has just talked, one has seen things wait. I think there is a little lack of respect for all those who do the job and care throughout Norway. What we're talking about is future foster homes. It is known that with increased use of foetal home placements, a challenge is associated with recruiting a sufficient number of high-quality foster homes, and the waiting time for foster homes has increased. This gives cause for concern. We have to do something about this. This gives cause for concern that there was an increase in the municipal ownership of institutions without corresponding increases in foster homes. This strengthens the incentive for the child-resistance services to choose foster homes rather than the institution of financial care, and for children who should have been in institutions to be placed in foster homes. This could result in more accidental placements, and we know it's unfortunate for children. It is serious for both children and foster parents when one is moved unnecessarily. Good follow-up and precautionary conditions can both increase the recruitment of foster homes and prevent established foster homes from giving up. Today, there are major differences between state and municipal foster homes, and there is a need for stronger national leadership for the whole of foster home care. The Fosterheim Association has raised the need for a national review and believes that such a review is necessary. This supports the Center Party. The central party believes that the issue of the future fosterheim system is so important that it requires the kind of recording that only one NOU can make. We are all certain that foster homes should be the main measure when children and young people can no longer live at home, but we have not discussed the content of foster home provision on a broad basis. The government is now notifying a notification of a crash. The center party believes that this is not sufficient, and that foster care needs a thorough review. An argument that we would like to meet in the discussion is whether or not a NOW is necessary when there is so much professional development in the foster home area. We mean yes. Research shows that professional development takes place in what is always perceived as a need for the field. Our point is that there is no conscious policy that governs development. So the question is whether a NOW will stop the ongoing development. We mean she won't. Research and development and other technical developments will go parallel and will in themselves make important contributions to a NOO work. But the most important thing is how to get a holistic and thoughtful development in the foster home field, especially in the field of child protection in general. I think the question of the future foster home system is so important that it requires the kind of recording that only one NOU can make, because we're all a few that foster home should be the main measure when children can no longer live at home. Based on this basic meaning, the Center Party supports a NOO, but we will also vote in favour of the setting secondary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2758	Thanks to the case spokesperson for a thorough and good work. The growth provides the main basis for a child's ability and ability to realize his or her own dreams. For children who have a family situation that ends up taking care of them, fosterheim is the priority option. Most children who have to move from their original parents or move to their home need new, close care relationships within a home. The need for foster homes is increasing. For years to come, we need to recruit at least 1,000 new foster homes every year. Fosterheim has been considered as the most important care measure for children under care. Yes, more than eight out of ten locations are in foster homes. Running such a job without us acquiring the most relevant knowledge, is therefore an unnecessary experiment with one of the most expensive things we have: vulnerable children. The goal must be to avoid foetal positions that do not work well for the children in question. Any child who has to move between different foster homes and/or different care measures, and who has an unnecessary insecure childhood, is one child too much. Making being a foster home more attractive is important both for quantity and for quality. Although attractiveness in this context is also about economics, it is primarily idealism that drives those who take on a foster home responsibility. If we are to motivate others to do such an important social task, to take care of those we all have, it is therefore so much about follow-up, support and interaction with child protection, both before, in particular during the process and after a ‘closed’ location – the end is in quotes, because the rule is that the relationships that are connected in good foster homes are life-long. Unfortunately, we know that far from everything works as well in that way today. More knowledge, not least about seeing things in context, is desperately needed. As one of the proposers of the case we are now handling, I am very happy that we are now working on a big message about the foster care that will be completed the next year. That the Committee is as clear as he is, both the majority and the minority, about the importance of the Left's proposal, makes me genuinely happy and optimistic on behalf of the children and both current and future foster homes. I and Left also choose to take the Minister's floor when she is as clear as she is in the letter of reply to the committee that the roundabout of a NOU is not necessary. Nothing is better than to achieve the same thing directly in a big message up to the next year than to have to wait for the two to three years of a NOO work, and then wait again for a big message in the wake of such a NOO. However, the left has clear expectations of the big message, which we expect the Minister to be able to sign out today. The notification must have clear objectives, concrete actions with the following resources for the whole of the foster home care system and should include: addressed the following: More knowledge of the type of care facilities that respond to children’s needs, now and in the long term: foster homes, institutions, SOS children’s cities, two-base systems, etc. Reconciliation arrangements Reconciliations of adoptions Partial party rights to foster parents Frameworks for guidance and follow-up of foster home Fosterheim education in the hajskulen Increased knowledge of the municipality's work with foster home Follow-up of biological parents Roles to institutions for distribution, treatment and care needs Of course, the list is not exhaustive. We need a powerful force in foster care. Knowledge needs to be incorporated into a political and professional context in order to further develop a good path for foster home work. For the Left, it is important to avoid a patchwork policy in the future when it comes to children and young people coming under public care. They're our responsibility. The size of the message, and not least the measures it triggers, must of course be reflected in it. In conclusion, I would like to ask the SV to amend proposal No. 3 for a transmission proposal and also hopes that the Minister will be able to confirm that she will follow it, because it really makes sense that it is part of a big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2807	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2810	It was a good proposal left in its time to the Stortinget, so good that we want to support it. So in the meantime, the Left has withdrawn and will rather go for a message, despite the fact that the hearing bodies that were involved said that it is just a NOW we need. Normally it is that if we politicians face massive opposition from the hearing bodies when we make a proposal, we have to think about whether we are on the right track, but if we get massive support for our proposals, we may feel that we are on the right track. Now the Left actually got massive support from those who were at the hearing, to go for a NOU and not a big message. What was it really in the hearing that made the Left go against? What convinced the Left that a NOW was not right?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2819	One of the strengths of democracy is that one can acquire new knowledge in the process and discussion of a matter. The letter received by the Committee from the Minister, supplemented by additional information in the negotiations here on the house, the time factor required by a NOU and the possible additional knowledge a NOU will represent, assessed against the precarious need that is here – here and now – has made the Left feel that a forecast for the next year is better than one in 2017-2018.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2824	Yes, I fully agree with Breivik that of course you should not wait too long for action, and I hope that the government is active in promoting measures for this important area – continuously. I hope not the signals that a NOU would have led to all actions being put on hold, means that all measures should now be put on hold until the message comes. I believe that when one sees a need, and when one has action clear, one should promote them continuously and not sit and wait for such work to be carried out. Many of the measures outlined by Breivik on the pulpit are important, but a red thread through what he reads is that there is a need for knowledge about these things, and it is precisely through a NOW that you can ensure that that knowledge can be given. Why are you so afraid to acquire that knowledge in parallel with working for ongoing measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2831	Just to remind Grande of basic social liberal ideology: they show trust, take responsibility. I myself have had the pleasure of sitting in this room discussing child protection in different facets and listening to the minister. I'm not in doubt that she's serious about this, and that she's going to get involved in this. We basically trust what she writes and say in the course of this treatment. Then I have no difficulty saying, as the Christian People's Party said from the speaker's chair instead: if, contrary to what one expects, it should be wrong, the road is very short in the next round, i.e. everything in 2015, to also take the representative Grande on the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2836	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2839	Thank you very much to the proposer for addressing this proposal. Like the previous representative, I think that this proposal is so good that it should be supported. We can do two different things about foster homes: either we can say that here we lack knowledge, we need more knowledge, and therefore we should create a NOW to gather and put together the knowledge needed to make good policy. That is the feedback we have received from the hearing bodies and through the rounds we have had, and therefore we support the original proposal of the Left to create a NOU. At the same time, we see no good reason not to support Solvency Horne and the government in that they want to make a big message because they think they already have enough knowledge to put this together in a good way. So we end up in a situation where SV is going to support the government in what they want, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, to make a big message, but also to support the Workers' Party's proposal to create a NOU. As an appeal to the Minister, I would like to say that when so many people say that there is a need for more knowledge and more compilation of facts, it is not foolish if you – even if you want to be offensive and make a big message and put your stamp on this and don't wait three years to make a big message – decide during that big message that it would be wise to make a public investigation as well, since it doesn't get a majority right now. These things are not contradictory, but can, on the contrary, help to support the further development of the policy that you want to put forward. I would warn against doing as Morten Stordalen does, to draw the strawman's argument into the debate, because no one here has taken up the matter of waiting for action. Everyone says very clearly from, even in the position, that it is not that if you were to get a majority for a public investigation, which we do not get in this room today, it should not prevent the government from implementing what you think is good things that work. That's why I want to warn you not to go into this kind of strawman argumentation. In addition, we propose the following proposals: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the experience and advice of the foetuses is well provided in the public investigation to be prepared and that the foetuses are given their advice on any proposals that may be promoted.’ But we also pray Solveig Horne and the government ‘ensure that the parent children’s own experiences and advice are well presented in the main message to be prepared and that the foetuses are given advice on any proposals that may be promoted’. Since a public inquiry is not currently being conducted, it is extremely important that the foster children – throughout the process – be involved and given their voice. And I noticed the appeal from the Left's representative to turn this into a transmission proposal. We can turn this into a transmission proposal if the government and the state council confirm that she intends to ensure exactly that. I would like to refer to Elisabeth Backe-Hansen, head of the research programme and NOVA Report 16/2013, who has made important contributions and strongly encouraged the development of a NOU on the basis of a broad research-based experience in the field. She was the project manager of the four-year research programme on foster homes, which was completed in January of this year, and the conclusion of that research programme was among others. one such NOU as the Left suggested in its time, and so has the Norwegian foster home association for several years. Our proposals are, therefore, that if we want to give children better protection and take on the basis of what they need, we must listen to them in matters that affect them and concern them. We recently celebrated the 200th anniversary of the Constitution by writing the children's right to be heard – the child's participation and the principle of the best – into the Constitution, and it was time! The fact that children have a constitutional participation underlines the evolution that has occurred in society, where kids have gone from being parents' property to becoming independent individuals, independent people, to being listened to and heard. Therefore, I hope that this will be included in the big message that should now be made, and I would strongly encourage the Council of State to also assess whether a public investigation may be necessary in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2871	I also want to pay tribute to the author of the proposal for raising this debate, a debate in which, in fact, all the parties have participated, on a very important matter. Putting a searchlight on what is going on in foster homes and on the children who need it there is important, because foster homes constitute a central and very important placement option within child protection. The last few years have been over 80 pst. have been placed in foster homes by all children away from home. The foster homes will be the safe environment, the safe new homes, for the children and the young people who need help from us as a society. The public has a high responsibility to ensure that foster homes are of the necessary quality and provide basic safety, stability, care and, in particular, development, which the child needs. Foster homes are an action that has increased significantly. Only from 2004 has the use of foster homes increased by 33 pst. Thus, there is a strong growth in the use of foster homes that has led to some challenges in foster homes. This has been something that opposition politicians have been concerned about, and I note that the majority and everyone in this room are also concerned about the challenges we see in foster homes. We know a lot about the challenges we have. It concerns the recruitment of foster parents, the good investigation of the child before placement, the good follow-up and guidance of foster parents and, in particular, the financial environment of foster parents. These are essential aspects for recruiting foster parents and preventing accidental fractures, so that the child has to move. We need approx. 1 000 new foster homes per year, and Bufetat is targeted at recruiting foster homes in environments that are underrepresented today. This is largely the case in minority families. We also want to stimulate municipalities to place more children in foster homes who are in the child's family and on close networks, and the directorate has now received more assignments from us and through the year's letter of assignment, so I hope that this will become an even greater focus. The NRK Focus Programme that was launched this winter showed that we have a challenge with good follow-up and good guidance for foster parents, because it is crucial if we are to succeed in that area. Those who choose to become foster parents undertake a demanding task on behalf of the public. Then the least we can do for those foster parents is to follow them up and give them the guidance and help they need. Foetal parents must be able to feel safe in their role, so that their motivation is strengthened and the risk of new abortions is reduced. In this area, both municipal and state child protection have responsibilities. The responsibility of the State is to provide guidance on whether to be a foster parent, while the responsibility of the municipality is to provide guidance on how to care for individual children. The letter of assignment that the directorate has received asks for the provision of knowledge-based group guidance for all municipal foster homes to be developed, and that is set at 10 million. kr for that work. Then we have also launched a survey of the financial environment of foster parents. This is a survey that is very important for us to look at both the municipally reinforced foster homes and the state foster homes. In the near future, the Directorate will deliver that monitoring to the Department, and that evaluation will be an important part of the work we are going to do. Proposals are also concerned with the association and contact of foetuses with the biological family. It is therefore gratifying that this government has strengthened its efforts to follow up biological parents by 6.9 million. kr in the revised national budget. It may also be possible for the representative of Aasrud to be involved when she reads the revised national budget. From the New Year, the Child Protection Act clarified that the child protection service has a continuous and comprehensive responsibility for the follow-up of the child after taking care of the child. There is also something that we focus on, and not least the fact that the child has the right to associate with his siblings. I am pleased that the majority of the committee now wants a big message. I will start that work, and of course, in the message, we will pay great attention to involving stakeholders, such as Norwegian Foster Home Association, KS and NOBO – Norwegian Children’s Protection Agency – and not least the foster children themselves. It is important to listen to the foster children, who have experience in this, and as everyone knows, the Change Factory has had a great impact on Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013, which we dealt with last year. The foster children will also be included in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2900	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2903	In this debate, the parties to the government stated that in the election between a NOU and a big message, a big message is chosen, because it is then faster to come up with proposals. You can't have a NOU, because it takes so long, because you have to wait until it's done. It must mean that the Council of State has now actually announced that there is not a single proposal in this field from the Council of State before the notification is made. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2910	I was in the same committee as the representative Grande for four years, and when the opposition made proposals, we were constantly told that there was a sample set down, and that we were waiting for a proposition. As the Council of State, I am impatient on behalf of these children, and I can assure the representative that we will do a lot of things before that big message is in place. The Storing Communication will help bring together all the knowledge we have, but at the same time we will have to take more steps to give foster children the help they need, and to give foster parents the follow-up they need at all times. We have started this work with: We're strengthening the control system for foster children by 10 million. kr more than the Stoltenberg II government did for 2014. We've also added 6.9 million. kr to follow up the biological parents, which is an important measure, for the children in foster homes, are also concerned about their parents. It is therefore important – as the proposers also point to – that biological parents be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2921	During the examination of this matter just one year and a day ago, the then representative Solvency Horne presented 32 proposals for changes in child protection and foster home care. Does the Council of State now have a rapid plan for their implementation, which in that case she will share with the Storting, since she is now the Council of State, and at the time as a representative of the Progress Party, is so impatient and unable to postpone the matter with a NOW? When are the suggestions coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2928	Everyone in this room knows that if we put down a sample that's going to create a NOW, it'll take time. It is important to quickly put in place a big message that is specific to the challenges we know within foster home care. That is why I look forward to making a big message about this, in close contact with the relevant actors. At the same time, this government wants to strengthen child protection. We have done so in the 2014 budget, and it will also be prioritised in the 2015 budget. We have also prioritised the protection of children in the revised national budget, which will be adopted in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2935	I have two questions to the councillor Horne: First, she answered the question in the reply from the representative of the Grande, that there are many proposals pending a big message. Is there any difference between submitting proposals in the foster home field, compared to a NOU? If you can do that when you're going to have a big message, why do you have to wait when it's a NOU? That's the one question. The second is about the small invitation that the Council of State made in their statement, that they have invested 6.9 million. kr in the revised national budget: can the Council confirm that these are fresh funds for the field of child protection, or are there re-priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2946	That's good questions. If the representative remembers, she will remember that the opposition in the previous four years made a lot of proposals, but we were told that there was going to be a proposition and that there was going to be a big deal. This government is able to do two things at once: we are going to be able to make a big message by 2015, while at the same time strengthening our response to the challenges that we already know are in the foster home field. We know that we have challenges in recruitment. We know that we have some unforeseen moves. We know that it's important that the children who grow up in foster homes also get to be close to their relatives and with their siblings. These are instructions we've given to the directorate that they're going to work with. In the second proposal, the government has strengthened the budget and 6.9 million. The revised national budget, to which the representative Aasrud refers, is a redeployment of funds for important measures to follow up on biological parents. There were important measures that I wanted to highlight, and that we know that foster home children are concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2959	The Council of State explains what measures it intends to take now, but it is nevertheless necessary to provide a comprehensive report. Is there any of the measures that the Council of State says she's going to implement now, which can't be implemented if you're going to have a NOW?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2966	We work all the time – continuously – to improve child protection. We did that when we strengthened the budget we had a month to present, and where we strengthened child protection by several tens of millions of dollars more than what the Stoltenberg II government did. We have also strengthened child protection in the revised national budget. I can't forge what's going on in the budget in 2015, but what's important is that we also look at follow-up and structure, and we are now waiting for some reports from Bufdir, which are going to be an important basis for future work. I also have a government platform from which I work, and if the representative sits down and reads it, she will see that there are many good suggestions there, which she will recognize when they arrive at Stortinget in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2977	As a follow-up to my first question, on which the Council of State has been challenged, I would just like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State says that she will work on matters on an ongoing basis, even if you are working on a big message. Something else is not the case when it comes to a NOW. You can constantly work on things and promote them for Stortinget, even if you work in parallel with a NOU. This is contrary to what has been said earlier in this debate by the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party, where they have said that a NOU will put the whole work on hold. This has led to the argument collapsing in the debate. However, what would have been the advantage of a NOU, in parallel to having worked continuously with suggestions, is that you get the knowledge that the whole field is so busy with. I don't understand why the Council of State is so afraid to collect that knowledge. Is it because she is afraid that that knowledge will actually meet her right in the flint, because it will dispute some of the political ideology she stands for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2988	The President is somewhat uncertain as to whether the 'flute' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2992	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e2997	I record that the representative is very concerned and impatient. I wish he had also been 8-9 months ago when it comes to this particular field. You can do two things at once: you can both make a big message and make suggestions at the same time. We know that a NOW takes a long time, and if we're going to make a NOW, there's got to be a lot of investigations. Several investigations and surveys come to our table during this year, and they are going to be an important foundation. The challenges that proposers address in this Document 8 proposal are known challenges. There are also known solutions to those challenges, and there are things that we have to get back to in the budget. At the same time, a concrete monitoring message is an important tool, which we will continue to work with in the future, in order to improve both the conditions of foster families and foster care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3008	The cord shift is over. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is given the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3013	In view of what the Council of State said, that she is going to draw foster home children into the process, we choose to make proposal No. 3, from SV, on to a transmission proposal. Then we'll follow closely if that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3020	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has made the proposal he referred to, about a transmission proposal. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3025	It was with great interest that I heard the Left's reason why they want a big message and a NOU, when they could actually risk having a majority for their distinguished proposal, which we support – and also several others here in the Chamber – and which the Left and Christian People's Party have also said they have gone into partnership about. I think it might be a little special that one chooses to promote a proposal that is very good, that the trade unions think is right, and that left thought when they made the proposal – and they had checked with both the Foster Home Association, FO and researchers like Elisabeth Backe-Hansen – and then moved on the uphill side. One might think that the environments with which they had checked had as much impatience as the representatives of the government parties and the representatives of the Workers' Party. We are impatient, but we must choose to believe in those who sit with the expertise. One would think that the world would stop if we started with a NOU. It's not like that. The world goes on, as the Council of State has said. There will be proposals that a NOU will address – that is what is happening. What's different is that with a NOU, we had anchored this professionally and in a good research environment, where we could have investigated what we lacked knowledge about. We had anchored it professionally, so that we could move on with it politically. That's really the difference between a NOU and a big message. When foster care itself thinks that you can spend time on this, I think we politicians should respect it. When we ask for advice and ask people to consult, it is particularly important to weaken their own proposals, as the Left now does. I would like to believe that those who were the suppliers of the proposal – and who sent me an e-mail last night that they were behind a proposal on a NOU – hoped and believed that the Left was a serious party and suggested something because they meant something about it. It's not like that, and I think it's sad. When the Left now chooses to vote with the Christian People's Party, we want, of course, to support the proposal for a message. We want that -- it's better than nothing. We want a review. It's going to happen now. We also support the importance of bringing forward the proposal that SV has now turned into a transmission proposal. But again, it's a little bit of a game for the gallery to make suggestions in this room that you really don't believe in yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3038	It's a little strange to follow another good debate on a very good topic, where you have a common intention – and look at how it's looked. But let's hold on to the fact that the intention is good. We want a good foster home arrangement. We want it in place as soon as possible. It's important. The intense eagerness of a NOU or not become a bit parochial. I am happy to go through old hearings this summer to look at what was said, and how the government parties in the last period have obviously – of course – followed up everything that was said in the hearings of professionals. That's what the argument is here. So, regardless of political considerations, one has to do it. It could be a nice reading. It is possible that I will come back with a summary for the autumn. What is the whole point, and which is the difference between a big message and a NOU – on which the rapporteur was involved – is that extensive changes will have to wait until the NOU is ready and there is a big message. That's what was said. Small changes and the things that are very clear and that we agree on, have already been mentioned by the Council of State. Something has already been done, but the extensive changes have to wait for the NOU to complete and a big message has arrived, i.e. in 2018 — perhaps in 2019. This can now be done during 2015 in a big message. That's good for the foster home children. We're busy with that. We are very pleased that the Left has been constructive in this work. When they learned that there is already a lot of professional background – investigations that you can use in the wholesale message – they use it so that this will be quickly put into place. I have to say that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has been constructive when he says: Let's get this big message, let's get this in place, so one can assess whether there are any things that need to be investigated in the future. I think that's a constructive input. Then one gets at least one done that one can, now. It is good that proposal No. 3, from SV, has been converted into a transmission proposal. This means that both the Right Party and the Advance Party support its transmission. Speaking of which, we're going to go with it. We're already doing that exact piece of work. It has not been long since the Committee met the Change Factory and children who have been in this system. They could tell us a lot of experiences from there that are valuable when we're going to work on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3053	The last speaker on the pulpit is trying to make a point that this is supposed to be just a game, that it doesn't matter whether it's a NOU or a message, and that we're just looking to make messy in the hurry. What's the whole point of a NOU is that we have a wish – which we share with all those who have spoken on the matter as hearing bodies – and need more facts, that we get to investigate the field, so that political action can be done on a very good basis. Had we agreed that all the work else in the government or from the Stortinget side of this field would stop pending the completion of this NOU, we would of course not have been in favour of a NOU either. Then we would probably have wanted to promote alternative proposals. It is precisely certain that an investigation work can be carried out in parallel with a large-scale work and many proposals in Parliament, that there is a need to acquire knowledge in parallel with this work. That's why we have the vision we have in this case. When it was so stubbornly claimed by the representatives of the Right Party and the Advance Party that all the work will stop if you go in favour of a NOU, it is good to hear that the Council of State has a different opinion and actually confirms that there is nothing wrong with making a large number of proposals for the Storting, whether you work with a NOU or with a big message. These are positive signals. I believe that what gathers us – across the parties – is a common desire for action. That's why I'm making Morten Stordalen's words my own: now's not the time to put things on hold, now's the time for action. And we'll certainly count the days until we see action from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3064	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3078	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3093	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3099	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3649	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3659	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3667	During the debate, Kari Henriksen put forward three proposals on behalf of the Labour Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch the planned concept selection studies for the Eastern and Western countries, with a view to establishing more prison sites in the light of the needs outlined in the 2013 Capability Plan of the Criminal Service.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘As soon as possible, the government will ask the Storting for a comprehensive plan to increase prison capacity in order to meet the needs for adequate capacity, necessary rehabilitation during settlement, and the preservation of female prisoners.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government asks the government to start work on building new prisons on Agder as soon as possible.’ SV has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3711	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Environment Party The Green proposals No. 2 and 3, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked not to award blocks in 23rd concession rounds as announced by the Environment Directorate and the Polar Institute in its hearing. A professional process is initiated to define the boundaries of the ice edges in the context of a management plan.’;» Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government requests the establishment of a tempo selection for the petroleum industry, which, in a broader perspective than the concession regime allows, shall make recommendations on Norwegian extraction rates based on environmental and climate, economic and employment considerations, the supply industry, local content requirements, the HMS and the cost development of Norwegian pedestal.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3742	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to stop the allocation of new blocks in the 23rd round of the Norwegian loop.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3775	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Anna Ljunggren on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, by Ola Elvestuen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Green Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government, through its influence in Statoil’s governing bodies, asks the Government to ensure that the company withdraws from all tar sand activities in Canada at Statoil’s first general meeting after this matter has been dealt with in the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: «The government asks the government to review all companies in which the State is a majority shareholder and to ensure that the company's activities and project portfolio are within the agreed climate objectives for a maximum of two degrees of heating compared to pre-industrial time.» The voting boards showed that 81 votes were cast against and 15 votes in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Socialist Left and the Greens. [[(The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. (Parliament adopted the resolution)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3803	President! I was supposed to vote for it. I wasn't fast enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3808	President! Take the vote one more time, there were more here... [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3813	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3825	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the climate profile of the different state companies in the management of the ownership notification and to clarify the needs for more stringent environmental and climate requirements.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will subsidize the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3859	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left turned into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government ensure that the experience and advice of the foetuses is well provided in the comprehensive report to be drawn up and that the foetuses are given their advice on any proposals that may be promoted.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the government without a vote of the facts – and considers it to be acceptable. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the children’s own experiences and advice are well presented in the public investigation to be prepared and that the foster children are given advice on any proposals that may be promoted’. The central party has announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 70 votes were cast against and 28 votes in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.55.16]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3889	President! The working party shall vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3894	Then we have to take the vote again. Here, then, the Central Party and the Workers' Party will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3906	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to launch a public investigation into foster care.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3947	In the case of cases No. 10 and 11 are the second time legal proceedings and relate to Acts 51 and 52. There are no proposals to comment on these matters. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-05.ana.ud2015e3961	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
