ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e35	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Mr. Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Mr. Tine Sundtoft and Mr. Anders Anundsen for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Eva Kristin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e42	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. In a short time, both the Council of State and representatives here travel from the Stortinget to Lima in Peru at a climate summit, and we are many who are excited about how the rise to Paris 2015 is going to be, about how the international community is willing to commit itself in the future. Also here in the country, commitments and climate are a discussion – and especially when we talk about government budgets. Governmental Council Sundtoft has received a lot of attention since the government's proposals for the government budget were presented, and she has received a lot of criticism for weak government penetration, and for the climate and environment being the big budget paper. A few weeks ago, on October 22, the Prime Minister was visiting here in the Questionnaire, and she got a number of questions about the climate and the environment. Even I took hold of the Prime Minister's own statements that it was not so easy for a climate and environment minister to get through to the government when there are so many in this government who are not concerned with the climate, and I asked about her responsibility. She replied that she, as head of the government, was “very concerned about everything we do in this government”. [[...]] It's nice and nice that a prime minister is concerned about what you do, but what I'm asking is: how is it really to be in a government where the prime minister actually confirms that the others don't care about what you're responsible for? What does the Minister for Climate and Environment think about the impact she has had on the government? Does the Council of State think it is entirely unproblematic that she has to come to the Storting in order to meet understanding and people who are concerned with the environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e53	I am glad that that question is being asked, because then we can once again inform about what this government is doing in the climate, and what we now get after the budget negotiations on the Stortinget with our cooperation parties, the Left and Christian People's Party. We presented the most offensive climate budget of the time, where there were many good climate action in many departments. When the Christian People's Party presented its alternative budget, Knut Arild Hareide said that on closer review it was not as bad in climate as it might seem initially. The debate after the state budget was presented was probably somewhat marked by the fact that many had decided in advance that this was not good enough. Then we knew that we had cooperation agreements with the Left and the Christian People's Party, which have clear expectations that this government will deliver well in the climate with them, and many of the individual proposals in the government's draft budget have also now become, through the agreement in the Storting, such that it contributes to lower emissions. The fact that we have now increased the return on the fund for climate, renewable energy and energy conversion means that Norwegian businesses have more instruments to participate in the green shift. We have presented the largest rail budget of the time. We're working on urban environmental agreements with the major municipalities. There will be more money for the reward scheme for public transport. We also get tax changes that stimulate more environmentally friendly cars. We thought it might be possible to wait until the review of the revised national budget, but after the negotiations in Stortinget we also do more for chargeable hybrids. I believe that we are doing well in the transition to the low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e62	I think it is nice that the Council of States mentions the cooperation agreement and the budgetary conciliation. I want to get into climate quotas, which we know are important to meet Norway's international climate commitments. In the agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, you have agreed to set the sum zero for the purchase of climate quotas for next year, so you're going to zero out. Today, today's Economy writes that the Council of State extends – I would call it – towards its own government and budgetary conciliation and believes this is not realistic budgeting. Her State Secretary is quoted as saying that it is not realistic to cut the entire amount, and that you have to come back to the Storting and ask for a supplementary grant. Then I really wonder what the Council of State thinks about the work her friends have done here at Stortinget, which creates a budgetary settlement that requires an additional allocation. So you now know, before the financial situation has been decided, that you have to raise more money. What does the Council of State think about this work? Is this good budgetary work? Is this something she'll recommend?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e69	It is not this Council of State's style either to extend towards its own government or to extend towards the Stortinget. I am concerned that we have a good debate about climate policy. I think that's what it takes to get an understanding of what we need to do in Norway to transform this society, and what we need to buy out climate quotas. Earlier – not least when the representative Hansen’s party put in government – the debate was too much influenced by the fact that we could buy our commitments and buy allowances outside. We enter into contracts in accordance with the mandates given by Stortinget. However, we know that payments for delivered allowances will be later than what has been taken into account in the preparation of the budget, but when we added it to the aging for 2014, and now we see 2015, we would just like to inform you that we might have to come back in 2015. I think it's an open and honest way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e76	It opens for follow-up questions – first Åsmund Aukrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e79	It is interesting to hear that the climate minister believes that her own budgeting is unrealistic, and that she already wants to notify that she is coming back to the Stortinget. My question is about the climate in the budget: we were waiting in excitement for what would come from the government, and the answer was discouraging. One hardly finds a person who is not a member of either the Right Party or the Advance Party, who believes that this is a good climate budget. Fortunately, part of the battles lost by the minister in the government is straightened out in the Grand Duchy of the Left and Christian People's Party. But the question is whether that's enough. Is that good enough what is in the budget? Cicero researcher Borgar Aamaas said yesterday's Newspaper that emissions can rise in 2014 and that the state budget does not mean that we are on track to achieve the objective of the climate agreement. My simple question to the climate minister is: Will the emissions go up or down with the budget that seems to be adopted next Monday?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e90	It's at least a fact that what we're now going to the Stortinget with is far better than what the red-green government had. These are many individual proposals, including in the budget agreement in Stortinget. It is difficult now to predict the overall impact on greenhouse gas emissions and when an emission reduction occurs, because it will also depend on economic development and what kind of temperatures and heating needs we will have in the years to come. But we now have a budget that goes in the right direction to bring down emissions in the transport sector. We deliver the largest rail budget of the time, we put in place urban environmental agreements, we give more to reward schemes, and we also give Norwegian industry more tools to be involved in the conversion to the low-carbon society. So we have a lot of suggestions that go in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e95	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e98	Despite Knut Arild Hareide's comments, many of us responded to the budget's lack of climate profile when it was presented in October – lack of action to implement a green shift, cut the forest effort and a general decline and lack of investment in a number of climate items, to mention something. My question is: does the Council of State believe that the budget has been given a much better climate profile after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e106	I referred to what Knut Arild Hareide said when the Christian People's Party presented its alternative budget, that there was no special investment in climate there because at a closer reading it was a good climate budget. We are very aware of the kind of cooperation agreement we have with the Left and Christian People's Party. We believe that we laid a good foundation with the state budget we presented, with many good individual proposals. Then we now look at the negotiations that there are many additions to the proposals that were already in the State budget. I think that this whole thing is good, we made a good start and have had constructive negotiations that four parties are now behind, and that we have a good climate policy in place that is moving in the right direction to convert Norway into a low-carbon society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e113	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e116	I have to go back to today's Business today about climate quotas. It was a startling look, in which the State Secretary says that the cut made in the budget agreement on climate quotas is unrealistic. It raises the question of whether the entire government is behind the budgetary agreement that has now been concluded. In contrast to what the Secretary of State says, the Storting has not dealt with the budgetary conciliation. It has been concluded between individual lots and the Stortinget will deal with the State budget on Monday. However, both government and enlargement are subject to a demand for realistic budgeting, and if the Ministry of the Environment considers that the requirement for realistic budgeting has not been met in this case, is it simply the question: Will the Council of State take initiative in the government to correct this kind of unrealistic budgeting before the Stortinget deals with the government budget for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e121	The purchase of climate allowances is relatively complicated, and it is important to clarify that in the Ministry we only conclude contracts that comply with the powers granted by the Stortinget. We never go beyond what Stortinge gives us in terms of authority. Then we see that the total allocation need for 2014 and 2015 can be something we need to get back to in 2015. It is therefore also stated in the Proposition, the 2014 budget, that we will assess the need for power in the light of the reduction in appropriations in 2014 and 2015. But let me make it clear: the Department never goes beyond what the Stortinge gives us the authority to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e126	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e129	On the issue of the impact of the budgetary conciliation: I think it is quite clear that the budgetary agreement, with the conversions that are, especially in the transport sector, will lead to reductions in emissions in Norway by 2020. Initially, we have the electric cars – competitive, as they are today – biofuels become competitive in relation to fossil fuels, biogas becomes competitive in relation to natural gas, as well as the improvements and reliefs related to rechargeable hybrid cars, which also make them competitive. This will have a significant impact by 2020. The Council of State has already pointed out that the budget was improved through the negotiations in Stortinget, and my question is: What part of the negotiating result is the Council of State most satisfied with and will have the greatest effect in terms of a better climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e136	When the Stortingen dealt with the budget for 2014, we were in exactly the same situation, the representative Elvesuen and I, and agreed that a good budget had become even better. We are very conscious of the cooperation agreement we have with the Left and Christian People's Party and believe that we laid a good foundation in the state budget we presented. Then we see that through the negotiations it's added to several individual items. I record that the cooperation parties have a little less patience in converting the car charges than what we launched in the budget, where we said we would get back into the revised national budget. Now you want to do something on chargeable hybrids. It is a signal, and I think we should also be happy that we agree that we must agree on the total car charges before it is submitted to Stortinget. I think we should be happy with the rounds that have been and that we now get a good climate budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e141	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e144	My question has a slightly less keel tone than the last one, because even if you can see different in the budget, there seems to be a very broad consensus now that it must be much sharper if we are to be able to achieve the Norwegian climate targets by 2020. Among other things, the Environment Directorate has produced a report that shows a significant deficit in its policies if we are to be able to measure, and a number of government representatives have said that tough, new measures need to be taken. The Prime Minister has said that it is very difficult to reach these goals, but it has several times, including the following: Here in Stortingen, do not confirm that the government's policy is to achieve the Norwegian targets of emission reductions, and that the government will extend the policy to the objectives, not to adapt the objectives of the policy. Can the Minister for Climate and Environment confirm that the government's policy is to achieve the Norwegian climate targets for 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e153	I do feel that the government did not exactly come to the covered table in climate policy. That's also why it was important for us to ask for a report on how far away we were from the 2020 targets. We received that report in March of this year, which then said that we are approx. 8 million tonnes beyond the 2020 target. Projection of adopted policies now, presented in the national budget, shows that the gap will be 6.5 million tonnes. We're working to achieve the 2020 targets, but we're working on a proper policy to transform this society. The fact that we have now proposed double tracks for the Oslo-Ski route is sensible policy, but whether it will come out in 2019 or 2021, we do not know today. So we're working to achieve the 2020 targets, but we're also busy putting in place the right policy to make the necessary transition, and right when it comes to it, the story will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e160	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e164	What characterises the Norwegian climate policy more than anything else is an extreme allergy to the numerical fixing of commitments. I don't know if you should clean the carpets in the storeroom, or what you have to do to get this away, but it's quite fabulous for months after months to listen to this debate, where this government, just like the previous government, turns like worms to let go of saying how much we should cut. The government has submitted a national budget that says emissions will increase by 2020. It's the only climate figure in the state budget. And then the Council of State repeats over and over that this year's budget is going to cut greenhouse gas emissions. Why in the world should we believe that, when the Council refuses to give a single fictitious, binding statement as to how large these cuts are to be, and when they are to be realistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e171	I said that you can also read in the national budget that when you make a projection of adopted policies, it is gaped by 2020 at 6.5 million tonnes. We haven't been that close to the 2020 target. We add up to a policy that gets the emissions down. But as I just said in my previous answer, when we propose double tracks on the Oslo-Ski route, we can't now attach numbers when it's going to turn on. When we increase the fund for climate, renewable energy and energy conversion, we do not know when it will produce results that we can quantify. It's complicated to figure out exactly what will happen to emissions, and just when it will come. But we now have a lot of concrete policies to bring about that change, much more than it has been in the past. I also think that now is a completely different understanding in society because we have to change the way we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e180	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e183	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. Many experience isolation and exclusion from social life — most of us take for granted. They rarely get away from home. It can be painful when you don't get to visit friends and family or participate in the organization, and what others describe as one of the absolute heaviest, is the feeling of failure in the parenting role because they can't follow up their own children. These are people who, because of their disability, depend entirely on an adapted transport system in order to live a normal and good life. These are people like us all, but who unfortunately have such a serious disability that neither their own car nor the usual collective offer can be used to get to the store, to the doctor, to the dentist or to parents' meetings. We're talking about a limited user group in size, but it's people who really need and want to be part of the community that we all take as a matter of course. It's about taking seriously and designing a policy based on the principle that all people have the same value. During a three-year period, trials have been carried out in three counties with an organised provision for people with disabilities with high needs. Participants from the test groups can tell you that they've got a new life. As one said, the first days of the new arrangement were going to get me over the jock! Think I can get involved in something that I now want to do. I've now got the feeling of living, not just being alive. Is it now time for the government to come forward with a proposal for a national regime that is similar across the country, which can provide a good transport system for all disabled people with high needs, and which gives them the opportunity to participate in society in the same way as all of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e194	I thank you for the question, and it is a very important topic that is being addressed. The mobility of citizens in a society is very important. Mobility is also important from a business perspective and in the way we organise our society. Being able to travel to and from work, to and from school, to and from health services when needed, or in leisure time, to cultural activities, or simply for social interaction with others, is important. There the government is working hard to make everyone in society feel better. So in our 2015 state budget, we have proposed growth in investments on the road, rail and collectively. Much of the job you do when you think about the collective offer is also about universal design, just so that not only disabled people can get around, but also people with different disabilities can use public transport. Universal design of collective nodes is therefore important. But then we know, as the representative also points out, that some of our fellow people have challenges that make them unable to use the bus – even with a universal design – and there has an organized transport system where they also get an offer and can get around. It's important. There are already systems that are seen as good in terms of work and patient travel. What's the question here, is how can you get mobility in your spare time, and there's a guy who's had this test scheme in three counties. It is now for evaluation. We have continued to contribute 11 million to the 2015 budget. to finance the three counties, precisely to ensure that no change in the offer is experienced by the users until the evaluation is completed, even if the project as such has been completed. So this will be a discussion we have to include the Storting, and in the budget for 2016, if one is to make a national arrangement instead. It has some consequences for how you think about public transport in general, which is today a municipal responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e207	I thank you for your answer. We are well known, as the Council of State also confirms, that an evaluation of the trials has been carried out in the three counties of Østfold, Møre and Romsdal and Nord-Trøndelag. What is conveyed to me, and to us, through, among other things. The blindfold is that there have been very many positive experiences from the trial scheme. Especially is it positive that users are aware of an increased sense of freedom, and it's not just about leisure, but about vital journeys that they have to make in order to be part of our society. And even though not everyone travels more often, as it's said, this opportunity still gives a new freedom, or as more people express it, life has a new dimension. Provided that this main impression can be confirmed through the evaluation: Will the Council of State work to ensure that a national regime can be put in place for all users with a high need for transport services from 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e216	I don't want to pre-conclusion, but I'm positive, because I know that the sense of freedom you have by knowing that you can transport yourself around when you want it – and not always have to sit and wait for others to come and pick you up – is important to people. Knowing that one can master one's own everyday life, even though one is not as mobile as many others, is important to people. Now we've also seen that there's been some feedback, but we haven't systematized it, and we're also going to take it in the evaluation, but some feedback that this seems to have been better or cheaper than what we predicted, is a good sign in that case. One has also seen that the different states have solved it in different ways, and that is also part of the evaluation. Some places have had a lot of connections by not necessarily getting taxis, but they like to get a minibus that picks you up – a kind of specialized public transport, and not individually – and these are also good signs that we take with us before we conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e223	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e226	I would also like to thank the Council of State for its positive attitude, for this is a matter of value. It's about people who finally get to know the freedom that it is that you can decide for yourself when you want to travel. If they're going to participate in activities, they can do it. If they have children who are active, they can follow them. As it has been said, although they have the opportunity to travel more, it is not necessarily so that they do, but one may know that it is one who rules his own life. It's important that we can facilitate. It's also not huge amounts of money this is about, so it's a positive right for these people. The blindfold is one of the organisations that has been active in making recordings. They have wanted it to be Nav who administers the scheme, instead of the county council – something that the council is considering. We need respect for the fact that the Council of State has to review the evaluation and work with it, but is it that Nav can manage the system, so that it becomes a more rights-based system, as you can see? And the Council of State will come up with the matter quickly, so that it can be decided, for example. already next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e237	Thank you for the question. It is natural that we look at this in the context of the 2016 budget. Then it is also natural to look at who should be responsible. But that very thing is one of the challenges, because today that kind of public transport, if you can call it that, is delegated to the county councils completely. Now, if we say that the state or Nav is going to be responsible for parts of it, it's also going to be a fundamental debate, which I think it's important for the Storting to take. I think there are also some states that will have strong opinions about what their assigned tasks are, and how one might change the cash flows there. It's very good intentions that are in the theme of the Christian People's Party, and I fully agree with the intentions, but organizationally we need to know what we're doing, so that we don't start pushing on many principles here, but we don't know about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e246	Ingvild Kjerkol – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e250	The question of the TT scheme is an important question, because it provides for everyone to participate, including in active life when you are done at work and have to participate with the family. The TT system that has been tested in a couple of states, I know well from among others. My home state, the Nord-Trøndelag. The user organisations have also reported that this works very well in the states where it has been tested. I hear the Council of State take a number of reservations that he will discuss this in principle and that it is today the county councils that are responsible for public transport and that this is an integrated offer, together with their other responsibilities. However, among other things: the treatment of the national transport plan was very clear to the Progress Party that they wanted a national scheme. They did not want the County Council to be responsible for this any longer. They wanted national guidelines and this to be lifted. When did the Progress Party really change its policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e261	I can stand here as a pure party politician and say what the Progress Party has gone to elections on, and what we mean, but now I represent a government where we have a government platform, and where we also have to deal with decisions in Stortinget, and I think it is the cleanst thing for everyone that I stand here as a government council – not as a party politician. But it is very good if, from now on, the Workers' Party gives me the power to implement progress party policy in all areas, without the Workers' Party having anything to say about it in Stortinget. I would like to take that signal in writing, too. However, the point here is that with regard to this type of public transport, all this has now been delegated to the states. There is nothing to prevent any state from giving this offer today. This is up to the state politicians to give priority to this. Now the discussion of whether to have it as a state responsibility is due to the failure of state politicians to prioritise it properly. Then all the parties present in this Chamber should check with their state politicians what work you have done in this area, as one feels that one has to take it up in the Storting to get a better order than the state politicians have chosen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e270	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e273	I am very pleased that the attempts that were made have given positive feedback. We have heard – through the hearings of the Transport Committee – how life has been changed for many because they have been given the opportunity for the type of leisure trips provided by the TT system. That's good to hear. I see that there are slightly different feedbacks from the different states where there have been attempts. My question to the Council of State is this: would it not be reasonable to extend the pilot scheme to any more counties, so that there is greater empathy as to what experience is gained in the various counties, before we take the debate on who should be responsible, and how, if necessary, the scheme should be extended?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e280	It could have been an idea, but first I'll actually see if there's as much spread in the feedback as you require on this question. I'm not sure it is. If the feedback is quite unambiguous, but with different instruments around it, there is no point in testing one thing before you say yes or no further. Of course, if all the feedback cracks and is contradictory, it is possible that we should do what the representative addresses, but for me it is important that we have an overall approach to this. We have to make sure that as much as possible use of the general offer as possible. We do that through the universal design of platforms related to trams, buses, T-Bahns and the offer you have locally. We do that by making sure that you have better information about the offer that exists. That's what one of them does. by working with a national scheduler. And we do that by making sure that where the universal design of offers is not good enough, the TT system becomes more accurate for those who actually need it. Today it is a county responsibility. If that's not good enough, we should make it a national responsibility, and that's the evaluation we'll be doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e287	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e290	If you're really concerned that people with disabilities should be able to determine where they want to travel, you're removing, for example. do not support the car scheme for those who are not at work or at school, as this government has done. But I hope the Minister will continue to work on a national TT system for those who need door-to-door transport – because that is what we are talking about right now. A national system is needed for those who need door-to-door transport, and then an extended system of district booking routes, such as the KID system, public transport in the districts, is needed. I regret to note that the government has removed that piece of it, because it can cover the need for many of those who cannot manage to use the ordinary public transport but who do not need door-to-door transport. So there's a combination of an order route system and a national TT system we need. Will the Minister take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e299	Mixing the KID system into this becomes a little irrelevant, because the KID system could be very different, depending on what you applied for. There was an arrangement where one got an average of half a million kroner in support of each project, and where the county municipalities had to apply for money for each project. Our assessment is that there is a very high amount of bureaucracy in relation to each penny. Then it is better to have arrangements in which county councils are responsible, to receive more money, or to have a more specialised system, such as this. That's why we're working on the TT system. I record that all the parties in Stortinget now appear to be very champions of this. Nevertheless, it is only to record that the scheme has not been established under the previous government. That means that there is a new hope with today's government, and we follow up the initiatives that have come from the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party has addressed this in the Storting in interpellation debates as well. It shows a significant commitment from one of our collaboration parties, and I'm very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e306	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e309	My main question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Robbery policy affects many. It is difficult, it is contentious, and it creates a great debate. In many parts of the country, the grazing industry persists. In summer, it may have been especially in areas of Sogn and Fjordane and Oppland — parts of the country that are usually an important part of the grazing industry — one was in despair. It has gradually become such that in large areas of the country valuable grazing land can almost not be used because of predators. Such a level of conflict cannot continue in the years to come. The size has decided that the most important instrument for regulating the stocks of predators is licensing. The problem is that this license search has failed completely. Last winter only 30 pst was taken out. of the set quotas. In 2011, the parties at Stortinget agreed on the policy of predatory game. The center part is behind this equation. Paragraph 2.2.12 states that licence hunting ‘must be the main instrument’. A couple of weeks ago, the license hunt on the bear ended. The Ministry had authorised the withdrawal of a quota of nine bears in the autumn, but only two bears were killed at the end of the licence hunt. What will the Minister for the Environment do to get the rest of the licence quota on the bear?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e320	This government is very concerned about alleviating the conflicts in the field of predatory wildlife policy. I think we have to live with the fact that it will always be a conflict. It goes without saying that balancing grazing animals with predators would mean conflict. It is also about how that conflict is handled. We have embarked on a completely different dialogue with the regional predators than the previous government did. We take it once in a six-month period, go through the challenges you have, and follow up on what we give each other of these challenges. We are committed to getting a clearer zone management to mitigate the conflicts. I fully agree with the representative Arnstad that licensing should be the instrument we have. That is why we are now allowing more instruments within the scope of licensing, including: in the case of yours. Here is the request for experiments from Sogn and Fjordane. I've said that we'll look at more use of snowmobiles for the transport of bait and jersey booths, and also gain practical experience using artificial light on your ate. The question was about bear. The fact that we get a more effective licensing agreement, I think, is important in order to gain an increased understanding of what we are going to do in predatory game policy, and also to have good dialogue with regional predators, so that they feel that they have a real opportunity to mitigate these conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e334	In fact, the Council of State does not answer my question, because the failure of the licensing agreement is in itself a source of conflict – it increases the level of conflict. I'm not very concerned about you guys in this context, but I'm busy with the bear, because that license hunt ended two or three weeks ago. Then two out of nine bears were taken out, as the government has set as a quota. And my question is still: what will the Council of State do to get the rest of the licence quota for bear? For it is also stated in the robberies agreement that if the licensing agreement does not provide a satisfactory settlement, the environmental management has a responsibility to ensure that the remaining quota is withdrawn. So my question is still: what will the Council of State do to ensure that the rest of the licence quota is withdrawn, and what message will the environmental management get to follow up on their responsibilities after the robberies deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e341	In line with what I answered the previous questions, the environmental management will engage in dialogue with the regional predatory game subject in order to get something done with the licensing agreement. We have not overestimated the regional predators in this. It is important that regional predators are also responsible for following this up with environmental management. I'm concerned that we get the license agreement to happen in a proper way so that we mitigate the conflicts, because it's when we don't get a licence agreement that we have unnecessary major conflicts in predatory game policy. So I'll take it up with the environmental management.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e346	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e349	The problem is that when the license agreement fails, as we have seen, the government has chosen to take out many animals – both you and the bear – before the grazing season begins. This is a challenge, because this is the middle of the breeding season, and now the Environment Directorate is using controversial hunting methods such as helicopter hunting and hijacking. The center party realizes that many people react to it. This could have been avoided if, during the autumn and winter, a more effective licence hunt was carried out, as has been pointed out in the past. But why won't the government contribute to the quota being taken out during the licence hunt, so that you get rid of these a little brutal methods of hijacking and helicopter hunting in the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e356	The government is committed to using the licence trap as the right way to extract these predators. I fully agree that hiouting brings up very large conflicts in this and reduces the understanding that some predators are to be taken out into areas where the grazing animals have their priority. It's precisely because we're now also starting new attempts to get more effective licensing, that we're not going to review decisions passed by regional predators, and that we have the close dialogue with the denominators and also with the environmental management, so that this happens in the most correct and effective way possible, so that we get to grips with the conflicts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e361	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e364	A few weeks ago, several people from Stortinget visited the grazing industry at a seminar and were also in a debate. I can confirm a lot of the descriptions that the representative Arnstad comes up with regarding the challenges the industry is experiencing. We also received some feedback from the industry that it is actually believed that the robberies agreement does not work after the intention, and perhaps especially the two-part objective. Now we know that in a while we will get a case for the Storting both about the wolf zone and about the stock target on the wolf. What I'm wondering is whether the Council of States can say a little about, is whether there are other parts of the predatory game policy she sees ourselves that we also need to discuss in that context, or we're just going to limit it to discussing wolves, herds and wolvesone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e371	The President will note that all speeches must be addressed via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e374	Now the Stortingen in May had to deal with this matter after a representative proposal from the Central Party, where we experienced that the Stortingen confirmed again important areas of predatory game policy. But I replied to Stortinget, which I am now following up, that we will use new tools to get more effective licensing. I have also met many grazing users this autumn. Luckily, what I am experiencing is quite good now, is that neither the grazing user is involved in a discussion about whether we should have predators or not. Then I think we have also come a little further in this debate, where we need to get a clearer zone management and more effective licensing agreement, and then we come to the Stortingen on the matter of stockpiles for wolves and wolvesone. Then the Storting will see in that context whether there is a need to do more in predatory policy. We follow up on what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e381	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e384	Damage to livestock in priority grazing areas is often associated with the rapid movement of predatory game over large areas. As a result, predatory game can wander into so-called priority pastures in a short time. When this happens during the grazing season, there is little help in the fact that the State's nature oversight in advance has taken out animals that were in an area. The Council of State has said in the past that she will look at the boundaries of what is considered priority pastures. My question is: has the Council of State carried out such a review and concluded, and, on the basis of this, will it promote effective measures in the agreement with the rapprochement, in order to take out animals constituting a potential for damage?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e394	It is a challenge that predators know neither borders nor borders. When we say that we want a clearer zone management, we have a challenge with animals that go into areas where they strictly have nothing to do. We now have a dialogue with regional predators to look at zone management, and where they may also need to correct their zones, across what we have today. We're not in the process of that review, but we're in the process of doing that. It is precisely through clearer zone management and more effective licensing that we can mitigate the conflicts in an area where we always want to have conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e401	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e404	It is good that the representative Hansson gets the floor for me, so it is not just ladies asking about hunting. When we are in the predatory settlement, it leads, I believe, to a reduced level of conflict in this area, because one was able to achieve a broad consensus in the Stortinget. But in that predatory settlement, it's also a big challenge to develop knowledge of hunting and hunting culture in the context of the licensing process that is going to be, because it's totally wrong, what we're doing in terms of hijacking, helicopter hunting, etc. But the centre party obviously lives in the error that introducing a license hunt on the bear is going to be an effective hunt in one year. It won't. You have to learn it, you have to develop a culture for it, you have to have knowledge of it. That is why it was said in the predatory agreement that money should be spent on it and on the voluntary organisations in this field. Will the Council of State follow up on that too?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e411	Yes, the Council of State will follow it up in this area as well. I have already followed it up. We are in close dialogue with the Hunter and Fisher League, because here you also see what it is like in the different states. If you have a good hunting culture — where you have competence and share competences — your licensing will be more effective. The IJF is also interested in helping to disseminate that knowledge to other parts of the country. I have asked myself to be allowed to attend a motivational evening to meet hunters. Here one sees it again: if this is done correctly, the legitimacy of licensing is increased and some of the conflicts that have been dampened. I hope that, too, gets rid of some of the illegal pursuit of our predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e416	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e419	Through this great interest in hunting some of the most beautiful animals in Norwegian nature, the impression is repeatedly confirmed that the predatory game problem is not only large, but that it is increasing. Can the Council of State clarify whether damage to domestic animals from predators has changed over, let's say, the last five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e426	I don't have statistics from the last five-year period now, but I know at least based on what we have of numbers for the current year, that the damage to grazing animals has gone down somewhat. I also think that we were out in front of the grazing season and took out some predators this year, have been involved. But once again, I'm concerned that sometimes the debate gets much bigger than it should be. The litter has set its targets for predators. We know that we're in line with what we're going to do for wolves, we're in front of bears and gaupe, and we're in front of you. Therefore, it is gratifying when a person has met with grazing users that they are not concerned with getting rid of predators, but that this is handled wisely by balancing both grazing animals and predators in Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e435	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e438	My question also goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Next week, UN climate negotiations in Lima, so-called COP 20, will begin, and Norway has an important role to play in the negotiations. We are at the heart of the forest effort – to preserve the rainforest internationally. In the budgetary agreement, the Council of State is now also receiving a doubling of Norway’s contribution to the green fund, to 400 million. kr every year. Norway often plays a central role in the implementation of the negotiations, which we hope can also be done in Lima. But so important is what happens after Lima, because now climate negotiations are a process from below and up, in which the different countries report their commitments before the Paris Summit, and the sum of these commitments must then be large enough to reach the 2°C target by 2050. In the first quarter of 2015, Norway shall present its climate commitments by 2030, and they must be at least 40 pst. It's 15 years to 2030. If we see 15 years back and up to today, it's not reduced anything. Over the next 15 years, we're going to reduce our emissions by a minimum of 40 pst. This requires extensive work. Then my question is: how does the Council of State see that this work to be organised in order to achieve our national climate targets by 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e453	As we have just announced since the negotiations in Warsaw a year ago, and as we promised there, we say that we will deliver our so-called indicative emission targets for 2030 during the first quarter of 2015. The government is now working on what should be the 2030 target. There, the Gap report we received from the Environment Directorate in March has been useful, but not least the low-emission report we received in October, which shows how it is possible to get to the low-emission society and where it is right to do things first. So we're working on the professional basis of the government now and have said that we're going to the Stortinget in a suitable way. And that's exactly the exercise that every country has: to come up with its emission targets. That's the difference between the Kyoto agreement, which was very ambitious for 10 pst. of the world’s emissions, and the agreement we hope to establish in Paris next year, where all countries have to contribute — some more than others. We have tradition of taking our share of responsibility for it, but our level of ambition will also depend on what kind of flexible mechanisms we will get in an international agreement. We need to find the right balance between what we're going to do at home and what we're going to get more for in terms of the global climate challenge by also doing things outside the country's borders. We have not yet concluded that in the government, therefore I cannot give the representative any more precise answer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e466	There's no conflict between what we're going to do at home and what ambitions we're going to have. Of course, Norway should have great ambitions internationally, but we should also cut at home, and those cuts must be at least 40 pst. That's another 15 years. To achieve this, the major changes to each year in these 15 years – if at all we are to have the opportunity to reach a 2 degree target internationally. Then you have to have concrete plans. And then my question is: will the Storting get presented with sectoral plans with concrete reduction targets and concrete means of achieving these reduction targets?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e474	As long as the government hasn't concluded, and we're in the process, I can't really promise right now what this will look like. But it is quite right, as the representative of Elvesuen says, that we need to get into the sector and see how much we can take in, for example. transport – we will take more than 40 pst. where to do less on construction or more on industry? That's just the distribution we have to look at, and also look at what's inside the allowance system, and what's outside the allowance system. But we need to change to reduce emissions in Norway. That is why I am very pleased with the change in the debate we now have, that we cannot buy free of this obligation by buying allowances out. It's going to be to find a proper balance between what we're going to do and what we're going to get the most back for by contributing, because the climate challenge is, after all, global.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e481	It opens for follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e484	I shall be even more specific than Mr Elvesuen. I have been pleased to note that the Council of State, together with the Left, has given a green tax shift and put market forces into use – an important and decisive measure to achieve the climate target. The last time in DN 30 October is the Minister quoted: «Contamination shall be more expensive and eco-friendly choices shall be made.» I therefore take the view that the Minister can confirm that the draft budget to the Government was an accident at work. Not only was the proposal chemically free of a green tax regime, it went monthly in the wrong direction. I also expect the Minister to confirm that she and the government in the 2016 budget will reinforce the start of a necessary green tax shift, as represented by the 2015 budgetary agreement with the Left and the Christian People's Party, and that the Minister can also come up with his assessments of what green taxes he thinks are the best and most targeted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e494	I fully agree with Mr Breivik that we need a tax system that costs pollution and pays off making environmentally friendly choices. Now we've put down a green tax commission that's just going to have a proper review of this, so it makes sense to see what they're going to do before the Council of State concludes in that area. Then I just got to note that the cooperation parties were somewhat more impatient than what we were when reviewing the car charges, which we had announced would happen in the revised version. But that's the kind of change in taxes and charges we have to make to get the necessary green shift, which is also related to our 2030 emission targets, which we will report during the first quarter of next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e501	Åsmund Aukrust – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e504	We are looking forward to the matter coming to Stortinget, and the Council of State concludes and says what is the government's proposal for the 2030 climate objectives. It starts to be urgent if the Storing is to be included in a proper way. Other countries are starting to meet their objectives, and Norway should not be the last to go. The minister says the government has not concluded. But in May of this year she said, ‘We have supported the ambitious objectives of the EU. It would then not be appropriate to be less ambitious than the EU.’ Then we have heard later that the Council of State could no longer cope with the same thing, she says there are major differences between Norway and the EU. That is true, but what has changed since May, when the Council of State promised Norway to be as ambitious as the EU, i.e. 40 p.m., and up to now, after the EU has adopted what they think, as she no longer manages to say the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e516	Nothing has changed since May – what I said then and what I say now. Being as ambitious as the EU is not the same thing as saying that we add up to exactly the same percentage as the EU. It is more ambitious to convert one country that is already based on hydropower and renewable energy than an EU how many countries are based on coal. The EU can also allocate its commitments among EU countries. So I stand for the same thing today as I said then. The shade lies in being equally ambitious. But when someone wanted to push me to say that it means 40 pst, I say that we won't say that until we've had a proper professional review of where it makes sense to put our level on the quota system, outside the quota system, and see what we can do with flexible mechanisms so that we can help other countries maybe do more, which means more to the world's climate challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e521	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e524	It goes against exciting and decisive international climate negotiations in months to come, and the first stop is Lima for us in 14 days. The Christian People's Party has clear expectations that Norway, too, is still playing an active driving role in achieving ambitious measures to achieve set climate targets, and of course we agree with the Council of State. My question is: Is the Council of State optimistic about what it is possible to achieve in Lima for a good climate agreement in Paris in 2016?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e533	This Council of States is fundamentally optimistic and believes that changes can be made. What we have seen that the EU has come in the harvest, but not least what the United States and China have launched from emissions obligations, makes it possible for a person to have a different optimistic base when one comes to Lima, than what one probably had in Copenhagen in 2010, where I was not present. I also believe that what we are now doing with the funding of the green funds, where the poorest countries feel that the richest countries are now setting up with climate finance and will really contribute, and what Norway is doing in the climate and forestry field and is following up with new countries and standing by it until 2020 – all this is related and making one believe that it will change. What I also feel is that some countries that sit around the table and do not want to make their commitments in bilateral talks confirm, of course, that we need to reduce our emissions because we know about the body that we have to do something in our country too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e538	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e542	Towards Lima, Norway now distinguishes itself by being the country with the third highest greenhouse gas emissions per capita in Europe. Russia and one of the Baltic states -- I don't remember which -- are worse, the rest is better. Then Norway is a country that has contributed to the UN Climate Fund – in which we ourselves sit on the board and have been with and established – at a much lower level than many other countries have. The Fund's committed ambition from Copenhagen was about 100 B.C.E. dollar, Norway has spent a few hundred million dollars. The Green Party has proposed that Norway provide equivalent to 1 pst. of GNI, 30 bn kr, to the fund, which will be a real effort. The question is: is the government going to consider going to Lima with a significant escalation of the Norwegian contribution to the UN Climate Change Fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e549	Norway enjoys recognition beyond its borders of the way we have set ourselves by having a climate and forest improvement of the magnitude we have, for what we do in Africa through Norfund, and for being active in the negotiations and also working out an international price for emissions through a carbon tax. Now, one after the budget negotiations in Stortinget has received a different amount we can also report in Lima, but other countries see the total package Norway has had for several years, and know that Norway is a country to count on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e554	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e557	My question is to the Minister of Justice. Terrorism is among the greatest threats in modern society. We had that painful experience in Norway on July 22, 2011, and by now this summer it came closer to us. On Friday afternoon, we were informed by the Minister of Justice that he would bring in the armed forces, closer to certain armed forces of all intervention personnel, with weapons approval in daily service, for the first time in four weeks, but what can quickly last indefinitely. We have an unarmed police in Norway. SV supports it and thinks it would be wrong with a general weapon. We believe it is not documented that it makes Norway safer, but that on the contrary it can lead to both more weapons and more situations with bullets. But we also have a flexible code that made it possible to quickly implement arms when the Minister of Justice thought it was necessary. I still believe that there is reason to ask questions about this matter. Firstly, the threat of terrorism is diffuse, based on the general global call for violence against uniformed officials. Behind is a group that we can unfortunately fear will be a threat for some time. Norway is going to join the armed struggle against them, which will lead to an increased threat rather than a reduced threat to us. We must fear that it can last. The decision came Friday afternoon, but a few weeks ago there was a meeting in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee there, I was also, where we were well informed about the terrorist threat, which was gradually public, and we have good reason to expect that the measures from there had been assessed for some time. So my question to the Minister of Justice is: can the Minister of Justice guarantee that what we see now will not slip into a lasting, general armament of the Norwegian police, and will he, if it is appropriate to extend it in four weeks, come to Stortinget in an appropriate way – a settlement or a matter – and make sure that the Stortinget gets its say, and that there will be an open debate on the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e570	I have always been very clear that it is important now not to confuse the question of weapons in a concrete situation based on a threat assessment that is quite serious, especially for those officials who are directly targeted as a potential target group to be affected by terrorism with quite simple instruments. That's what distinguishes this assessment from PST from many other assessments, where one is highly targeted, it can be attacked by very simple means. It also means that many police are insecure in the job situation they are currently in. This is why the Police Directorate has had a very, very thorough work over time to assess the nature of risk reduction measures to be implemented to ensure both the safety of police officers and the speed with which to respond. This is not an attempt at a snitching of the permanent armaments of the Norwegian police. There's a big political discussion about what kind of police we're going to have in the future. We have recently had a weapons directive and proposals for changes to the weapons directive out at the hearing. That consultation period was recently over, and we need a proper review of the hearing replies. Then it is also natural that one involves Stortinget in a tidy way. This is a political discussion, and I am aware that there are also announced representative proposals relating to the issue of general arms. I think it's important to remember that when it comes to the armaments of the police, based on the clear professional assessment they've made in this particular situation, based on the threat picture that's now in the background, you have to be quite daunting if you think that a political one should be able to review that assessment. In the case of these four weeks, we will come back to what the situation is at the time before a decision is taken on whether or not to extend consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e579	It is easy to understand that many policemen can feel insecure about this threat, just like others who are uniform, and – I have to add – other groups that are identified as possible goals, even if it is a general global call. Professional recommendations of this type should have a high degree of weight in general. I would also like to say that it is good that the Minister of Justice says that it is not a sneaking in, but he did not answer my two questions anyway. The first question was whether he can guarantee that it will not slip into a permanent situation, because we may well quickly come into a situation where the threat assessment will take a very long time. I want to make it clear to the right that this will rise at some point. Then he said he should have a tidy treatment in Stortinget. On Friday there was a brief call and then a message. So it's interesting to know: is there the kind of neat round with the Big Thing he sees for himself, or will he do as I ask him, simply come to the hall in an appropriate way and let the Big Thing express his opinion here in the hall as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e588	The Friday meeting was more an offer of information about an action that will be implemented, and is not part of any formal dialogue or follow-up to Stortinget. It was an offer to give the possibility of insight into what was behind the decision, which will become visible to many in a very short time. There is a big discussion in Norway about armaments, and I think it was neat to give it the information. But when I'm talking about involving the Storting, one of course has to involve the Storting in the ordinary way. So it's like today there's no warrant to keep weapons for a very long time. That is also one of the reasons why we did this consent for a limited period of time. Then we have to see how we're going to follow this on, but it's not the government's intention in any way to use this as a situation that makes it slip into a permanent armament of the Norwegian police. It's going to be the subject of a regular, open political discussion, which I'm absolutely convinced that SV will engage strongly in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e595	It opens for follow-up questions – first Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e598	The minister does not answer the question, whether he can guarantee that this does not slip into what we can call a permanent temporary weapon. This is a very serious step to take. When one can see the armed police in Overhalla, in Bømlo, in Senja, in Nesna, etc., it is quite serious step one has taken. What's special about the foundation is that it's not a concrete, time-limited, temporary threat, but it's a general, global, diffuse, non-time-limited threat that's the foundation. With such a justification, how can the Minister base himself on temporary arms?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e603	In these questions, it is difficult to see into the glass sphere and find fascination. Thus, there is an assessment by the PST that underpins the measures proposed by the police, and not only the armed use of the Norwegian police has been proposed by the police, but a number of other risk mitigation measures have been implemented as well. The threat assessments of the PST also make it clear that risk mitigation measures could help to reduce the risk. I hope we have a common understanding of where we want to be in the future in relation to the threat picture. We want to get it as low as possible. But I cannot guarantee what the threat picture will be like in a week or in three months or eight months – almost the representative must have respect for it. There we have professional bodies that make those assessments. The PST provides a basis for decision-making both for the police and for political management, and then we have to deal with it when we have to choose which actions to take. That's why we have the situation we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e610	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e614	I have understood that the Minister of Justice is busy with professional assessments when it comes to general arms. Then I am not thinking first and foremost about the specific threat situation that we are in now, but, among other things, about. in the hearing note with regulatory changes, which adds the districts themselves to decide whether they will have general arms in their district. Once one has followed the debate over time, one knows that the Joint League of Police, which has a decision on general armaments, also has a large minority who are opposed. They had two major membership studies, both before and after July 22, where there was a large majority against. Among the police officers, there is also a large majority against, and in the Norwegian Police Team, there is one against general armaments. My question is: What kind of professional environment is it that Anundsen has listened to when he says he's too general a weapon?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e623	Now we've just had the gun instructions out at the hearing. It's been a broad hearing. This is not a question that is black and white; it is not easy to say that one is absolutely right, while the other is completely wrong. Here, there's a lot of different dilemmas that you have to take into account. Therefore, the government is now going through the hearing notes we have received to see what kind of input has come to that hearing. It will also be an important part of the basis on which the government will ultimately take its decision. In these hearing replies, there is some dispersal in relation to the benefits and disadvantages of armed use by the police. What the government has put out for consultation is not a proposal to arm the Norwegian police. It is a proposal to make the system different, so that the police themselves will assess the need for armaments in specific situations, lasting or for shorter or longer periods. Today the system is quite rigid, based on an old weapon instructions that need an upgrade, and that's what we've been doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e630	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e633	First, I just want to say that I think the debate on general armaments is quite simple. It's about having a police officer with a clear civil character. There is a majority in this room who do not want general arms, so if the Minister of Justice is unsure about what to do in the matter, the best advice from the Christian People's Party is to put the matter away and spend time and effort on something he can accomplish in the Storting. But the second debate, on temporary arms, I find it more demanding, because there is what the Minister of Justice says, good professional advice, discussions from both the Police Directorate and the PST, which have made him likely to have concluded as he has. As a magnificent representative, I can only trust that the Minister of Justice has made good judgements through the secret information he has received, among others. from PST. But what I'm concerned about, like several others, is that it's going to be a temporary arrangement, and that's what the Minister of Justice has said it will be. The question then is whether he is sure that the police have received sufficient training and training. Police students are very clear that there are too many people who put up with shooting training, and that exercise among those who have the lowest number of training hours is just 40 hours per year – some have 100 hours per year – and they demand more training. Is the Minister of Justice sure that the training is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e640	I am sure that the Norwegian police are able to handle weapons in a safe and good way, but it is clear that it is among the assessments that the Police Directorate has also made when they have come up with recommended measures. There is no doubt that increased access to weapons may have other consequences, for example: damage shooting, wet shooting, theft of weapons, etc. These are assessments that the Police Directorate has made. This is not a black-and-white assessment, which I had in the past, but I have great confidence that Norwegian police are able to carry out the tasks they are trained to do. We have some of the best trained police in the world. We have good follow-up procedures in relation to weapons training and strategic training, so I feel very confident that the police are able to handle the situation we are currently facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e645	Jenny Klinge – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e648	In a chronicle in the VG today, the representative Solhjell State Council asks Anundsen ‘guarantee that this is not a permanent introduction of the armed police, but that it will stand up as soon as it is safe’. For my part, I would point out that the reason why the question is related to terrorist threats and weapons is so difficult is that we will never know when it will be safe again. To go even a little further: it will never be safe, neither for policemen, politicians or anyone else, all the time the danger of terror is as widespread as he is, both here to land and in other countries. For this reason, the issue of general armaments of the police for shorter, possibly longer, time must be based on more than the level of security. My question is: does the Minister of Justice see that granting renewal of general weapons over a long period of time will undermine the principle of an unarmed police force, and my Council of State that forward storage is not sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e657	The reason I have given my consent is that, like the police, I believe that advanced storage in the situation we are in today is not enough. It is quite obvious that the professional assessment of this issue, simply because the attack mode from which the threat assessment is based, is attacking very quickly, with very simple means, and where there is no time to run back to the vehicle and take out weapons. That's why it's handled that way, and the recommendation is what it is. It is my job to ensure that our officials and women are safe in their working situation, both for their own protection and to ensure a quick response. Therefore, I am very concerned to say that although we have now given this permission, that does not mean that there is a permanent permit for general armaments of the Norwegian police. The police didn't ask for it either. Nor is there any basis for us to sneak in the general weaponry of the Norwegian police today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e664	Abid Q. Raja - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e667	The left is concerned that the police will lose their civil impact on general armaments taking place, and among other things. This is why yesterday the Left has been promoting proposals in which the Stortinget can ask the government to promote a case in which the general armaments of the police are not to take place. We think general arms will give more, not fewer, dangerous situations, and it's especially that the question of general weapons is not solved, and that what is not a good idea, you want to leave the question of general weapons to the police at POD. The 2013 NRK survey showed that none of the 27 police officers would have general weapons. In Sweden, where this is a fact, every magazine shot from the police is a wet shot, and there are six times more shots even if you take into account the population difference. Norway’s Police Leaders Act has also distanced itself from the government’s proposals for general armaments. I can also refer to England. My question to the Council of State is: after seeing the Left's proposal from yesterday, does the Council of State think it is a good idea to turn around in relation to its own proposal on general armaments?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e676	As I mentioned before, the weapons directive and our new proposal for it have been out for consultation, and the government will deal with it later. We are a government that is very responsive to the Storting for quite natural reasons, and closely follow up on what is happening here. I want to say that I really think that the representative Raja makes the question of the civil character of the police a little too simple when there is a question of arms or not. The civil character of the police may also have a number of other factors and elements that it is important to take care of. I am not sure that an armed operation will automatically lose the civil character of the Norwegian police. It also has with what kind of task portfolio the police have, in what kind of situations you use weapons, what kind of consciousness you have when you're going into different situations, etc. Then I want to remind you that I think there are three countries, in addition to Norway, which have an unarmed police force, so it's not the general rule of an unarmed police force, but I understand the commitment to such a kind of case where you'll be able to risk a change of a lasting character, and it's going to be the subject of a broad political discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e686	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e689	The Minister of Justice has to come back to the pulpit, because the question goes to him. Chosen against kids is a serious social problem, and we have to start talking to these kids. Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum was very busy with this, Knut Storberget was very busy with this, and during the Stoltenberg II government, Norway went from having no children's home to having ten children's homes, where children who have been subjected to violence or violence can get proper follow-up – legal and medical. The Minister of Justice we've got now has already told us to get criticism from the organizations in the field for being too invisible. The government budget states that the time limit for the hearings shall be 30 days before 2014. The action plan against violence in close relations, which came a short week ago, just one month after the state budget, says that the procedure period should be 40 days — in other words, the pace of the Minister of Justice seems to have slowed down in a relatively short period of time. There is no measure of what time one should spend on the 14-day requirement of the law, and there is no target for 2015. My question is how long does the Minister of Justice see that he wants to use it before he comes to the law's request for a 14-day trial period for the judges of these kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e700	I am unfortunately not very surprised by this question, but the premises are something wrong. Tajik says that I have received criticism from the organisations for being invisible. I guess I've first and foremost been criticized by my political opponents for not being visible enough. I have to say that I'm actually getting tired of it, because it's for the first time misleading, but it's also completely contrary to the commitment I have for the weakest of the weakest. It's an unusually important task for me to talk to the children's case, and it's an engagement that also reflects on the results we actually see from government's policy. During the Workers' Party's time in the Ministry of Justice and Defence, the waiting time for the treatment of children in children's homes increased. It's only after we've started a big effort this year that one sees the arrow pointing in the right direction. So 40 days is too long. But 52 days is even longer. When we started this work, the waiting time for questioning children was 52 days, today it is down to 40 days. Then it's not good enough, we're still working to get it down further, and we've implemented a number of actions, both after political pressure and pressure from the police director, who are now following up these issues concretely in every single police district where there are not enough results. So I have to say, I think it's a sad starting point, really, for the whole question. So the question is when can we come within the law deadline of 14 days. I do not dare to give any clear answers. It depends on two things: one is how well we succeed with the skill that now really puts its mark on the process activity; the other is the consequences of the new method of child questioning. It will be promoted for Stortinget to next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e711	It is not true that only his political opponents have criticized him for being invisible. Among other things, UNICEF and Redd Barna have expressed the same thing. Then the Minister of Justice says that under the previous government time went up for children. Now there's been a special sport under this Justice Minister to point back and talk about the previous government, but what he totally ignores is that one previously did not have children's houses. It was created and built under the previous government. So it becomes too simple. I record that the Minister of Justice in the field selected in close relations has expressed that he believes that a change of pace has now been achieved. At least that's what he said when he made $50 million. kr for research on the matter in close relations. He forgot to tell me that this was the legacy of Stoltenberg II, it was the money from that budget. There was nothing in his own budget. The Christian People's Party and the Left were able to put something into the budget agreement. I'm curious where there was the great change of pace in power in close relations under this Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e720	I just have to say first that I have not overlooked the establishment of the children's houses. They have had great and strong support in Stortinget, and there has been a very important measure to give children a much more worthy and proper follow-up when they have been subjected to serious crime. Children’s homes are a very important measure with full government support and full support in this room. So I want to say a little bit about the results of the job that has been done so far. Firstly, the government has now started work on obtaining a basis for its own killing register. We have removed the limitation period for serious violence and abuse. We are creating our own Cold Case group. We have, as the representative himself was involved, proposed 50 million. SEK for research into violence in close relationships over a five-year period – we focus very strongly on this in the entire governance dialogue with the police. We've registered the Riksadvokat's involvement in his prioritisation. We're going to set up an expert group to review issues from A to Å, and the waiting time for child questioning has now fallen. I think it's a change of pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e727	It opens for one follow-up question – from Lise Christoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e730	Waiting time is also affected by the number of cases, and the government action plan has many measures to prevent violence against children, but responsibility is fragmented. Preparedness is much under discussion – preparedness for terror, preparedness for race and flood, but not preparedness for child-rearing. The Security Council of the municipalities shall identify the risk of adverse events, identify weaknesses, close gaps in cooperation between departments, fill in with competence, prepare for action when adverse events occur – violence against children is unfortunately a continuous series of adverse events – and last but not least, the Security Council shall prevent them through systematic cross-border cooperation. In the Emergency Council, the management is in all relevant departments including the police. My question is: Will the Council consider measures to ensure that violence against children becomes a priority task in the municipal emergency services?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e742	I think this kind of proposal and input is what this debate needs. There are constructive and creative notions of how we can do an important job even better. I heard the representative Christoffersen talk about this in connection with an interpellation earlier – if I don't remember wrong. I noticed that, and I'm going to see how we can follow it on. A little bit of the point of this is that we can try, as the main questioner did, to send the black pen back and forth, pointing to who does, and who doesn't, but the whole point is that there's a broad political commitment to this. It is important to use the resources that we have as a whole to improve the situation of children exposed to violence and to prevent violence in close relationships. Then I think the kind of recording that Christoffersen makes here is exactly the kind of recording that strengthens this debate, because they give a direction, gives new opportunities to evaluate. I think it's a much more constructive approach than trying to create some idea that someone doesn't deliver well enough. So I'll take the recording from Christoffersen further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e749	Then the time for the oral questioning process is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e761	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Transport, has been withdrawn. Questions 8 and 10 from the representative of Kari Henriksen, and Question 9, from the representative Heidi Greni to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be moved and answered before Question 1, at the request of the Council of State. Question 11, from the representative Knut Storberget to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has a disease. At the request of the Minister for Transport, the question will be moved and answered before question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State. So let's start with question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e780	‘10 minutes after the Committee of Assurance delivered the report to the Minister of Justice, representatives of the Progress Party on the Stortinget were quoted in writing that the report would not have consequences for what comes to the Stortinget from the Government, because the Progress Party on the Stortinget has great influence over the Minister of Justice. Can the Council of State decide whether the government concluded as quickly as the Progress Party on the Stortinget on the follow-up of the NOU, and whether the Progress Party on the Stortinget had been heard for its position before the government discussed the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e787	I get to thank you for this rather clever question, which I think can best be answered as follows: Investigation by the Liaison Committee, NOU 2014: 10 Guilty, expertise and social protection are fully concerned with key principles of Norwegian criminal law on difficult legal and political issues in the border country between law and psychiatry. The drug forms part of the core of criminal law, reflecting the need for a fair response and social protection for society, but also the need for treatment for individuals. The fundamental legal regulation of the borderline must be based on a thorough assessment with contributions from heavy and relevant competences, and this assessment will now be re-launched by society on the basis of the existing investigation. The NOU shall now be consulted on an ordinary basis and the government shall then start its policy follow-up process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e796	I thank you for your answer. I did not register an answer as to whether it was concluded in the matter. But it's at least a very important issue that's traveled through this NOU. The Stoltenberg government reinforced measures for this group of prisoners through increased appropriations and knowledge efforts by, among others, Bridged Security Department. I am pleased that the government in this budget has strengthened the appropriations for Ila, although it is uncertain what the bureaucracy is experiencing from the external aspects of the services of the criminal justice system. But that's more to do. I wonder if the Minister of Justice himself has visited Ila, department G, and what was the impression of the visit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e803	Let me first say that I answered the first question. I said that the political process will start after the hearing has ended, and that means you haven't concluded. I think it's hard to answer more clearly than that. In the case of Ila and the mentally ill, I have visited department G in Ila, and it makes a very strong impression. These aren't common sick prisoners, these are the sickest of the sickest prisoners. They have lived under what many will characterize as completely inhuman relationships for very, very many years. I'm tempted to point back, but I'll leave it. I'm glad that the Labour Party at least in the opposition also shows an commitment that the sickest of the sick prisoners will have a certain follow-up, much more so than what they get today. The first measure now in place, which was launched in the context of the review process, is that they will now have more follow-up to get out of the cell. There are resources that they have not had access to in the past. And then we have to consider how we're going to follow this up more closely, for example. with a view to making Ila a national competence centre for this particular type.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e810	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is busy with these prisoners – I am sincere. But I am also concerned about moving on, for this is not a matter that has been completed neither in the past nor in the time of this government. I am busy getting a little more information about how the Minister of Justice will continue to work on this issue. In this work I believe that the prisoners, their relatives, professional environments and employees of trust elected are important groups to have good dialogue with. What I'm asking is, what groups has the Minister of Justice talked to so far? And how does he intend to put up the further dialogue with the stakeholders involved in this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e815	I am pleased that the representative Henriksen now wants to move on. She is quite right that this process is not finished, either under the previous government or the last. It had not even started under the previous government. The first steps to deal with this unworthy situation for the few prisoners we're talking about started after the government change. Then the most important interlocutor on our part when we are going to further develop such an offer and make it safe, secure and targeted, will be Ila, and criminal care will be the most important premiscuous provider. In addition, we have regular dialogue with others who may be affected by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e822	We're going to go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e829	‘The Foreign Affairs Department of the Police reports 824 forced returns in October of asylum seekers and others who have not been granted a residence permit in Norway. This is the highest return rate recorded for one month. The aim is that a total of 10,100 will be returned in 2015, says Minister of Justice and Defence Anundsen in a press release. It is a well-known problem that many returnees return to Norway. How many of the forced returns from 2013 and 2014 have returned to Norway, and what measures have been taken to prevent such returns?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e836	Let me first thank you for the question. Then I would say that I am basically very proud of the result we are now seeing, among other things. that the Foreign Office of the Police is now able to send out more persons than ever before. It shows that political priorities are translated into practical action, using competent disciplines. The return of non-residents without a legal stay in Norway is a high priority area for the government. This year, therefore, through the budgetary procedure, we have ensured that the police will carry out at least 7 100 returns. That's an increase of about 45 pst. compared to the proposed Stoltenberg II government in 2014. The bet gives good results. Until October, the police had carried out 5,876 returns. All 33 p.m. Of these, persons who have been subjected to criminal action in Norway. Because personal checks are not carried out when crossing the internal Schengen border, we do not know how many of the forced returnees will return to Norway. The best indication of the number of non-residents returning to Norway after being transported is therefore the number of non-residents who are reported to be in breach of the entry ban. The police director informed that in 2013 448 cases were reported for a breach of the entry ban, and so far this year 370 cases have been reported. There has been a significant increase in expulsions. There has also been a significant increase in the number of notifications for breaches of the entry ban for a certain period, and through Prop. 181 L for 2012–2013, the penalty framework for infringements of the entry ban was quadrupled. It was also suggested that the level of normal penalties for first-time offences should be one year in prison. The proposal was sanctioned by the Council of State on 10 January this year. Feedback from the police is that the increase in the number of persons reported for a breach of the entry ban may appear to have stopped somewhat — which may show that the measure has had an effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e847	I thank you for the answer, but it was not really an answer to what I asked for. My question was, how many are returned again and again? This is ambitious returns, but it's easy to achieve the goals if it's the same as being returned every two months. But the important thing is how many will be returned and remain out of the country. Is there any overview of whether there are any persons who have been forced-returned several times during this period? If they are the same every time, it will be a meaningless waste of police resources. The question then arises: if the Council of State considers that there are other measures than more efficiency in transport that can help reduce the number of people being transported on time, e.g. more stringent border controls?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e854	If someone has an entry ban, comes back to Norway and is to be re-exported, they will first be taken for breaking the entry ban and punished for it. So I can't imagine that it's a big challenge that it's the same person who comes back again and again and again, when he has been banned from entering. The Schengen area, of which Norway is part, has some challenges in controlling travellers between different countries. The whole point of the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Agreement is that there should be free movement of labour between countries. There is no ordinary border control within Schengen and the Dublin Agreement should ensure that asylum seekers can be returned to the first applicant country. The last one works in a relatively good way. Many of the returns we carry out are Dublin returns. It is difficult to answer more specifically than I did in my main response, in addition to the fact that with today's legislation it is difficult to see that there are many people going in the swing door.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e861	Can I then understand the Council of States so that there is little we can do to avoid this problem, as long as we are part of the Schengen area, and that it is not possible to have more stringent border controls and prevent this, as the situation is today? There are many stories about someone returning at the same time as those assisting in the deportation, and if that is the case, there is a violent waste of police resources. Is there nothing we can do to prevent them from coming back when we've forced criminals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e868	Well, as I just said, we can take them when they get back. If they have returned in breach of the entry ban, they will be charged with it before an exit. The minimum sentence is in practice one year in prison. I think it has a very good preventive effect. I don't think there are many people who will come back and break the entry ban to Norway more than once, if that results in them being put in prison when they get back. I believe it is an effective and good measure. The framework we have under the Schengen Agreement sets the framework for the opportunities we have for action in the border area. We are now also examining other measures that may be relevant, mainly to combat the flow of criminals. But I find it difficult to imagine that this – with the level of penalties we now have for a breach of the entry ban – is going to be as serious a problem as the representative, Mr. Greni, suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e875	Then we go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e882	‘The 2015 draft budget of the Ministry of Justice and Defence states about cell duplication on page 54: ‘There have been no serious adverse events recorded as a result of the action.’ Can the State Council explain to the Storting what is considered to be serious adverse events, how and where are these recorded, when and in what forums has this been discussed, and when has the Council of State had, or is it supposed to have, formal meetings with the professional organisations in criminal matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e889	The phrase ‘serious adverse events’ includes violence and threats between prisoners. Also situations where prisoners have been subjected to violence or threats are defined as serious adverse events. Violence and threats from prisoners are recorded in the criminal justice internal control system – KICS. The report in the draft budget is based on the review by the Directorate-General for Criminal Affairs of events during the period between the implementation of the action and the completion of the draft budget. During this period no negative events have been recorded that can be associated with duplication. The Directorate shall obtain reports on violence and threats between prisoners who have produced one or more written reports. Serious duplication events are also caught in these reports. The reports shall be obtained on a quarterly basis. Unwanted situations that can be associated with duplication are a fixed item on the agenda of the monthly meetings of the Heads of State or Government with the Regional Director and the Executive Board, and so far the Directorate has not seen any serious events related to duplication through the meetings that have been held. Doubling issues have also been addressed in the Central Safety and Health Commission of the Criminal Service. The Directorate has also discussed this with the civil service organisations. The Ministry will monitor developments and obtain reports from the Directorate if necessary. Finally, I can assure you that the department of the department will closely monitor developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e898	I note that neither in this reply nor in the previous reply to me did the Minister of Justice specifically mention trust-elected or trust-elected organisations. But we can see that the government has not used what the government proposed as an alternative to duplication, namely the extension of the fine service and more use of electronic control. This would have released equivalent places that the minister has now doubled. What's interesting is that feedback has been received from trustees on concerns related to this, and I wonder: is there a pain limit for which events might indicate that the Minister of Justice will change the practice of duplication?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e903	I understand that it is not that easy to get everything I say in the answer. The representative believes that I did not mention the civil service organisations in criminal matters in particular, but I did. I can quote, since I have this in writing: ‘The directorate has also discussed this with the civil service organisations in the criminal service.’ So it has been discussed with the civil servants’ organisations. So I think it is completely wrong when the representative Henriksen says that increasing the number of possibilities to zone with electronic control will help solve this problem. There is a critical shortage of closed prisons. Thus, there are no persons who can avail themselves of the offer of electronic control. The capacity utilisation in electronic control is now that one actually has some available capacity, but we have zero available capacity in closed locations. Therefore, this is a necessary measure to ensure that one can compensate as quickly as possible for some of the missing bets in closed prisons by the former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e910	First, my question with regard to trustees was whether the Minister of Justice has taken the initiative to have contact with trustees about this, and that was what the Minister of Justice did not respond to. I also record that the Minister of Justice concludes that electronic control cannot be used or extended. At the same time, I see that the Minister of Justice himself considers a transfer to open prison for some of those who have previously been in closed prisons. I don't get that logic to vote completely. But I am interested to hear if the Minister of Justice will take the initiative to engage in dialogue with employees' organisations in criminal matters concerning the duplication of cells.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e917	In the past year, my State Secretary has had several meetings with the trade unions in criminal matters. I have had one meeting with the trade unions where the topics have been many and different, and where the trade unions have had the opportunity to discuss the questions they are most concerned about. We are concerned that this should be a situation that does not create greater challenges than it has to. We're concerned that this is going to be a successful project, and that's why we're also concerned that we need to have the number of events at as low a level as possible and facilitate them. But there's no quick-fix solution to the extreme deficiency we have in closed prisons. You can't build closed prisons in a few months. The previous government couldn't do it in eight years. We have to be faster than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e922	Then we go back to question 1, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e929	«Norwegian Editorial Association has been subject to communication regulations, ethics regulations and transparency rules in 22 municipalities in Akershus, Oslo Municipality and Akershus County. The report shows that three out of four municipalities in Akershus operate contrary to the law on transparency and transparency. If the government considers this to be satisfactory, will the government initiate a country-wide survey on the same subject, and what will the Council of State do to ensure freedom of expression for municipal employees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e936	I am pleased that such reports are presented. It creates debate and attention on areas where municipalities can improve. I would nevertheless stress that the situation is not as gloomy as the question might suggest. The report’s reference to where three out of four municipalities operate contrary to the law concerns the right of access and professional secrecy of elected representatives. This does not apply to the right of public access or freedom of expression of municipal staff. That report revealed that several municipalities did not have regulations under the municipal law § 40 no. 5, or that the municipalities went further in imposing the obligation of professional secrecy on the elected public authorities than that imposed by the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation's indicative general rules on the right of access by the elected public authorities, or applicable law. This is not satisfactory, and I assume that the municipalities concerned are taking action to remedy the situation. The current municipal law committee has, among other things: in its mandate to consider a stronger legal regulation of the right of access and professional secrecy of the elected public. I will await the report and proposals of the sample before considering any action in this area. Therefore, I do not see the basis for a larger country-wide survey now. As regards the report’s mention of the general regulation of the municipalities’ transparency and the freedom of expression of employees, it states, among other things. ‘ Fewer municipalities have ethical guidelines and communication strategies that directly violate laws and regulations [[...]] [[...]] Here I agree with the report that municipalities can improve their ability to familiarise employees with the freedom of expression they actually have. Municipalities should work to create a culture of transparency and to ensure that employees benefit from freedom of expression, including within their fields of competence. Local elected representatives are responsible for facilitating a culture of transparency so that employees are not in doubt that they can participate in the public debate. I expect the municipalities not to adopt regulations or otherwise take actions that could be seen as illegal restrictions on the freedom of expression of employees. Finally, I would like to add that transparency and alerting are also a central part of the ministry's ethics work carried out in cooperation with the KS and Transparency International Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e951	I thank you for your answer. I believe that the freedom of expression for the community is a much more comprehensive problem than perhaps the Stortinget wants to admit or is willing to see. It has our other studies that show that, among other things, teachers, nurses and firemen refuse to speak publicly in fear of sanctions. There are other investigations than the one I'm referring to here. The Civilombodsman has recently had an eloquent criticism of the municipality of Rana, because they went out and gave written warning to a medical doctor who made public statements about the municipality budget. There are many examples of this. It has been recommended that the State be able to draw up models of media regulations, so that it is not up to each municipality. Is this something that the Council of State will follow, that the Council of State can also contribute to good regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e958	The Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation now has standard guidelines for the right of access and the law in force, so it is in place. I think the most important thing in this question is that you get a local consciousness around this. What I referred to in my post, namely that the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, together with the KS and Transparency International Norway, are working on ethical issues and transparency culture, I think maybe one of the most important things. I myself attended a conference on this in the direction of the KS yesterday, and I perceive that there is interest in this area, and that there is a need for increased awareness, and not least that the municipalities are working on these issues locally. And it has to happen in an interaction between the local people elected and the administrative management of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e965	Thanks for the answer. I agree that there has to be a cultural change. It is not always that there is something in the way of regulation, but the practice of the regulations that exist. Nevertheless, all municipalities define the loyalty obligation itself. Freedom of expression is fundamental, but the obligation of loyalty is up to each municipality to define. The Freedom of Speech Commission recommended in 2003 a legal review of the limits on the obligation of loyalty. I feel that there is a major problem, both in municipalities and in healthcare companies, that it is up to each municipality, each enterprise, to define how wide or how far the loyalty obligation will go. If the Council of State considers doing what the Committee on Freedom and Rights recommended, it will have a legal review of the obligation of loyalty, for example. in a big message about freedom of speech?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e970	Now we have the Municipal Law Committee, which was set up by the previous government, which is also working on these issues, and I believe it is natural that we are now awaiting the conclusions of the Municipal Law Committee before considering further measures. I would like to stress that I agree with the approach that the representative Toppe has, that this may be more about practice than legal regulation. This is precisely why it is important that municipalities themselves address these issues, and that experience-sharing and awareness-raising are actively pursued, including through the KS, where both municipal leaders and elected representatives have the opportunity to discuss practice and not least learn from each other. I believe that the representative and I agree that transparency culture is important both to promote democracy and to combat corruption and other things that we do not want from.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e975	Then we go to question 11. This question, from Knut Storberget's representative to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e984	Yes, it's really for the Minister of Agriculture, but I realize that the Minister of Transport has been so loving to step into her place. It's okay. The question is: ‘The proposal for a new regulation on production subsidies in agriculture opens up the possibility for companies and cooperatives to receive production subsidies. This can lead to vertical integration by allowing larger parts of the production chain to be owned by the same capital player and by weakening the personal local ownership of Norwegian agricultural resources. Does the Council of State feel that such developments are desirable and that this will strengthen competition and the position of consumers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e991	Let me first say that if an AS can own agricultural property, it is regulated by the concession law, and not by the regulation on production subsidies, as a prerequisite for the issue. Let me still give you a broader answer. Production grants are intended to contribute to the achievement of the agricultural policy objectives set by the Storting. There has never been an objective that production subsidies should also regulate the ownership structure of agricultural enterprises. There are other instruments, such as: the law of concession. This assessment was carried out as early as 2002, when the regulation on production subsidies was made neutral in terms of organisational form. The current restriction on the production grant regulation – which has been proposed to be repealed – is that production grants should not be granted to undertakings wholly or partly owned by a limited liability company. Public limited liability companies are excluded, and I'd like to think that's the real issue. Structural differentiation of grants was stronger in 2001 than at present. Today they are largely gone. In the consultation note from that time on, there was a fear that some would split up enterprises with a view to obtaining additional structural grants, i.e. to reduce each unit to the maximum of grants. So that was justified by control. With AS as the owner of AS, it was considered difficult and costly to control who were the back owners. I Prop. 106 On the agricultural situation last year, the Ministry outlined the need for revision of the production grant regulation and mentioned the main changes that were to be sent to the hearing. There are now a number of companies that have joint interests, in particular as a result of the special legislation we have had for joint ventures. The proposal for a regulation is to have common rules for all. It will provide a significant simplification both for the farmers themselves and for the administration. In the assessment of the operating community and questions of one or more beneficiaries, the decisive point after that will be whether the undertakings are effectively operating together and not whether they are formally joint interests in the scheme. At the same time, structural differentiation in the area grant referred to above is made in such a way that it is no longer possible to obtain higher area grants through fragmentation. The Ministry has therefore proposed to abolish the restrictions on ownership. The background is that the criteria do not meet with regard to achieving the objective of preventing undertakings from collecting grants that they do not qualify for because they are in an operating community. A formal joint ownership between the holders of different entities is rarely sufficient to establish that the undertakings are operating as one business. As long as the ownership rules themselves do not meet the objective, the restrictions applicable to AS do not apply. If we do not lift the ownership restrictions, this will have special consequences for farmers who are both involved in joint farming and who are engaged in their own independent livestock production. This could be done, for example, by: be an undertaking which has run with milk but has ceased and is now engaged in sheep farming, but which is the joint owner and has introduced the milk quota into a milk-producing undertaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1004	With respect for the fact that it is the Minister for Transport who answers – at least I want to try some follow-up questions. It is true, as is now said, that the concession law very much determines who should be able to own Norwegian agricultural properties. This is, of course, a law that has been proposed and is it not that, if production subsidies are more open so that they can also go to limited liability companies, they risk moving in a direction where it is the large capital players who will also have the opportunity to own land and forests, and that it means that we have fewer players and less competition? Does the Minister for Transport see the dilemma in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1011	No, it won't be any different than today to a significant extent. Because today, if you run economies of scale, you're going to lose a lot of the grants, because they're structured so that you get more support per cow if you have a few cows than if you have many. This means that this change will not mean that a large group as it is in the cards from the query here – will have some incentive to suddenly enter the Norwegian market. This change makes it more sensible for the small and smaller farmers who have been driving milk to go over to, for example, to drive with sheep. By having two different units, they will be able to receive grants for the share they hold in a joint venture, while also receiving grants for what they operate separately, for example. sheep. The important thing here is that you can't get grants you don't have the right to, and that's whether you have operating benefits by operating with someone. So as long as you have separate units, you don't want to earn it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1016	I just have to say that this is what I really disagree with. It must, of course, be that it is a strong incentive for limited liability companies to now open up so that these types of companies can receive production subsidies and that it will help to ensure that they too will be interested in entering this market. When you want to remove the concession law at the same time, I find it difficult to see that there should be a significant brake on us getting that development in the property structure of agriculture. I am not going to take that discussion further with the Minister of Transport, we will probably have – I hope we get – the occasion in Stortinget. My last question, or it may be a request, is that this type of very important structural discussion about Norwegian agriculture and the ownership of renewable, eternal resources should be taken into account in the Storting. Will the government bring this matter of production subsidies into the Storting, or will you just make a change to the regulation on your own?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1023	This was mentioned during the agricultural process. There is even a setting where the Working Party and the Center Party are in minority, but this does not mean that the Stortinget has not been told. The size was told. The working party did not get its will. This does not mean that Stortinget has to deal with the matter again until the Workers' Party gets its will. I just remind you once again that the changes you're making now have nothing to do with who can own agricultural property. It's regulated elsewhere. This has with what kind of grants you might be entitled to. An AS that owns several farms, for example, and combines them to gain economies of scale, because of its economies of scale, will lose the right to a lot of the subsidies. So the economics here are based on smaller agricultural properties, not on the big ones, as the representative Storberget suggests that the AS would operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1034	My question is: ‘The draft selection study for crossing the Oslofjorden recommends building a bridge or tunnel between Horten and Moss and, where appropriate, bridge over the Hawaii to replace the Oslofjorden Tunnel. The member of the Council of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment states that we need to drive a smaller car to cut emissions. There is broad technical consensus that increased road capacity increases traffic. Can the Council of States explain the climate impact of this measure and how it comes out in relation to alternative measures such as ferries or collective solutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1043	I received the concept selection investigation, the KVU, from the State Road Administration in a press meeting on 19 November. There is a thorough investigation that has been carried out in which they have assessed many different alternatives, both brown solutions, tunnel solutions and continued ferry operations. They have assessed the collective situation and various environmental aspects, both in terms of emissions of CO2 and other things, and in terms of the impact on land and the impact on fjords themselves. Within a short time, the State Road Service will send the KVU on consultation to relevant actors locally. We want to review the KVU in parallel from the Ministry of Transport to obtain an external quality assurance, i.e. a KS1, in line with established systems. The Ministry of Transport will then be responsible for quality assurance, together with the Ministry of Finance, in line with normal procedures. The impact of the different options, or concepts, will then be subject to quality assurance assessment. It also applies to climate-related conditions. It is therefore not the right time for me to think about this now – in that case it will short-circuit the processes of both consultation and quality assurance. But I can establish that climate and environment are one of the important criteria used when such matters finally come to political treatment. At the same time, building fjord crossings or better roads in itself is not automatically bad for the environment and for the climate. Some places have a transport need that needs to be resolved. And one knows that good traffic flows, at constant speed, are better for the environment than queues – with large emissions and a lot of energy consumption – because one then has stop-and-go driving all the way. In addition, one knows that a fjord crossing here could lead to much better collective coverage. If a railway is selected, a railway can be used. If a select path is selected, a bus can be used. This means that one gets an effective flow of people — and, hopefully, goods through freight — by having a link between Eastfold and Westfold. With regard to how to cut emissions from car traffic – which was specifically brought up here – the only solution is to ask people to stop driving. Another and much better solution — given a modern society and the need for people to get to and from work, to and from cultural services, to and from school — is to build larger housing and work regions, which is important for this government. Then it's about making sure that people primarily drive collectively, and if they don't, they choose more environmentally friendly cars. Then it's about stimulating the use of low-emission cars or zero-emission cars – which I'm very positive about – or about getting a more environmentally friendly fuel. Both parts are so important, because even an electric car will have a much better environmental account if it goes on hydropower than if it goes on coal power. So road does not mean poor climate accounting. It's about the whole of society and how we put things together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1061	The report we have received recommends that the options that have the best climate classification, i.e. Options 1 and 2 are rejected in favour of the options that have the worst climate classification, i.e. the highest greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. K3 Bru Moss-Horten and K4 Tunnel Moss-Horten. Although the Council of State makes it clear that he cannot push conclusions, it is interesting to hear how he assesses recommendations that prioritise bad climate solutions rather than good climate solutions, as the report itself recommends to them, especially in the light of the discussion we have had here in the past, in the spontaneous Question Time, which was just about the government insisting that their climate policy will lead to a decline in emissions in the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1068	This government has a good climate policy. This does not mean that all possible measures should be initiated as soon as the idea has come into being. It is about being able to prioritise different good actions, both implementing technologies that exist in the market, in the short term, and helping to develop technologies that can replace current solutions in the longer term. And then it's about making the best use of resources. For me, it is not the best solution – if you want to develop a housing and labour market – to say that ferries are the solution. Building continental connections or connecting two areas that are on each side of a fjord often means that one gets done something about the dynamics of a community. Connecting the Moss region with the Horten region – and really not just these, but the whole of Eastfold and Westfold – allows one to get a dynamic that for me is very positive: one will get many more traveling. Everything else like it is – from an environmental perspective – stupid if people move on, but I think it's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1075	I can only see that while the Minister for Climate Change insists that emissions from the transport sector are going to fall because the government is implementing measures such as cutting emissions, the Minister for Transport is much less clear about this. Option 2 – K2 The Hurum link combined with road and rail solutions – appears to be the best climate option, as this is the only option that actually provides a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a sustainable public transport structure for the future. This option is also given the best ranking, i.e. good, among the alternatives – based on climate accounting – while the other environmental impacts do not appear to be elucidated. The next question is: Has the overall environmental impact of all alternatives been investigated, and if they are not, will the Council of State ensure that the overall environmental impact of all alternatives is investigated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1082	I disagree with the entrance to the question, because the representative here assumes that one will never be able to do anything about CO2 emissions from private cars or from other vehicles. I think we can do that. Norway is in the driving seat to show that it is more possible to get zero-emission cars on the roads, especially in the case of electric cars. Biofuels entering the module in hybrid cars will also make a significant contribution to the climate. Even if a build road, that doesn't mean an automatic increase in CO2 emissions into eternity. On the contrary, the concepts of technology used in the case of vehicles are essential. In the case of collective action, it is not the case that a person must build a railway in order to have a collective arrangement. On the contrary, many places where you have spread the population and people are going in different directions, actually having good bus offers can be as attractive as spending a lot of money on a route that benefits few. Therefore, the railway must be built where it has its advantage, and the bus offer where it has its advantage. It'll be part of the assessments we're making on this KVU.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1106	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1113	‘Norwegian health professionals have given vital medical support to the victims of war through the recent wars in Gaza. Mads Gilbert has been a doctor several times at the Shifa Hospital in Gaza. Now he is denied entry to do the job as a doctor, perhaps in his lifetime. The justification shall be that Gilbert poses a safety risk to Israel. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think about this, and what will the Minister for Foreign Affairs do in order for Gilbert to have the opportunity again to do important medical work in Gaza?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1120	First, thank you for the question. In reply to written questions from the representative Kjersti Toppe, I explained last week about the Norwegian authorities' handling of Gilbert's entry problems. Norwegian authorities are very concerned about the absence of obstacles to humanitarian aid in conflict areas. Mads Gilbert is now prevented from continuing his work in Gaza as a result of his refusal to enter via Israel. Gilbert himself contacted the Norwegian Embassy in Tel Aviv when he was refused entry. The embassy followed up the matter in agreement with Gilbert. The embassy contacted the Israeli administrative body for the occupied Palestinian territories. It was stated that the decision was justified on safety grounds, without further explanation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs reopened the case with Israeli authorities on 29 October and followed up the case at political level with Israel's ambassador in Oslo on 14 November. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has stated that we do not understand the decision, and that we hope that it is possible to resolve the matter, so that Gilbert can resume his work in Gaza as soon as possible. It's our understanding now, with the information we have, that the decision is temporary and situational. We will continue to address the issue with Israeli authorities on future occasions and at the level deemed appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1135	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good answer. I am pleased that the Norwegian authorities have been clear in the matter, both here in Oslo and at our embassy in Tel Aviv. We hope to continue that, and of course it has the full support of the Workers' Party. The first reactions that came from the government parties were something quite different. A member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, was quick out there expressing full support for Israel's decision, and felt that there were certainly good reasons for it. Tybring-Gjedde further stated that Mads Gilbert could only find another conflict to engage in, so he did not understand why this was a big deal. What does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think about his own people here in the Foreign Affairs Committee, from the government parties, being responsible for something so quite different in such an important matter as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1144	I just think I have to repeat what I said in my reply to the representative, that I am unable to understand the decision that the Israeli authorities have made, and that we hope it is possible to resolve the matter. What is positive is the understanding that we now have that this is a decision that is temporary and situational. But, of course, we have no guarantees. The first impression you could get through the media was that this was something that was almost lifetime, but our understanding now is that this is situational and related to the situation in Gaza. Then I have to live with the fact that there are different opinions about this, but I have explained the government's view and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1151	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not understanding Israel's decision. Although he did not respond to the question, he said indirectly that he also did not understand the reactions of the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I'm not gonna go on with it. I have a question of a more general nature, because this is not about Mads Gilbert, and it's definitely not about Christian Tybring-Gjedde; it's about the Palestinian people and the people of Gaza. My question is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs fears that this could become a more general situation, that other medical personnel – not only Mads Gilbert – should be refused entry, that journalists and even diplomats should be refused entry into Gaza. So my question to the Foreign Minister is whether he fears that this will be a more persistent problem, and how Norway as a country should deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1158	The representative is right that over the past few weeks we have seen a significant deterioration in the situation between Israel and Palestine. It is essential now that both medical assistance and the necessary equipment for the reconstruction of Gaza are deployed. And it is Israel who sits on the necessary mechanisms. The UN has developed a mechanism that is accepted, but it is far too slow to get what is needed from building materials and other materials for reconstruction. For the time being, we have no indication that there are other medical personnel who have been refused entry, as far as I am aware, but we are following this closely. Medical needs are high, and it is a good humanitarian principle that when someone wants to help, they are allowed to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1169	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Industry the following questions: ‘The government has stated in several contexts that they will continue the cooperation agreement with the umbrella organisations of the non-profit actors providing health and social services. The cooperation agreement shall require at least two meetings of the year. What is the status of the work and what results have been achieved after the accession of the government of Solberg?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1176	The government wants increased use of non-profit actors as providers of health and social services. It can contribute to a more diverse service provision with good and adapted services for users. Ideal organisations often have a high level of competence and sound professional environments that make them important partners. We will therefore continue and strengthen the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector. The government has been working to find good measures that can help further develop the cooperation agreement and improve the framework conditions of non-profit service providers. Several of these actions were presented at a meeting between the government and the ideal umbrella organisations on 13 November this year. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the possible measures with the ideals and to hear what suggestions they themselves have to improve their situation. Of the possible measures presented to the non-profit sector, I can, among other things, mentioned the increased use of long-term contracts. It will help to create more predictable framework conditions for suppliers and greater opportunities to build skills. Furthermore, the Ministry of Culture will draw up a report which will explain the possible advantages of non-profit organisations in the field of health and social protection. The intention is that the results of the report may be used for future public acquisitions. The government also wants to focus more on the development and use of good quality criteria. This work is particularly important because the exemption to reserve competitions for health and social services for the non-profit-making providers falls away for contracts in excess of approx. 6.3 million. kr, when the new EU procurement directives are due to be implemented in spring 2016. The government considers it unfortunate that this exception cannot be continued, and we therefore asked Professor Fredrik Sejersted at the University of Oslo to make an independent legal assessment of this issue. The conclusion to Sejersted was quite clear: the exemption cannot be continued. However, the venue considers that there will still be a certain room for action to ensure that the ideal actors in public procurement are taken into account. The government has now been working to find measures within this space of action, and we will continue this work in dialogue with the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1189	I thank the Minister for the answer. It was interesting that the Minister of Industry recalls the EU Directive, because when it was published, the Minister of Industry sent out a press release saying that the EU Directive is a step in the right direction. The answer to the Minister of Industry may indicate that she has come up with better ideas after that press release, because the relationship with the ideals is complicated by that EU directive. We have just heard representatives from the government speaking here in this Chamber that it is an objective of the government that the ideal and commercial actors should be fully equalised. How does it relate to the intention of the Council of State to increase the use of the ideals? Is this the direction, or is it the direction, that the ideal and commercial actors should be fully equalised?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1198	With regard to what the EU procurement directive – which is well known to the questioner, because this was actually decided before we joined – actually contains, there is a lot of positive about it. It is a simplified procurement legislation that will be good for business. When it comes to the situation of the ideals, we've been very worried about it. We have expressed our concern, and we have, as I said, just acquired legal competence to find out what action space we have. We recognise the value of the ideals and jobs they do, and are now trying to adapt to a regulatory framework that we, like the EU countries, have to deal with. That also means that in every area we can, we're trying to find ways to do these in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1205	I thank you again for the answer, but it sounds like the government is looking for the advantages that they have when you have to put down your own work to find them. But my question then goes to the Council of State. We have now experienced that child protection contracts are being published for 14 months. This is justified by the need to get in touch with the commercial players in the field, so that you can compete at the same level. Then we've seen that sensible state buyers within the healthcare system have contracted 6 plus 2 years. Will the Council of State take the initiative to have a common position within the Government on the length of such contracts and does the Council of State consider that contracts of 14 months are in line with the intentions of the Cooperation Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1212	When it comes to finding the ideal advantage, that's not what we're looking for, and that's not what I've been explaining. What we are looking for is what legal space we have within a regulatory framework that came into place when the red-green government set up, and to which we have had to deal. It's in the legal space, and it's on that occasion that we can take advantage of the ideals that can be used when public purchasing services. As far as the length of the contracts is concerned, it is precisely because we have to implement a directive that has rules different from what we have today. We have to deal with that, and that's why we work together with the entire government to clarify these legal relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1224	I will ask you the following questions: ‘The Stoltenberg government had the ambition that Norway should be the world leader in the training of Arctic maritime competence. The 2013 Maritime Strategy, Stø kurs 2020, states that Norway should be a driver through the International Maritime Organisation to complete the Polar Code as a binding global code for navigation in polar waters. [[IMO]] At the same time, the need to establish a national centre of competence for the training of seafarers for navigation in polar waters should be addressed. What are the concrete plans of the Government to ensure Arctic maritime competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1233	The northern regions are one of the main areas of government activity. In the future, the government will give priority to these five areas: international cooperation, knowledge-based business, broad knowledge development, infrastructure and environmental protection, security and preparedness. It is important for this government to maintain and further develop the maritime Arctic competence. The government is now working on a new maritime strategy, where both competences and northern areas are important focus areas. To this end, a consultation meeting will be held with the industry on the northern regions of Tromsø on 27 November of this year, including: knowledge is one of the themes. The government's objective is that Norway should continue to be the leader in knowledge of, for and in the north. Knowledge is the key to meeting the challenges and making responsible use of the opportunities. Training requirements are one of the most important elements for safe operation in polar regions. The United Nations Maritime Organisation, IMO, adopted last Friday safety rules applicable to ships sailing in polar waters. The Polar Code sets out, inter alia: requirements for those on board who are to receive specific training. The content of the training is expected to be determined by the IMO Training Committee during 2016. Norway has been — and Norway is — a driving force in this work. Nationally, different education and training programmes for seafarers related to the operation of ships in polar waters are currently provided. Business in the northern regions is becoming increasingly knowledge-based. Strengthening and further developing Arctic maritime competence in a broad perspective is part of the knowledge-based nutrition initiative. Increased competence could contribute to increased innovation, value creation and sustainable development in the northern regions. Targeted measures to facilitate access to skilled labour in the north are therefore important. In this context, the Government wishes to carry out an investigation into the need to establish a national centre of expertise for Arctic maritime competence and training of seafarers related to polar water operations. The investigation is planned to be carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in spring 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1248	Firstly, I must thank you for your answer. I've come to realize that the Council of State has been active in this for the past week, and I'm very happy about it, but what's being said now is that you want to investigate that center of competence. Is there any plan as to when, if any, this will be completed? The entry into force of the Polar Code itself is in January 2017, so if you carry out that investigation in the spring of 2015, is it that you have thought about having a common centre of competence that is new, or are you going to include it in some of the institutions you already have? I would like to ask a specific question about how the Council of State looks at UNIS, The University Centre in Svalbard, possibly as a location for that type of education, and about when it might be possible to join.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1255	I hope the Council of State, more than this last week, has been active in these issues. Now we've been working on a maritime strategy very actively, especially in the last few months, and last night we had a dialogue meeting on competence and education in Ålesund. As I said, there will also be a hearing in Tromsø tomorrow. I will not foreshadow the content, either in terms of UNIS as an institution or in terms of what else this investigation will involve. What we are aware of is the time limit for the IMO and the safety rules that apply there. As I said, we are going to have the investigation completed in spring 2015, so this work is really going as fast as it can and parallel to the maritime strategy, which we are also going to have ready in spring 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1260	That's the way the Polar Code contains rules for both safety and the environment, but what I think about in particular concerns security. One thing is to train people and have the right skills, but it also asks you what kind of security networks you have. Then I am also interested to hear how the Council of State works to facilitate a land-based AIS chain system along Svalbard in particular, and whether it is possible to get a small report on how the map coverage of the sea area around Svalbard is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1265	As far as the safety rules of the IMO are concerned, this is a minimum regulation. Norway has played an important role. Persons in the Maritime Directorate have been important and active drivers, but because this is a minimum regulation – that is how far we have come with 170 countries – we must, of course, continue to work. I can't answer questions about concrete investigations related to the area around Svalbard, but we have to make sure that we're in the forefront of security regulations and the developments we see coming in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1276	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘Agderposten 19 November 2014 mentions that a person was hired to expel spirits from employees and residents of a municipal institution for disabled persons in Arendal. The matter has been covered. The municipality will not inform about the facts. Neither the county doctor nor the patient representative will do anything to find out what has happened. Does the Council have any views on such a practice in municipal health and care services, and how does the municipality act in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1285	Of course, it's not good with the kind of activity in places where people live and get their municipal services. This is also what the municipality of Arendal has cleaned up. I assume that the municipalities of the country provide sound and adequate health and care services based on good professional practice and in accordance with established requirements or in compliance with law and regulations. The county council has the power to supervise this and, if the municipal health and care services are operated in a way that could be harmful to patients or others, or in a way that is irresponsible, the State Health Authority, as the overall supervisory authority, may impose a directive on the municipality to rectify the situation. In the first place, the municipality is responsible for not doing this, and as if it did, it is responsible for cleaning it up. Of course, the supervisory authorities also have the possibility to assess whether there is a basis for setting up supervisory cases in the light of the information available to them. I'm sure one does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1294	I thought this might have been an isolated case, but in our country a number of similar cases have occurred during the period 2006-2011, among others. in kindergartens, housing, childcare facilities, hospitals and health centres. They might give a little bit more cause for concern than just this single thing. It's often about vulnerable people, and in this case, I and many others wonder what really happened. Has an e.g. breach of data protection, some have been harmed, what the municipality has done in retrospect, the relatives have agreed to this, etc. I feel in a way that I do not get any clear answers. My follow-up question to the Council of State is, how can we ensure that this information comes out in a good way? And how can one ensure that such things don't happen again in Arendal and other municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1301	I think that is an excellent question for those who have been elected to the City Council in Arendal, but I do not see that there are relevant questions for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1306	I also record that the county board, as the minister says, is responsible for supervision. Personally, I have to say that I am surprised that the county doctor has not chosen to open the supervisory case here, but that the matter has become part of the municipal proceedings. As long as the municipality has closed the case, the county doctor does not seem to want to open his own case about this. Will the State Council send a signal to the county doctor that this matter is so special that a person should open a case and start supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1311	The answer to that is no. The county itself shall give priority to the supervisory matters for which the use of resources is necessary. In this case, the municipality itself has cleaned up, but it is the State that is fully independent in assessing which supervisory matters to engage in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1316	Questions 8, 9 and 10 were answered before question 1. Question 11 has been answered before question 2. Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-26.ana.ud333e1331	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
