ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e81	The President proposes that three presidents be elected for the Storting meeting today – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham, Øyvind Halleraker and Sverre Myrli. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham, Øyvind Halleraker and Sverre Myrli are unanimously elected as presidents of the current meeting. A number of permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave of the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen from 24 April onwards and until further notice from the representative Martin Henriksen on welfare leave from 24 April to 27 April onwards, and then from 28 April to 11 May thereafter, from the representative Arild Grande on parental leave from 5 May to 12 May from the Workers' Group on the leave of the representatives Jorod Asphjell and Kåre Simensen from 5 May to 9 May, both to take part in a Nordic master's course in social security and preparedness at Hurtigruten. from the Left-wing Group on the leave of the representative Ola Elvestuen for the period from 5 May to 7 May to participate in the forest conference on Jakarta. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first and second alternates of the Troms County, Sigmund Steinnes and Christin Kristoffersen, are currently abroad and are therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinget on 24 April under the authority of the representative Martin Henriksen. From the first representative of the Finnmark County, Ingarill Olsen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the permission of Mr Kåre Simensen, for reasons of well-being. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Ronny Berg 24 April and until further notice, and Runar Seestad 6-8. May For Oslo: Guri Melby 6.-7. May For Troms County: Tor Inge Hoaas 24 April and Sigmund Steinnes 6-8. May For Nord-Trøndelag counties: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan 6-8. May For South-Trundellag County: Gunn Elin Flakne 6-8. May
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e173	Ronny Berg and Tor Inge Hoaas are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e181	The representative, Mr Rommetveit, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e184	On behalf of Lise Christoffersen, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Ingvild Kjerkol, Sverre Myrli and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative that tolls can also be used for necessary external emergency measures, and that is an amendment of the Road Law § 27.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e189	The representative, Mr Micasen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e192	On behalf of Tove Karoline Knutsen, Freddy de Reuter, Ruth Mari Grung, Audun Otterstad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on increased hospital capacity and shorter waiting time for patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e198	The representative of Terje Aasland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e201	On behalf of the large-scale representatives Ola Elvesuen and myself, I would like to propose a representative to close the extended trial of snowmobile use and change the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e206	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e209	On behalf of the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on the introduction of a Norwegian climate percentage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e214	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e230	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e244	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e251	The Committee on Transport and Communications has examined a proposal from representatives Terje Breivik and Ketil Kjenseth for the establishment of a national broadband plan. The proposers wished to establish a national broadband infrastructure development plan. We have pointed out in the proposal that major, future societal challenges lie in access to broadband as a basic infrastructure, and that a plan is desirable to ensure a basis for public sector renewal, better care and welfare services, and also an offensive industrial policy. The position of the majority in the Committee on Transport supports the Left's proposal for a representative, and it is also supported by all parties in the Committee, with the exception of the Central Party, which has its own proposal. SV is not, as you know, represented in the committee. It is a pleasure that the setting has such broad support, and it is important that a good debate be held on this issue – including further efforts on the communication infrastructure. The fact that this field is now being duly noted in the Committee on Transport and Communications is gratifying. The broadband supply in Norway is good for most places, but there has been strong growth in demand for fast up and downloads. In order for the whole country to participate in an increasingly digitised society, there has to be broadband with good capacity and reliability in all parts of the country. In addition, our needs are different from what they were just a few years ago. Now we expect to have coverage in the car, on the bus, on the train, on the sea and on the mountain, and this is the cross-political unity about. There is also a clear goal in the government platform of the Progress Party and the Right that ICT is a bet area. A requirement for increased use of ICT is that solutions are made available to everyone. Our political promise is that this government will build the country. It will require a change of pace in development to achieve the objective of access to high-speed networks across the country. Right is the fact that all actors, technologies and instruments are evaluated and put into service. Perhaps the goal of some places could be easier to achieve via air and cables, and the management of the proposal for a representative has shown that also a number in the Committee believe that the goal can best be achieved through a national electronic communications plan – not a purely broadband plan. The plan must ensure that the authorities provide the appropriate incentives for the holistic development of infrastructure for electronic communications that is forward-looking, market-based and technology-neutral. Two points from the representative proposal were not included in the setting. It's definitely not because we don't think they're important, because both a backbone and an extraterrestrial are important and obvious parts of a future plan. But to set the instructions for how to solve it will not be correct at that time. When things go on with the government, it is important to listen to good, professional assessments of how we can jointly achieve desired goals with different instruments. Consumer and business expectations – society’s needs – are to be met here, and high-speed networks across the country, at a speed of 100 MB, are the goal. There is a need for a plan to ensure sound thinking, which can contribute to a more open network and increase competition for content. Our most important task as politicians is now to contribute to increased interaction, efficiency and efficiency. We look forward to further work on a national plan that ensures that we achieve the goal and that meets society's expectations for electronic communications in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e279	The Internet and use of ICT mean that we are in the middle of a technological and social change that is the biggest since industrialization. Society has been through-digitalised, and ICT is an increasingly important part of our daily lives. The Workers' Party is therefore committed to ensuring that everyone in society has the necessary digital competence, so that no new social distinctions exist between those who have and those who do not have the competence to participate in society on all platforms, as it says. Digital solutions are being developed rapidly. They are often cheaper than traditional solutions, and in areas such as health, education, the media and the public sector, new solutions are being established. We in the Workers' Party will take advantage of the opportunities that this offers to create better services, value creation and more knowledge in the population. Therefore, access to good and stable network solutions is an important part of our common infrastructure, in line with what electricity, road, water and sewerage were in their time. Access to good network solutions is important for individual participation in society, for employment and for business. The Labour Party believes that we need to facilitate a world-class broadband offer in Norway. ICT markets are in continuous development and are market driven. We in the Workers' Party want the authorities to organize and provide good incentives for this industry. At the same time, we need to ensure that the authorities do not intervene in such a way as to inhibit innovation and that new technologies are rapidly deployed. In the case of high-speed fibre networks, I have to mention the good job that several of our regional power companies have done in expanding fibre optic superwide bands in many regions. Public authorities must be involved and take responsibility for the development of networks where market-based solutions do not succeed alone. Some of the regional power companies have developed business models that allow the production of fibre also in the non-commercial areas. I hope that the government will take a closer look at when they return to Stortinget. In the Nord-Trøndelag, where I come from, fiber has been passed to small rural communities that no commercial operators would even count on without this business model, where support from the municipality and the county and a considerable effort by the subscribers themselves are part of the split layer. I want to mention that reigning fiber ambassador Trond Olav Beitland comes from my home municipality. He received the appointment in connection with Fiber Day 2014 in February. Beitland was the project manager for the construction fibre project in Forradal, where the inhabitants themselves contributed 3 500 hours of effort to get the fibre cable carried over to the village. These are small rural communities, where there are very small people, but with enough broadband capacity for a couple of hundred thousand inhabitants. Technological development gives us new opportunities to exploit our resources and to create a variety of economic development and jobs across the country. I would like to thank the Left-wing rapporteurs for putting the need for a national broadband plan on the agenda through their representative proposal. I would also like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their broad consensus and, in particular, the overall committee which is in favour of the decisions on the matter. The Labour Party supports the majority position and looks forward to the government returning to Stortinget with a concrete proposal for a national electronic communication plan. However, I ask that the Minister for Transport take note of some of the leaders and issues mentioned both in my speech and by the case-rapporteur, who are also given in the form of a comment in the position itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e302	Broadband expansion is an important and right thing to do now in our days, for both business and private people. Investing in modern information and communication technologies offers great opportunities for simplification for most people in meeting with the public sector, but also, mostly, in today's society. The government platform says that the government will ensure access to high-speed broadband across the country, with speed targets up to 100 MB. It will provide a great opportunity for improving the efficiency of active use of ICT in both the private and public sectors. Therefore, I would like to say that this proposal to establish a national broadband plan falls directly into the government's signalled commitment to broadband development. We are therefore asking the government to present a national electronic communications plan that includes all the important elements: use, quality and safety. More and more are and will be dependent on the Internet, and we want good broadband expansion in all parts of the country. It is no longer just young people who are dependent on, or who are users of the electronic communications we have built and which we are expanding. People of all ages use this tool, for both work and hobbies. That is why it is very important that we have a good long-term plan for the development and protection of electronic communications. In addition to having access, it is also important that the personal security of those who are users of electronic communications is present. Security for businesses and our country must also be given priority. Electronic crime is a problem we have to look at in this context. We need to develop systems to prevent this and make all users aware that this is a danger and that we need to make sure. This makes it particularly important to have a good and long-term plan for further development. There is no longer a digital class distinction between age groups, but there is a digital class distinction between those parts of the country that have good access and those parts that have poor access to electronic communications. We have to do something about that. A distinction is made between profitable or commercial and non-commercial areas in Norway. Therefore, non-commercial areas must also be included in the national electronic communications plan. We need to look at what means we should use and what development will be when we take these areas into account. It is important that we use Norway as a whole, and then a national electronic communications plan must also reflect this. Increased investment in ICT and broadband is a key to future welfare and growth in Norway. The State must have overall responsibility for broadband availability, it is stated in the Government Platform. In addition, the establishment of a national broadband excavation code would be a good investment for future generations. We know that national digging regulations will benefit the development of the network in an incredibly positive way to the joy of the population, because the development of a national digging code will make it easier and faster. To date, there have been considerable differences in the depth of the builder’s digging to put down cables, depending on the municipality or the county in which the builders applied for such a permit. It's going to affect everyone, and we can't have it like that. I'm very happy to be from South and East Agder. Both Agder counties have been on the road early to provide their citizens with good digital communication. I dare say that both East-Agder and West-Agder are among the leading states in the country in terms of electronic communications development. That is why Agder is a place I think the government should look into in this context as well. The Digital Age has been working for several years on projects promoting the development of digital communications infrastructure. This is a cooperation project involving two county municipalities and all 30 municipalities in Agder. The project organises the purchase of broadband capacity, fixed telephony, mobile telephony and mobile broadband to municipalities and county municipalities. In addition to carrying out procurement processes, the project provides for contracts providing for more infrastructure development. The social benefits are therefore strongly emphasised in the Agder project. When 30 municipalities and two counties are able to stay together, it provides the basis for operating as a large and demanding customer, which thus provides the basis for development that benefits the public. I'm proud of what's on the government platform from the Right and Advance Party government. I am pleased to present to the government a national plan for electronic communications, on behalf of the Stortinget, but according to the plans and standards that the government itself has outlined in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e325	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the initiative taken from the Left to get to a national broadband plan. A modern broadband network is a prerequisite, as we all know, for a varied business and housing throughout the country. In many cases broadband access is the crucial factor in young people’s desire to establish and settle. Like other infrastructure, there is a clear link between broadband development, industrial development and economic growth. With regard to the use of broadband by the population and the provision of broadband at lower speeds, it is interesting to note that Norway is well advanced in most official international surveys. So we also know that developments in this area and needs are increasing very rapidly. Many countries have set concrete targets for access to broadband capacity for citizens and businesses. The main approach in broadband policy in Norway over the last decades has been a market-based and, as far as possible, technology-neutral strategy. The main focus of the offer is based on market conditions, supplemented by public aid. Compared to most European countries, Norway has a well-developed high-speed network. We must not forget that. We are very advanced, both in terms of broadband provision and the use of broadband by the population. It is also interesting to note that, according to the study conducted by Nexia on behalf of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs in 2013, most people today have the opportunity to obtain broadband at much higher speeds and capacity than they actually subscribe to. But even more important, it is to note that there are businesses and residents who need and have depended on getting a faster broadband than they can get today, and that is our challenge. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to invest in broadband networks, not least in order to minimize the distance disadvantages in our country. In order to create jobs for the future in a tough international market, good broadband access, with good capacity, can be an important prerequisite and the factor that creates the necessary competitive advantage. Not least in order to make use of Norway as a whole, a good capacity for electronic communications will be an important factor for new start-ups in the district of Norway. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also share the concern that was clearly expressed in the joint comments on the digital class division, which a lack of national strategy can lead to. We are therefore concerned about expanding broadband across the country, with a capacity that can make it interesting to live and work throughout Norway. Where it is not commercially viable, we want the State to assume a partial responsibility for the development of the infrastructure. A national broadband plan should precisely determine the role of the State and develop a set of principles and criteria for State sub-financing. A key prerequisite for good customer-adapted development in this area is that the development of electronic communications becomes technology-neutral. It is only when you get the built-up road, the infrastructure, that the customer can choose the vehicle, or in this case the company, that can deliver the best offer. It cannot be the case that broadband development was particularly marked at first, that it was necessary to choose the vehicle or the company that developed the infrastructure. It will be a crucial prerequisite for getting a broadband, an infrastructure that different companies can provide. Thus it becomes the user, the customer, who decides which content provider you would prefer, based on quality and price. This is one of the key issues for which a national broadband plan needs to clarify the prerequisites. In recent years, we have also underlined the importance of well-functioning electronic communications in a crisis situation. This is a development that can take into account both capacity and good backup solutions in the event of accidents caused by extreme weather and fires. Otherwise, I refer to the excellent presentation of the case by the rapporteur and the joint comments on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e342	Think of a fantastic development we've had in broadband in just a few years. There's only one way – we use it daily, more and more, not just as individuals, but also as businesses. It is crucial to create innovation in the future that we have good access. Therefore, the Central Party believes that broadband is a basic infrastructure that is important in order to create a level playing field across the country, and in order to give people real choice to live and work. Technological development has provided entirely new opportunities to create a varied economic development regardless of geographical location. We therefore believe that it is an important public task to ensure equal access to new technology and to ensure a digital universal right, where 100 pst. of the country's households and businesses offer high-speed broadband. It is good that the government will continue to pursue the broad lines of broadband policy that have led to this. But we believe that it is important to take a further promise, so that we ensure that the whole country gets a good offer, even where it is not commercially profitable. It's not just a district problem – it's actually also a city problem. In the last few months, we have seen media lookups from urban areas that have not been connected on the web they want, because the developer does not want to give it there. It is important that the State contributes to ensuring that everyone receives the network they need in their household or at the workplace. These relationships are very unfortunate, and it creates class distinctions when you don't have similarity in access to broadband. It's done a lot in recent years, and a lot of what's done is very good. Even if it's 99.7 pst. where broadband is offered, there are large differences in the nature of the offer. Demand for faster broadband speeds is increasing, and if we are to ensure a stronger innovation and competitiveness independent of geographic location, everyone needs to be guaranteed equivalent eco-services. The parties therefore believe that the same good connections across the country, a network open to all actors on equal terms, ensuring competition on the service and operator side, and that the network must have the capacity to increase demand and speed, are the necessary criteria to ensure a digital universal service. When I'm out to meet business representatives, they say there's still a lot left until the main road on broadband is good enough. In addition to this main road, it is also necessary to ensure the roads to meet the industry and households outside it. It is the most important thing now to be able to create the equivalency needed to enable everyone to use technology for innovation and thus create new opportunities for jobs. With that as a rear carpet, we've been proposing access to high-speed broadband across the country by the Center Party. I am therefore addressing that proposal. The centre party is also not opposed to a national plan to invest in this, and it is enough in an incubation that we do not support it as proposals. I'm going to clarify that in the course of the day so that we know about the voting. Now, as I remember, we should also be involved in that proposal, but in terms of broadband expansion, we have some other angles as well that made us promote our own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e359	The representative of Shelmo Nordås has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e362	First of all, I am very pleased that today the Left is getting an impact on a national electronic communication plan. This is something the whole country really needs to be spared for our time. It must be efficient and time-saving, and we must be forward-looking. It is a pity, therefore, that the Central Party does not participate in this national majority. Speed and expansion across the country are important, but it is not important alone. Electronic communications policy must be much broader and more knowledge-based than it was. The left considers that a national ambition for electronic communications must be based on three main pillars. The first pillar is for us increased access on fast broadband. When we promoted this proposal for a representative, one of our main intentions was to ensure that households, businesses and public enterprises have access to 100 Mbit/s broadband with 90 pst. coverage by 2020. It's ambitious, but necessary and feasible. It is important that the national plan addresses the development of broadband in non-commercial areas, while at the same time putting the market into service with more open networks and increased competition, where it facilitates it. This is what the whole Stortinge agrees with. In the case of the other two pillars, we are in the notes with the Workers' Party. I hope, however, that the Council of State still takes note of our ambitions and takes this into account in the further work of a national plan. It will be to build on the constructive cooperation climate we as cooperation parties have. We in the Left want something more than the whole Biggest agrees with. So the first arrow was increased access to fast broadband. The other pillar is for us in the Left National Core Network. After the storm «Days» it took more than two years for all the damage in Sogn and Fjordane to be done. Two years is extremely long. It is a major challenge in Norway that all societally critical ecosystem services ultimately rest on Telenor’s core network. There are several actors who have their own ground network, but all of these have to rent networks from Telenor to sew their own network together. From a consumer point of view, from a competitive point of view and not least in terms of vulnerability and safety, it is important to have a two-line core network. The actors in the field are very busy with this. They want a network that can follow alternative trajectories. This is the most important thing for safety. I hope the Council of State has noticed this. So the first pillar was increased access to fast broadband, the second pillar to national core network, and the third pillar is enhanced capacity towards the rest of the world. There is a high nutritional potential for data centres in Norway. They need a high level of energy consumption and a high level of data availability to and from Norway. This could be good rural policy and good industrial policy for Norway. The left had hoped that the rest of the Storting could help to facilitate the development of new cables to make this possible. In addition, for privacy reasons, there is a need for fibre cables from Norway and out in the world that are not monitored by Swedish authorities. I have noted that the Council of State has temporarily been concerned with privacy, and I hope that the Council of State will follow this up. I am happy to deal with the plan when it is available for Stortinget. Then we have to dry to take the big grips this field needs. Electronic communications are critical infrastructure in a modern society that Norway deserves, not only business but also most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e381	First, I would like to pay tribute to Terje Breivik and Ketil Kjenseth for promoting this proposal. I think they deserve that. When a unanimous increase today is going to join this – because we are also going to support this – it is also a sign that there is a need for a broad political debate on this issue. But I also interpret the Council's reply as a positive recognition of the initiative from the Left, as the letter starts by saying that it seems to be a positive initiative from the Left. Here the Left has taken the plank and raised an important debate. Over the years we were in government, we thought this was a priority field. Looking at broadband development that has happened in recent years, I believe that the results show that much of the policy has been successful, but I agree that a debate on both the objectives and the use of instruments is needed to achieve these objectives. Here I'm waiting for what the Council of State will say. Given some of the objectives of high levels of fibre networks and high-speed broadband, the Council of State is more restrained as to whether this is something you want to support, so here I'm waiting for what the Council of State will say. I'm going to draw out a couple of important elements. One is the district policy element. It is extremely important for the development of settlements and the maintenance of settlements across the country to be able to operate throughout the country, and infrastructure such as broadband — fibre broadband — is becoming more important and important. I have even visited engineering companies that have been able to lie very far away from central lines precisely because they have had access to broadband, and who say very clearly that if they had not had it, they would not have had the opportunity to lie where they are, because high-speed communications with customers are absolutely crucial. Therefore, this is important in a district and settlement perspective. The other thing I want to record is the part that has to do with decentralised education. The previous government of Kristin Halvorsen set up a separate selection to look at the possibility of using digital services in education. When you have great teachers, great lecturers, it should be possible to use them across the country, and then it will be essential to extend broadband – not necessarily at a speed of 100 Mbps, but to develop broadband across the country – to reach those who are far from the universities, which are the ones that have the greatest need for this type of offer. It's good that a national burial order is coming. I think that's a good idea. I want to draw an example at the same time. In Bergen they have a tomb code. One of the things that people who live in town doubt about is continuous and repeated digging in the streets and that you can't coordinate this work. In Bergen, they have the Gravek Club. Go to the tomb club.no There you will find the Gravek Club, which is just doing the job of making sure that when it is to be dug in the streets of the city – which is, of course, the biggest cost of investing in this type of fibre laying – you do it in a coordinated way. On that occasion, I would also encourage the Minister of Transport to look at the kind of governance that can be taken to ensure that all the economic actors that you really want to coordinate for the benefit of the city population can participate in this. Get inspiration from the Gravek Club when you look at the digging instructions for the whole country. One more point, which is essentially a urban problem and not a district problem, is the cable network. It would have been interesting to hear from the Council of State. In his letter to the Council of State, he said to look at competition and the availability of this. One thing is, as the study to Nexia shows, very many people have access to high-speed broadband, but not everyone is buying the most expensive broadband. These include: because this is a price question. When you have a monopoly situation today for the cable network out to individual households, you also have less opportunities to do so. If the Council of State could answer me, it would be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e396	Thank you for your comments from the rapporteur and from everyone else. It appears that there is a great deal of consensus about what you want, and that there is a very big consensus about how you should approach the goals. I have noticed the views that have emerged, even where there is some disagreement. I think it's useful for our work that we in the government also notice where there are disagreements, because it can stimulate new thoughts and maybe slightly different solutions than what you've chosen before. But essentially, the Storting has agreed over a long period of time on what you will in terms of broadband and digital communications. So the initiative from the left is very positive. We are very pleased with the initiative that has come, and we are also very pleased that the Storting so constructively ends up doing that work. Broadband, or digital communication, is – as many have said – very important for the way a modern society works. That's why it's a very important part of the infrastructure effort that our government puts on, and – for all things – that the last government has done a good job with in the eight years they've been running. We view digital communication as an important prerequisite for further growth and prosperity in our society. As many people have noted, the use of ICT both in business and in the consumer segment, but also in education, is important for access to information faster and better than before. This means that one can communicate between business, consumers and students can get information that they need in everyday life much faster, and for those who want it, one can sit down and listen to short and long lectures that go deep on themes that are important for the development of society – develop physics and chemistry and other things that are important for building a better society in the future. This work is also very important in the public sector. The government attaches great importance to digitising more and more of the public sector, because it provides citizens with better services by allowing them to access the Internet and do things themselves – as we are now working on in the State Road Service, where much of it once had to do in a traffic station to do, such as renewing driving licences, should be done via the network in the future – but also because digitisation means that the public sector works better internally. When we have been on traffic controls with Vegvesen, they have pointed out how much paperwork follows with each check where they detect errors. Instead, they could have had an iPad and more or less just checked. They could have digital access and information about vehicles digitally, and it would significantly improve the control process, not least for the Road Administration staff. Therefore, it is important to look at increasing digitisation in the public sector. It is important to ensure that the infrastructure for this purpose has both good capacity and high reliability — including in this context that one should not be monitored by foreign powers. It is important that the Norwegian authorities control the police work in Norway, and then no other country should come in with neither the police nor the defence sector and take care of it. It's important. But it is also important to stress – in response to Abid Raja’s comment – that Norwegian telecommunications with the rest of the world are conducted through countries other than Sweden, so that if we do not communicate via Sweden, we are not guaranteed that neither Danish nor others are listening to the lines. Therefore, it is important that we cooperate well with our neighbours and are very clear on what expectations we have. But one does not solve anything just by going to countries other than Sweden, it has to solve through good cooperation across borders with all our neighbouring countries. It is important to stress that over a long period of time, the Storing and the Government have established a number of principles that are common to each other. It is that one should have a market-based and technology-neutral policy. A person shall facilitate competition and market-based development. It has turned out that the builders are very dynamic and are competing for ever better solutions. This means that politicians cannot sit and choose winners, because it will often vary according to who is most forward-looking. At the same time, it is important that we contribute from the state to expanding broadband in those parts of the country where it is not commercially profitable. That's why we have a pot of 200 million. kr in the year under review. That is why we have also addressed such things as the excavation regulation, to see how one can cut costs, so that one looks not only at more subsidies but also at cost-reducing measures. I look forward to presenting a case on this to Stortinget on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e413	As I said in my post, I would come back to why we have fallen out of the proposal. I have checked, and we have not actively notified ourselves of the proposal for a national broadband electronic communications plan, so it also supports the Senter party – that is what it is said. Then it's really just a short line to the Council of State on what timetable he sees himself when it comes to presenting such a broadband plan, and what he wants to do with the cases we've seen, among other things. from Bergen and Stavanger and last in Eastfold, where users quite centrally could not connect. Is there anything we can do before we figure out a plan like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e420	Thank you, there are good moments that are being taken up. It is important that, pending a plan from Stortinget, one does not put all the other work on hold. It is therefore important that we ensure that postal and telecommunications supervision, which supervises this sector, carries out its work – ensuring that suppliers have robust solutions, that preparedness measures are in place. There's money from Stortinget, about 58.9 million. kr, in this area which allows grip to be taken. It is important that we stimulate the development of broadband solutions in districts too, where it is not commercially profitable. There, this grant scheme is very important. Then, in this plan – as it will take a few months to make, I will not promise it will come this year, but we will have to do a lot in the next year – go further in the direction that I believe everyone here agrees, and then this plan will strengthen and align the instruments even better for further work then.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e425	I only have one question for the Council of State relating to the national core network number two. Does the Council have a concrete plan on this? What does the Council of State think to do with that? When can we possibly expect work on it to be started, and when can we expect a matter to come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e430	Yes, the discussion about a separate root network number two will be part of what we have to discuss in the plan. But let me say at the same time that when we have stressed that commercial operators are to provide services, we also see that commercial operators are building up the backbone. One sees that more and more places connect a different fiber band, so that one gets more robust solutions. That means that the same way as with the mains is not dependent on one line that's up and going, and if it falls out, that region goes in black. One will always have the ability to route electricity – in this case, information – via different times because different networks that are initially normally built regionally are connected and ultimately form a national network. I don't think it makes sense that the state builds up its own tribal road network as an alternative number two. The important thing is that we make sure that the commercial operators expand their business, and that they are also required to connect them, so that they constitute a robust alternative, all in all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e439	I thank you for the article from the Council of State. There's two things it would have been all right to get an explanation of. One aspect concerns: it does not appear in the decision, but I understand the Council of State that the national plan is intended to be presented to the Stortinget for debate. I understand that it is also the intention of the proposers. It would have been good if the Council of State could clarify that this is how he also understands the decision. The other one concerns the question of price – which I also mentioned in my post, but which I did not feel was answered – i.e. competition in the cable network. It is very clear in the letter of reply from the Council of State that they want more competition. The question is: what does the Council of State think should be done specifically to promote competition in the cable network, thus also contributing to a lower price? There is no doubt that access does not automatically mean using it, simply because the price is too high for many families. We see that prices have fallen, but there is a need for competition in the cable network that is wider than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e448	Let me just clarify: when I talk about the national plan, it's quite natural that the Storting is involved in it before it starts. If it means a big message, or if it means in another form, I'll come back to it, but I think it's natural when we get this going, that the Storting should also have a word in the team. In terms of price: I have the opportunity in my house to have several suppliers of broadband. However, I have not chosen it with the greatest capacity, simply because the need is not present. I think we should respect the fact that people have different needs and thus a different willingness to pay. If a person uses e-mail and Word when he is on the computer, he does not have the same need as if he is an avid player or would like to watch digital TV – all of this – in addition. I think we need to stimulate competition, in the sense that no one takes monopoly prices – that kind of thing. But I don't think a person should have as his own goal that everyone should always subscribe to the subscription with the greatest capacity, because that need is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e457	I take the chance to follow up, because I feel that I have not received a proper answer to my question. Of course, I fully agree that we should not force the entire population of Norway to choose the most expensive broadband available. It's not about my question either. My question is about opening up competition in the cable network, i.e. having the opportunity to offer broadband on the existing cable networks. If you have selected a cable network, whether it is from Get or from Canal Digital, for example, it is located in the household. It will be the reality of large parts of the population of the big cities. As of today, there is no competition in this cable network. That means we're going to be stuck with one supplier. In reality, you have the option to choose Telenor's solution, but there is no doubt about who offers – let's say – the widest broadband. My question is, what does the Council of State think about opening up more competition in the cable network?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e466	Both the Council of State and this government are very happy in competition, so we're going to open up to more and more people to offer their services. That also means that you have the opportunity to press the price. It is likely that the different parts of the country will depend on how well infrastructure is developed and the size of the market. This will have different levels of competition. But what I am quite certain about is that as we move forward – get the infrastructure built – a few more players will also be able to provide services. It will gradually push the price. When you see how much capacity you get for 100 kroner today, compared to just five years ago, there is no doubt that the price level has fallen as seen. Although many people would like to subscribe to the same 300 kroner per month package, which they also get, they get a much better service in that package. It is also important to have conscious consumers. Although one in the big cities is connected to Get or Canal Digital and gets broadband both on TV and on the computer, one often has Telenor and others as alternatives. Consumers must then be conscious and show their power – by switching when they are not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e475	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e491	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e500	The size will now deal with proposals from the Workers' Party on measures in the transport sector. The Committee consulted on the matter on 18 March, when many interesting views were expressed by the various stakeholders in the industry. The road transport industry in Norway has become more liberalised since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Norway as a country has become more and more internationalised, with the result that countries with different backgrounds will compete in the same area. This is a challenge not only for the transport sector but also for welfare policy, justice and other important areas. Discussions are ongoing in most committees on the role of Norway in the future in the areas of multi-country legislation and, in particular, in areas with a high degree of human mobility. Therefore, new ideas and decisions are required to be brought together with other EEA/EU countries, but also to ensure a level playing field for industry in a liberalised and internationalised world. This is what this is all about, and that is why the majority of the committee has taken note of the importance of seeing the field in a much wider context before adopting only one single proposal. The representative proposal has many good and important input that needs to be taken into account in further efforts to create a transport sector that works, with frameworks that everyone can relate to. That is why the motion for a resolution will not be put to the vote, but will be annexed to the Minutes. The majority of the Committee therefore hopes that the minority will be able to join in the proposal to ask the government to come back with an appropriate case, where the whole of the report of the Kabotage Committee, the Workers' Party's proposals and other good input could be backed up by a good plan of action on which to reach a cross-political agreement. Let me – just to show what the rapporteur thinks about this – for example. point 5 of proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. It's like: ‘Requirements that the compulsory toll chips be paid before the means of transport in question crosses the Norwegian border.’ Such a concrete proposal might look a little different when we look at what the Kabotage Committee says about this. Their proposals, as I said, have been on the verge of consultation, and others in the transport sector have proposals that may point to other solutions. I'd like to say a little bit about the Kabotage Committee, as I mentioned. The work on gaining knowledge of such a broad field in the transport sector was already under way during the previous government, when former State Council Arnstad set up a wide-ranging selection, the so-called Kabotage Committee. This sample submitted a comprehensive report four weeks ago, which has now been at the hearing – the deadline expired on Monday, I think. In this report, a number of concrete proposals were put forward which could, either directly or indirectly, relate to some of the points in the draft representative. The majority of the Committee of the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Progressive Party therefore believe that this area requires a much wider review and not least a serious examination of the various proposals and measures presented by the Cabotage Group in the report, in the context of the proposals on the subject under consideration. Therefore, it is important for the majority of the committee to await the hearing opinions of the departmentally deprived group before we knock through any proposals here. The majority of the Committee therefore believes that the proposal from the Workers' Party was too early, and that it only covers a small part of this area for which we need a plan. As rapporteur of the case, I have also been made aware of the fact that various actors in the cabotage group themselves signalled this view to individual representatives in the Labour Party before the proposal for a representative was presented in January of this year, but unfortunately this was only taken for information and not for information. Enough about that. We need to be aware that the government has already taken different measures in this area, and not least it is working to get a lot more in place. With regard to these measures, I am sure that the Council of State will say more about it in its statement. The voltage range is large, ranging from false driving licences to poor design depths, stolen identities, manipulated rest periods, knowledge of cargo and unloading, experience in winter driving, knowledge of chain laying, bombs, pay levels, level playing field, crime, EEA regulation, Schengen, EU – yes ‘you name it’. It is an extensive work that lies ahead of us. Proposals must be linked, it must be a whole, and not least we must include industry arguments and good proposals in the matter. The majority have therefore made the following proposals: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with regard to the follow-up to the work on road safety related to heavy goods vehicles and cross-border transport.’ I would therefore recommend the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e534	It is strange how this proposal for ten measures for a cleaner and safer transport sector is met by the government parties. When we promoted the proposal in this Chamber in January, we were told that this was a proposal that came too late, we should have introduced it when we were in government, but in today's debate it is therefore too premature, it is too early. What is certain is that for the Workers' Party it is high time that these proposals were put in place, and for the industry itself it is urgent. The consideration of our proposal today shows a perfectly clear, clear and classic dividing line between the right and left sides of Norwegian policy – unfortunately, I would say. For the Workers' Party, the fight against social dumping and the crime of working life is about the fact that competition in terms of wages and working conditions not only creates unworthy conditions for the workers who are exploited there and there, not only does it exaggerate serious businesses, but also threatens Norwegian jobs, but competition to run the cheapest and worst, this race towards the bottom, creates unsafe situations on Norwegian roads for all drivers every single day. When we've been prioritizing the fight against social dumping with general measures and professional measures for nine years, it's about social dumping doing something with the whole community around us, for all of us, and not just for the individual migrant workers. Social dumping creates road accidents. The transport industry is threatened by something greater than bad patterns on winter tyres. It's about what's behind basic mechanisms that create the profitability of running idle, breaking rest periods, running with bad equipment, avoiding taxes and taxes. Only measures against social dumping and crime at work will be able to do something about what we see is destroying much of a serious industry. It is a pity – but not particularly surprising – that we see that the government parties do not take the big picture, what is at the root of the problem, and therefore that action against social dumping is necessary, also in order to address the problem of which the government parties have expressed their concern, to life, just traffic safety. Thus, government parties point to the whole issue and isolate the problems in the industry to deal with the introduction of traditional road safety measures. The ten measures we are promoting today are measures we have developed together with the industry. It's an industry that knows where the shoe prints, wants to, has figured out and believes that it could have an impact on the situation we're seeing. Listening to the industry has just been the basis of all the measures we have taken in the last nine years in the fight against social dumping. Today, the government parties could do as we have asked, namely to examine the measures more closely with a view to implementation. So you don't want to do that. But it is good that the government says they should come back with a plan for more road safety measures. Of course, we also support the work of the cabotage group we put down ourselves, but there is nothing wrong with it being clear from today – as the Progress Party also did in the election campaign – that we need and should have a tightening of cabotage rules. Isn't that what the Council of State means anymore? Of the measures we are voting for here today – which unfortunately are not adopted – the proposal on co-responsibility for transport buyers is the most important. It's like if something's too cheap, it's like something's wrong somewhere. Most people know that, but a lot of people close their eyes to it. We need to change that position. We do that only by responsible for the buyer. Regional Protection Officers are another effective, good measure, not only to oversee industries but also to assist the workers on the scissors, in this case in a trailer on the glacier. It is also a measure against which the parties to the government have been opposed in other sectors, and which they unfortunately do not support today either. Even though the worst winter guide is over, we saw the last weekend trailers slip off the road in Trondelag. There will be new winters. However, even in the dry summer, this situation in the transport industry is unsustainable for drivers who are being exploited, for Norwegian uncompetitive jobs, for Norwegian drivers and serious transport operators who pay the price for this. More measures need to be taken to date. I take up our proposals, ten measures that would be a boost for an industry that needs a clean-up. It is a pity that the government parties are still turning their backs on what the problem in the transport industry is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e551	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e554	When discussing this issue, it is important to stress that cross-border transport is growing as a result of increasing trade between countries and that increasing trade between countries is a good thing. We must include that in the debate. It is a prerequisite for further economic growth and prosperity, and I am pleased that the Committee confirms this when we discuss illegal cabotage and social dumping. I agree with the proposers that it is not necessarily that we need more rules and more bureaucracy to solve these challenges. We need to have effective management of the current legislation and not least increased control. I am a little surprised when the representative Trettebergstien from the pulpit is surprised by the reaction that came from the industry and from the government parties when the matter was brought before me. The representative claims that it was surprising that not much had happened from the red-greens in eight years. I've been going through what I've found out about documents from the last eight years. What the red-greens did in eight years was to promote three action plans, including: a new sectoral programme was proposed: the aim was to monitor working conditions, to cooperate on an industry programme, and to ensure that there could be a need to promote serious and good working conditions. In the summer of 2013, the Kabotage Group was set up, and in the 2013 election campaign, when Norway’s Lastebilgeier-Federal had an action across the country, the Minister of Transport came up with a proposal for increased pattern depth on deck, and a mandatory bombing was also proposed last year. That was the four concrete proposals over eight years. Then you promote a representative proposal right after the election, where the industry itself in retrospect says that it was surprised that the Workers' Party, who came to the industry and wished to record this proposal, promoted it when it was so premature. The industry itself says that they asked the Workers' Party to wait until the Kabotage Committee's setting was finished so that you could see this in a larger whole. But the Labour Party did not want to listen to the industry, and drove through the proposal in Stortinget. That's why you can't support it as it exists, because the industry itself has been so clear to us that we have to wait to see this in its entirety, and of course take inward the good work done in the so-called Kabotage Committee. That is the simple reason why we cannot support the proposals that lie here when the industry warns us against it, and that of course we see that there are so many other proposals that need to be made and that the Labour Party has not wanted to include in its proposal. It makes us have to wait. These four proposals came in eight years. In the course of six months, this government and the Minister for Transport have made more than four proposals and have not least implemented many more measures. Increased control is in progress - the number of controls tripled in winter as a result of an additional allocation to the State Road Service. We have more effective controls. Work is in progress on securing the necessary legal bases, so that a vehicle can be restrained. Work is in progress on opening up the use of wheel locks to ensure that road-hazardous vehicles do not continue to run. There are new demands for winter tyres. In the case of parking spaces, we would like to establish several places for heavy-duty vehicles at the checkpoints. We want to open several 24-hour control stations, and we want to develop control technology. We want more coordinated efforts for control bodies. We have said that we want to establish a winter driving licence, so that foreign drivers in particular will gain competence in winter driving. The Safe Trailer project, with which the industry itself has come onto the track, we have said that we want to introduce it. - Here it is. 20 proposals to be put in place and under preparation. It shows that we have a government and a Minister of Transport who takes this seriously and takes action. I am pleased that the industry also sees that this is a government that initiates measures to... [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e565	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e568	The proposal for a representative we are dealing with today addresses important and very relevant issues in putting in place measures that can reverse the development of social dumping and detect documented crime in the transport sector. The fight against these kinds of challenges does not primarily call for new rules and directives, but, as the proposers themselves point to, after more effective enforcement of existing legislation, and better coordination and coordination of the response factors that society has already put into practice today to combat these problems. This is an area where there is a clear need for action. I therefore fully agree with the intention of the proposers to implement and enforce new measures and better coordination in this area. Basically, this matter is also about safe roads and safe drivers. Poorly equipped cars with drivers who do not have the skills to master heavy duty vehicles on Norwegian winter roads are a safety risk that concerns us all. Therefore, it must be a central objective in this work that car combinations on Norwegian roads should be safe and have safe drivers. We are not allowed to go on track with road safety work in this area. This is about life and health for all who travel on Norwegian roads. In the report on cabotage on Norwegian roads, made by the Working Party of State Council Arnstad from the Central Party in the summer of 2013, there are a number of measures that I think are very exciting and well suited to reverse a negative trend. Among other things, it points to the need for increased and sustained cabotage control on the roads. It is good that the Vegvesen, on the initiative of the Council of State, has tripled the number of controls this winter. But we still know that there is still a lot of work to be done to take the many people who are carrying out illegal transport on Norwegian roads. Too many people are still getting away. It is therefore necessary to provide additional means of controlling heavy duty vehicles with a focus on cabotage in particular. Moreover, the level of fines does not appear to be dissuasive enough to reduce the number of offences. NOK 10000 to NOK 15000 does not appear to be sufficient in any way to prevent the presence of combinations of vehicles in their proper condition. Imperfect drivers are sent on Norwegian roads with underequipped vehicles, especially during winter. There is no insignificant responsibility for transport companies when unskilled drivers are sent out on Norwegian roads with insufficient equipment, while we know that the pressure to arrive on time becomes so great that drivers choose to go on chords with the rest periods. We are pleased that the government and the Council of State have now shown that they are doing important work to improve conditions in this area. From the Christian People's Party we see that it can be an interesting and important measure to bring together roadside checks on heavy vehicles and subsequent investigations into a central organisational unit. The aim is to improve the coordination of police, road authorities and customs — preferably through the creation of a new unit with an extended and coordinated area of competence. Through this type of cooperation, one does not have to wait for each other, but stop, check and not least impose sanctions on vehicles from time to time. We are aware that this is already established in other countries in Europe. Such coordination has asked both the lorry industry and the road authorities to put in place. This hope we will be included in the evaluation further. Whether this is going to develop into a separate traffic police force, or whether there is more to better coordination with clearly defined objectives and tasks, yes, it is too early to conclude on already now. Such a unit, in addition to focusing more on such infringements, will also contribute to the uniformity of controls and the investigation and prosecution of breaches of rules by specialised investigators. That is why this is a proposal that the Christian People's Party wants to be further investigated. The work on social dumping and illegal cabotage has begun to be important and essential. We have great expectations that the government will follow up and come back to Stortinget on how this should be done, and otherwise we will refer to our joint comments and the good presentation of the case by the case-filer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e585	It is an important matter that is being discussed today, and it is a complicated matter. Through the hearings and meetings we have had in the Committee, we have been informed that there is a negative trend in many areas – which is accelerating. We see a wagon train rolling in every other ditch, we see illegalities, and we see a wagon train that does not have the condition needed to drive on Norwegian roads. We see social dumping, we get increased challenges for Norwegian transport industry in very many contexts because of the measures we in some areas have had difficulty getting done with, and we see that increased competition is strong from low-cost countries. We also see that we are facing further challenges for Norwegian transport industries with sector exemptions for transport, which will hit much of the transport industry in large parts of the country. It is a completely complicated matter, in which we need to deepen ourselves well in order to get action. There are several references to actions that have been initiated, which we think are very good, both from the previous government with action plans – three action plans against social dumping, and conditions for tyre equipment are strengthened. The introduction of a mandatory toll bar has been adopted. So it's not just this government that has strengthened the budget for controls. It is also done by the former government, and we naturally support a reinforced effort here also from the current government. For evolution, in our view, is still going in the wrong direction. It is very important that we ensure that increased competition in cross-border transport does not create the pressure on pay and working conditions that we see today. The increased pressure is causing us to lose some of the industry that we need around the country, and we see that there are many who work under poor conditions. That's why we have to have a lot of time to ensure a clean pay and working conditions, because the consequence of the opposite is something we don't want. We also believe that it is important to focus on the need for increased trade and transport to be sustainable, because the transport sector accounts for a large share of climate emissions, and that the challenges we face on a global scale and the challenges we face are not favourable. There are many issues that give cause for concern in the transport sector. We see that it's speculating in cabotage. The Kabotage Group now presented its report in spring. I think it was very interesting, and I have great hopes that we will follow up and discuss it well. Social dumping I have mentioned and discovered illegalities. Many of these measures work together in a negative direction. The centre party believes it is important that we discuss it more widely, because actions are constantly being promoted, and as I said, the last major challenge for Norwegian industry is the sector exemptions for the employer fee, which will also be a negative element in the future. As you hear, the Central Party is largely concerned with the measures promoted by the Workers' Party's draft representative. But I have to give a little explanation of vote as to why we do not support the proposal, when it became a proposal to vote on. It was one of the measures that we thought should have been further investigated before a decision was taken, and that was how to ensure that the introduction of a online register was not a heavy bureaucracy. It may well be a trick, but we want it to have been a little bit closer to it. That's just one more point we had an appeal point, otherwise we fully support the other proposals. So the Central Party's wish is that the government, when it comes back to the Storting, has a broad plan and approach in this area. It has to be about both social dumping, the illegalities we see, and how we want to secure the Norwegian transport industry in order to get more goods in an environmentally friendly and healthy way transported around Norway. That's the background for choosing the solution we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e606	I will be very brief and try not to repeat what has been said. Traffic safety is important. Overall employment is important. That is why the Left majority proposal on a case of its own relating to heavy goods vehicles and cross-border transport supports, and I refer to what has been said here by the representatives of the Right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party. What is worth noting is that the party that had the Minister of Transport in the previous government – the Central Party – does not vote in favour of the proposal that the party that had the Prime Minister in the previous government is now presenting. We also notice that these measures have not been promoted in the last eight years. But the left has faith and expects today's government to work for security for everyone who travels on Norwegian roads, both those who work there, and all of us. Then I would like to give an explanation of vote, since the Left is not included in the remarks on a separate transport policy. It is not because we are against increased efforts against transport crime, but because we need to look at the police structure as a whole. The issue of heavy goods vehicles is important, but cannot be looked at alone. The question is whether existing units in the police can be used for this instead of creating a separate unit for this in the police. I therefore look forward to the government coming to Stortinget with a case concerning the follow-up of the work on road safety related to heavy goods vehicles and cross-border transport, and expect that it will be responsible and duly followed up by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e619	First of all, I would just like to say that I think it is good for the proposer to make a proposal like this. Because when we look at what is happening in the transport industry – and it is well described both from the employer’s side and from the employee’s side – we see that there is a competition that is unfair, and we see a emergence of unprofessional actors eating into serious markets. We do not see this just in the field of transport. It also occurs in other areas that are subject to competition, and to some extent are exposed to crime, i.e. criminal competition, for example. in the construction industry. This is something we have been very concerned about since the EEA and EU enlargement took place on 1 May 2004. Ever since then, there has been a knife in Stortinget on how much to take seriously the part about pay and working conditions. At times, those who were the Red-Green government parties have been on the team with the Advance Party. There was a inertia on the part of the Bondevik II Government when it was involved in introducing measures. But sometimes the dividing lines have also gone along the traditional right-left axis, where the three red-green parts have stood on one side, and the rest have stood on the other side. In this case, I would therefore like to emphasise two things. One is that there is a strong need to take the proposals that the Workers' Party has made, in the utmost seriousness and to continue working with them. At the same time, the letter from the Minister of Transport says that a number of points are being worked on. Some measures are considered, some measures are assessed at a later stage. In other areas, this is how far you go – for example: in what is the answer to item number three of the Workers' Party, which dealt with improved control and sanctioning possibilities – that one points to the fact that by today's date you do not have enough opportunity to detain and stop vehicles under Section 36(b) of the Road Traffic Act, and that one considers it unsustainable and intends to do something about it. I'd say that's good! When doing good things, it's also worth considering whether to drop the proposal. Otherwise, we need to clarify how to proceed with the proposal. I see that there are a number of workers' party representatives on the list of speakers further here, so it would be good to clarify also what the Workers' Party believes in the matters in which you maintain proposals, which the Minister says he is actually working on further. It would have been very good. But then I have another big concern. These are proposals that have a tough social dumping profile, and I perceive that there is something both the employee side and the employer side in the transport industry, but not necessarily to the same extent as those who demand transport services in the business sector – and here we clearly see a conflict of interest – are broadly in agreement that we should implement them. That's when I ask for something from the government parties and the supporting parties Christian People's Party and the Left. When you land not to go in favour of the Workers' Party's decision, but instead to promote a proposal to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a case on the follow-up to the work on road safety related to heavy goods vehicles and cross-border transport, I cannot see that social dumping is being taken seriously here. I see that road safety is taken seriously, and that is good. But I don't see that social dumping is being taken seriously. We must remember that this is a matter for the transport industry, whether we want a serious industry, or whether we do not want a serious industry. If the government wants to be a business-friendly government and not a business-friendly government, it must facilitate addressing the problem of social dumping in the transport industry with the deepest and highest seriousness. I am not reassured when Abid Raja says that he is positive to the overall employment situation in the industry. I don't think that's good enough from the Left. We need to establish the principle that we have in Norway, namely that work carried out in Norway is to be carried out in accordance with Norwegian wage and work conditions. If you are not willing by the government to take it into account and do what is necessary to achieve it, the pay of truck drivers will be lower, and the serious part of the truck industry will lose out in competition. It will be anti-business from the government, and it is a policy that I will work towards.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e636	This is a very important debate. It's one of the themes I've spent most time on, and I grabbed hold of at the earliest when I joined as Minister of Transport. I think it's a little strange when some representatives in this room haven't found out that the government has actually done a lot, but it makes it like the proposers have done everything and the government has done nothing. Let me therefore use the post for some adult training. It is important for the government to ensure good competition and orderly conditions in the transport sector. We have a clear goal of getting more goods onto the railway and on the keel. In that case, it is not possible for one to have a transport industry on rubber wheels which is under the competition because they do not comply with the laws, regulations, technical equipment and do not pay taxes, taxes and tolls. It is also important to ensure orderly conditions in order to make it attractive to recruit young people into the truck industry. We need to ensure good job opportunities in the industry, and you can't if you have unprofessional actors in both Norway and the rest of the world who are ruining industry's profitability. Good rules and follow-up of working conditions are also important. It says in our government platform, I wrote it in a letter to the committee – one should have got it with him. We point out that, among other things: police and labour regulators in North Norway have already set in motion cooperation in this area. We're going to draw experiences from it all over the country. Technical requirements and vehicle verification are important. We haven't just tripled the number of checks this winter, we've quadrupled it. The number of vehicles detained has been five-fold. This is about the fact that today's government has increased its investment compared to last winter. There's a very clear difference between who's done a lot to make things happen here. This is also road safety, because when a vehicle is restrained in poor condition, it means that it does not run on smooth roads and cause accidents. I am very pleased that the accident statistics after New Year have gone more in the right direction again – they are now descending, as it has been for a long time, not ascending as it was last autumn. I hope it keeps going. Driving skills, strict requirements, demands for winter driving licences – yes, we have travelled to the EU, we are discussing it with them, we are contacting our neighbouring country, we have started that work. The Labour Inspectorate has been clearly informed that, during the working period up to 2016, they should pay particular attention to the transport industry. The Labour Inspectorate and the tax administration in Bergen are working specifically against the industry to look at the situation. So that's a lot to do – some places are at the test stage to look at experiences before you take it all over the country, or else we roll it out on a full basis. That is why I do not take the criticism that is particularly heavy. I think it is good that the Labour Party is concerned about the problems. If we look at what they could refer to from the previous period, the chairman of the committee took a very good look: almost no action was actually taken in eight years, but a working group was set up to look at the cabotage problem. Therefore, I think it is a little strange that the very parties in the government, who were engaged in setting up a working group, are promoting proposals that conclude on actions before the work of the working group is completed. That is where the representative Michaelsen is absolutely right when she says that the proposal now available says that action should be taken. It's too early. The criticism that we received when the proposals were made, that here comes one and kicks open doors, came because the original proposal of the Workers' Party was that one should consider introducing, now one concludes that one should introduce. I believe that the original proposal kicks in open doors, simply because this government had already started working on almost all of the items on the list. So it is no use for Stortinget to propose something that the government is already working on. I would like the Stortinget to challenge the government for measures where the government has not started, have not become aware or similar. Confirming the government's policy is nice, but there is no decision in Stortinget that the government will continue to work on something. Here it is simply as simple as that one does not always have time to wait for the Workers' Party to make proposals before one starts working in the government. However, let me say that the cabotage work of the group set up by the previous government has been continued by today's government. The hearing period expired on 21 April. There have been seven hearings. We're going through them, and we're going to have a meeting with the working group that made the report to coordinate it. These are many good proposals, and we will look further at how we can implement them. So there's some suggestions there's a lot of disagreement about in the group, which we'll spend a little more time evaluating. This includes both mandatory toll barges, the publication of tariff agreements and proposals for a comprehensive roadside control of a type of traffic police. All of this is already good processes, Stortinget doesn't have to decide that the government is going to do the job we've already announced we're going to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e665	A year ago yesterday, I stood there as a case spokesman for a decision to introduce a mandatory toll bar for heavy goods vehicles, which is supported by a collusion. This has not yet been introduced, and, as far as I know, the regulation has not been sent to the hearing. In the report of the cabotage work group presented at the end of March, all parties are certain to introduce mandatory toll barges for heavy goods vehicles as soon as possible. Their rationale includes: ensuring a level playing field between foreign and Norwegian carriers. What progress is the Council of State taking into account when it comes to the implementation of the one-year and one-day-old decision on the introduction of mandatory toll barges on heavy goods vehicles?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e672	I'm very concerned about putting in place the mandatory toll bar, because it will help ensure that the costs in the toll bars are equally distributed across all the carriers regardless of nationality. This work is under full pressure and will be sent out to the hearing quite soon. What has taken some time is simply that there is some work going on renewing the tolling system. There are some problems with details that also need to be clarified before one can send this out as a final change of regulation, so that one does not end up creating a regulation that needs to be revised shortly afterwards. I think it is very good that the working party also has a click on this. Then there's a total mass that wants it, and I'm very happy that we also have support in that work, because this is a work that we've carried on from the red-green government. We want to make sure that it is properly implemented, and therefore it has taken a little more than six months and not eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e679	The working party is just a little bit impatient. The proposal we ourselves have proposed, and which was adopted one year and one day ago, we will be asking for it until it is effective. In the course of our work on this proposal today, many parties have clearly identified a strong need for enforcement and, not least, better coordination from different authorities in order to bring social dumping and transport crime to life. Governments have identified some important measures, but in some sectors. How will the Council of State ensure that a strengthened coordinated effort between road authorities, police, public prosecutors and the Labour Inspectorate is carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e688	We've already had a meeting where we've gathered the Road Administration and the police to discuss how to better coordinate their controls, how to better share information and how to possibly transfer authority tasks, so that the Road Service can also impose the fines that only the police are allowed to do today, and vice versa. That work is very well going on. It is important that we also involve the Labour Inspectorate in a better way. Here are the good processes going on, and I have the goal that some measures should be implemented as quickly as possible; others we'll probably pick up in a larger one, simply because it's appropriate to work coordinated in the department with this and not everything becomes a single matter. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party in opposition is impatient. For eight years in government, a two-pronged measure was implemented just before one went off. One was to put down a cabotage group, the other was winter tyres on the cab of trucks. In fact, winter driving licences rejected the Workers' Party in government. Then it's a little strange that they demand it as soon as they're in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e697	I have two questions. One is that the Council of State said in its statement that all the proposals promoted by the Workers' Party were working with or looking at. Then I have a question of solidarity. In a broad interpretation, the Council of State says that he will assess this. I would like to ask: has he done something concrete on the issue of solidarity in order to bring this forward in addition to waiting for the working group? In that case, it would have been interesting to hear about. The second is a question of charges and conditions of competition. That's where I think about the user fee component of the fuel. The question is: has the Council assessed whether it could have been otherwise collected, either through toll pits, which are now being introduced, or through a road pricing, GPS marking, for trucks, in order to ensure more equivalent conditions of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e706	That's good questions. When it comes to joint and several liability, we have deliberately not gone out and concluded on things related to cabotage, precisely out of respect for the work of the working group. It would be to short-circuit the process in the working group if we went out and concluded in advance. But of course we have had many meetings with both the truck industry, the carriers and the drivers to get a look at the matter, so that we can conclude more quickly now when we have received the cabotage report. So it's not just in the Workers' Party that you've had meetings with the industry, but we in the government have also had that to a large extent. With regard to the use of diesel, we discuss a great deal of how we can ensure that the charges levied by Norwegian carriers are also reflected in the costs of non-resident carriers. If you have a charging system where Norwegian carriers have to pay a lot for driving licence training, where there are very large fees on some vehicles and on fuel, you immediately have a competitive disadvantage compared to other countries. We're looking at several solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e715	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e720	In the last twenty years there have been major changes on the Norwegian road. Since the EEA Agreement entered into force in 1994, the transport sector has been more liberalised and has faced increasing competition from carriers from other EEA countries. Cross-border transport is currently fully liberalised. It has given us a number of new challenges in road safety, road safety, crime, competitiveness for Norwegian businesses, and not least within the pay and working conditions of workers. The working party has worked for a long time to promote clean pay and working conditions in the transport sector. The red-green government presented its third action plan on social dumping last May. Part of the plan was a dedicated industry programme for road transport. Last August, we launched a 7-point plan, with measures to combat social dumping and contribute to a more serious transport sector. The 7 point plan was followed up by the representative proposal with ten targeted actions, which we have to deal with here today. Where control activities and technical equipment are involved in the vehicle train, the Council of State shall be in favour of increasing the number of controls and the number of running gear that has been banned. It is positive that work has been undertaken towards the EU in terms of skills requirements for drivers in winter driving, so-called winter driver cards. But on the other hand, the enforcement powers have not yet been as good. When it comes to the challenges of social dumping and pay and working conditions, it is disappointing that the bourgeois parties will not follow up on these measures – because there is a link between tidy pay and working conditions, social dumping and road safety. We have seen this in many controls, where foreign drivers on the lusel bean are stopped for violation of the running and sleeping time rules, with slippery summer tyres on winter driving and with dangerously secure loads. I would like to refer to the report from the cabotage group, which came a month ago – that is, before the committee made its decision, so that we have used a lot of what came there. There are a number of good measures in this area to overcome many of the unfair conditions in the transport sector, which increase cooperation between supervisory offices, increase and maintain checks and several measures to combat illegal cabotage. We in the Labour Party expect these measures to be followed up by the government – and we also believe that our measures in the proposal now need to be adopted to ensure orderly wage and employment conditions in the industry, and to increase road safety on the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e734	The government parties use our proposals for a debate on road safety. We agree on that, but that's only half the story. As a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I am disappointed, but not surprised, at the insidious attitude of the government parties to grab hold of the ground and continue the red-green work against social dumping and unprofessional profit-makers, among others. in the transport sector. In the setting, only the Christian People's Party is involved in comments expressing concern about what we see in the pay, employment and competition conditions in the transport sector. Right, the Prom and the Left are tause. That is regrettable, but, as I said, not surprising. We have discussed this matter several times before. As late as March 4th this year, the High Representative of the Transport Committee, Toril Eidsheim, performed to say the following: ‘To turn this debate into a social dumping case is both illegitimate and unlikely.’ She wanted to have the debate on road safety ‘back to the right track’, not make it an ‘unfair’ debate on social dumping. On the other hand, we see that representatives of the government parties consider something quite different in other contexts. Before Easter, it was a meeting of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. The agenda included: a matter of decent working life and the need for cross-border cooperation against social dumping, surprisingly led by a member of the Conservative Party Group. The surprise was no less when an overall Norwegian delegation, including the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party, voted in favour! But at home, it's all about the old stuff. The parties to the Government continue their consistent opposition to all concrete measures against social dumping. Of our ten proposals, the majority are only positive to those on control and road safety. Of course, we are pleased with that support. However, we lack the willingness to follow up the action plans of the Stoltenberg Government, including: with a separate sectoral programme for the transport sector. Without national and international fight against social dumping in the industry, road safety problems will also persist. And it's urgent. It takes time for action to take place. Winter's only six months away. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State is very vague on our proposals on co-responsibility, regional protection agencies, cabotage driving and enhanced information and awareness-raising against social dumping. The majority of the Committee does not comment on them at all. It's hard to interpret this any other way than that the blue-blue won't. We have asked many times: what is meant by what is in the government statement about continuing to work against social dumping? It could have been possible at last to get a concrete answer, not least for those who work and operate in vulnerable industries, where the transport industry is clearly one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e750	What's this really about? I'll give you a concrete example. On Saturday afternoon before Easter, the police in Nord-Trøndelag stopped a car train with a heavy impact. There were fellow passengers on the E6 who responded when the vehicle combination seemed to be able to roll in every turn. Several drivers called in and told me that the vehicle combination wobbled, that it was crooked loaded and that the journey at all looked scary. With three tonnes of side-by-side fault loading and very poor securing of the load, the vehicle combination was in danger of overturning on the E6, our main north-south transport year. The police also received technical assistance from the Car Authority and the State Road Service to check the vehicle combination more closely, and the inspectors were simply shocked by what appeared under the vehicle combination’s capella: several pallets of formic acid, which were about to slip out of the pallet they were packed on, and many barrels of epoxy floor paint, which both end up under the category of dangerous goods. All combinations of vehicles carrying dangerous goods shall be marked, inter alia: to enable emergency situations to act correctly in the event of an incident. This wagon combination drove for a carrier who could tell that the wagon and driver were leased in from a third party that had free capacity. The goods had 10 to 12 consignors and between 10 and 15 receivers. Some recipients trade both you and I at home in everyday life, and in addition, the public health service was one of the recipients. The wagon train was registered in Estonia, had Russian driver and Estonian papers. Neither of us would have met this equipassion in a turn – nor any of the people who sent the goods, or who would have received it. It was simply deadly. And it is of course the driver's responsibility that the load is properly secured. But when the order goes through so many terms, and everything is controlled by price, this is one of the horror examples of how it can go. There is a link between social dumping, co-responsibility and road safety, and the right-wing parties cannot ignore it. There is a great deal of consensus about this reality between the social partners and the economic operators who carry the goods safely and safely on our roads. We in the Workers' Party expect the government to implement measures that work and that are responsible for the carriers and the goods owners, as they have promised the voters. The Regional Manager of the Norway Lastebileier-Verbund in Trøndelag states directly that he will have the same responsibilities in the transport industry as in Norwegian construction sites, introduced by the red-green government. The picture drawn by the representative of Hofstad Helleland is simply not correct. Serious economic operators want effective action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e763	Like the representative Eidsvoll Holmås, both I and the Workers' Party are pleased that the government has implemented some road safety measures related to the transport sector, but we also note that it is very careful to give signals of restrictions on cabotage legislation and other measures to prevent social dumping. In fact, this is not just about road safety; it is about much more. In the cabotage area, many crimes are committed every day. This is a crime that undermines the serious part of this important industry, and these parties in the industry have been very sorry. In the bus industry, there is not even an overview of the extent of cabotage, except that it can be seen that the Norwegian tourist industry is in the process of being wiped out. What do you do, for example, in this case? an emergency situation? Should people be evacuated by loading people on randomly passing foreign buses and coach trains? In this case, too, everything is related to everything. Public service is one of the instruments that can and should be used when required to ensure serious employers conditions of competition to live with and workers to live with. General public services have been used in other sectors, such as: the paint industry and the construction industry. Now you see the contours of a tourist industry that is about to be wiped out, and an emergency situation that is of concern. The social partners have been and will be restrictive in using public service as an instrument. But we will point to this as a good tool. The employee organisations are in favour of this, and serious employers should also follow up on this matter. In the report handed over by the Minister of Transport from the Kabotage Committee, there is a strong consensus on several measures. Then we see in the Workers' Party no reason to think more. Now you have to go from an assessment phase to action. It's urgent! The summer season is a season for the transport of people on tour. Now we expect the government to take action and take action. The proposal by the minority in the Committee has omitted the word ‘estimate’, which was in the original proposal, precisely because the time has now come to introduce, without any evaluation. Now enough has been assessed, and the Workers' Party expects the government to show action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e774	In the last few weeks we have been able to read in several newspapers about the increasing problem of labour crime and operators operating in the grey market, with partly legal and partly illegal activity. And today we have the opportunity to make decisions to stop this. I have to admit that when I read the comments of the members of the government in the media, I got a hope that there was a signal that the Right Party and the Advance Party were finally about to take social dumping and labour crime seriously. Finally, it seemed as if they were willing to confirm that social dumping is such a big problem that one has to fight it on a broad front. But once again, unfortunately, we see that the Right Party and the Progress Party say that they are concerned about the problem, but when it comes to political will and action, the enforcement force disappears. As a member of the Justice Committee, I think it is very important to look at better coordination. This is why the Labour Party underlines the need for enforcement of today's legislation, stronger sanctions and a strengthened coordinated effort between road authorities, police, prosecution authorities and the Labour Inspectorate in matters that we are dealing with today. If there are no consequences for those who purchase services from the unaccountable and irresponsible carriers, the demand will still be there. As long as those who buy services from companies that use their added services fail to pay tolls and fines and hire drivers if they are taken with them too badly equipped vehicles, and can safely ‘too's hands’, there will be those who are willing to buy transport services from these companies. Therefore, co-responsibility for transport buyers is so important to introduce. And that's why we're positive about supporting a public policy, if the industry itself wants it. It is therefore disappointing that the government party does not follow up on words of action and concrete action. It is no longer than two months since the leader of the Transport Committee, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, said the following: ‘The problem must not grow too large. We must take it with us and make all stages in the transport chain contribute.” Linda C. Hofstad Helleland said this, which means that those who buy the services must also take responsibility for ensuring road safety. Where is the force of action now? Today, there is a possibility to vote in favour of proposals that have just seen this. But the government party and the majority in Stortinget don't do that. That's what I think is a pity. With this, the majority in Stortinget is failing the serious businesses that fight every day to survive in an industry where the unprofessional actors have too much room for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e794	The most perceptive thing in today's debate must be those of the government parties who have largely spent time talking about the previous government, and what the previous government did and did not do. The Chairman of the Committee Hofstad Helleland had five minutes of speaking time and spent all the allocated minutes only racqueting over the previous government – not a single measure on what she, the Right and the Advance Party would do. No action was launched by the representative of Hofstad Helleland. And one disagrees with the points proposed by the Labour Party – will at least not vote for them, with slightly different reasons. It's kind of okay; it has to be respected. But what will the representative of Hofstad Helleland and the government parties do? What are their concrete measures to overcome social dumping and crime in the transport sector? So the committee leader in rolling order made it like the previous government didn't do anything to combat social dumping. The action plans against social dumping have been presented by the previous government. It could probably have been done more, but it is not possible to present it as if we had a government that for eight years did not do anything about this problem. What does the representative of Hofstad Helleland, Right and Advance Party think? What are their concrete proposals on how to deal with these challenges? We have barely heard one measure throughout the debate. I would then challenge the chairman of the committee on one proposal - the introduction of mandatory heavy-duty bombers, which should have been introduced a long time ago. It took too much time during the last government, and it obviously takes too long now under this government. This is no criticism of the government. The Minister of Transport, in particular, has made such an effort to argue that he considers any question raised, either from the Spokesman's Chair or in the form of written questions, to be a criticism of the government. This is not a criticism of the government – now I say it again – it is a question: can the committee chairman, the Minister for Transport or others answer when there will be a mandatory piece for heavy vehicles? I was at a meeting in the direction of the Norwegian Truck Car Association before Christmas together with State Secretary Hoksrud, and he said that this would now quickly come into place. Four to five months have passed, and it is not yet in place. It took too much time during the last government, and it takes too long now. When will the mandatory heavy-duty bomb block be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e809	First of all, I want to say to the previous speaker that I wish I had a clear answer as to whether it will be implemented quickly, but we both know that it depends on a number of challenges – which were worked with by the previous government, and which one is working with now and trying to find a quick solution. In the proposal, the Labour Party asks the Government to prepare and submit to the Storting measures to halt the negative developments in the transport sector. Claiming that the government is turning its back on the problem, as the representative Trettebergstien did introductoryly, is both misleading and strange. The government has done more in this field already than the Labour Party has in eight years. The Minister for Transport has done well for all the different actions that have been implemented so far and for which there are plans, in several areas. However, in some areas, as pointed out by the Labour Party, careful evaluation of the measures required and, where appropriate, the possible unintended consequences are required. An example is in the travel industry, where rapid action can clearly bring new negative consequences. An important work has begun, and I am convinced that the Cabotage Group's contribution and government's work will enable the challenges now to be addressed in a good way where the whole industry and the different parts of the business are being taken care of. Finally, I would like to remind the representative of the Labour Party, who commented on my previous comments, that I am still thinking that traffic safety is so much more than just social dumping challenges. We want a good follow-up of road safety linked to a heavy car and cross-border transport, and we look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e818	I feel that there is a great deal of agreement in this Chamber that we should have as much equal competitive conditions as possible in the transport sector. This means that there should be good and proper working conditions for those working in the industry and that it should not be possible to avoid Norwegian laws and regulations. That's why I'm a little surprised by the strange angle we've got in this debate. After eight years of a red-green majority government, an attempt is made to create a picture of the current government not wanting to implement measures or fulfill promises. It's very special, all the time the outgoing government largely carried out investigations and put in place minimal measures to meet the challenges. In its articles and responses, the Council of State has shown many important actions that have been or are being undertaken. Some of the measures are consistent with some of the proposals contained in the draft representative. However, it is also necessary, in our view, to make an overall assessment and to ensure that the measures proposed and to be implemented are effective and that they are actually feasible. Strict rules will require effective penalties. The possibility of restraining vehicles is for investigation in the department and will perhaps be one of the most effective instruments we can implement. The organisation of increased controls, as the government has already done, is important to reveal those who do not follow the rules. Increased controls must be followed up by several sites, extended opening hours at control stations, new control technologies and, in particular, strict fines for infringements. Then we can have effective management of the legislation we actually have, which also means a great deal of co-responsibility for the transport buyers. In my view, the co-responsibility of transport buyers is also an important measure to ensure that the legislation is followed up in a good way. Project Safety Trailer, for example, is an important awareness raising, an important attitude-building work, which the Road Directorate is now rolling out across the country. We will be constructive and follow up on the good work already undertaken by the government and seriously consider all constructive proposals. But then it has to be done in a proper way, where the proposals are sufficiently elaborated and action taken in the context, so that we are sure that what we are doing is legally sustainable and has the effect we want. It is therefore strange that the Workers' Party does not have time to wait for the report from the cabotage group until they conclude. In their letter of reply and in the article today, the Council of State has outlined how the department works on this. Here there will be many good proposals in the future, which the Labour Party and others themselves did not promote when they were in government, but for which they are now given the opportunity to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e827	This is a bit of a surrealistic debate, because the government and government parties have been very clear that we should have orderly relations in the transport industry. It is important to ensure recruitment; it is important to ensure good and healthy competition. We have identified a number of measures to achieve this. When the representative Myrli evidently woke up from his sleep, the chairman of the committee had already framed a bunch of measures for what to do. I also show that the government sent out a press release on 5 March this year, following the debate that the committee chairman raised, on road safety and vehicle trains, where we listed more than 20 points that would affect the debate we have now. It's a little strange that the Workers' Party consistently ignores all of these points and later as if nothing happens, when the fact is the opposite. In reality, this debate is becoming a framework criticism of the policy that has been pursued over the previous eight years. Because at the same time as the former government boasts that they have presented action plans, they describe a status quo situation that is quite horrific. It only shows that the action plans they put forward in this case have had no effect. I just want to remind you that there are none of the measures that the red-greens have taken, as this government has iced up. One would almost think that we discussed here proposals that asked the government to stop a lot of projects that the red-green ones started. In fact, it's the opposite. The red-green started almost nothing. This government has started a lot. What's the discussion, or what we can be concrete about, is the cabotage group. The government has followed up the work of the cabotage team, we have sent the matter out at the hearing, and we are now evaluating the recordings. So it's not negative, it's positive. There are no measures from the red-green ones that have been stopped, because they did not exist. Action plans without content do not impress me, unfortunately. We've notified a number of arrests, we're following them up, we're implementing. Then it becomes a little pointless that when we have already said that we are going to work on a winter driver's license, the Workers' Party still requires the Stortinget to adopt a work that the government is already doing. I just don't understand the point. And that's why the majority of people don't support the proposals as they stand, and simply refers to the fact that the government is already working on all of these points. It is an advantage if the opposition's proposals are ahead of the government's work, and do not come after. Let me remind you that a few of the points that the Workers' Party is now proposing were themselves opposed when they were in government. What I challenge the Workers' Party is to explain what is new information about demands for winter driving licenses, now compared to when the red-greens rejected such requests and demands from e.g. The party of progress in the previous period. For some new information it must be when the Workers' Party now believes that it can be adopted, while they thought it was impossible to implement it in the previous period. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e838	Yes, this is an absurd debate, and it clearly shows what I said in my first post, that the government does not see the root of the problem in the industry. The Minister of Transport and the spokespersons of the Right and the Progressive Party only talk about actions within the Ministry of Transport, road safety measures, not the causes of the problem: social dumping. We presented three action plans, 40 actions. They have been evaluated, and what Fafo said was that the measures that have been most effective are those that the Progress Party and the Right spent nine years in this room, day after day, voting against. So the condition would have been worse if the Progress Party and the Right had got it as they wanted. Our package of ten measures today is a comprehensive package, which is about much more than road safety measures. All that the state council has done, that goes on deck and winter driver's license and all this, is really great – we're supporting it. But we need something more, we need something that takes the root problem. When the councillors and the spokespersons say that we are knocking open doors, I wonder: Where is the work with a joint responsibility for the transport buyer? Are you for, or are you against? And if the collective agreements are to be published, will you also make this a joint responsibility for pay and working conditions? Yes or no – where does it say? Will you tighten the cabotage rules? A whole industry says it's needed. We don't need any more investigations to see it. Will you turn around and now go to introduce regional protection agencies into an industry that needs it hurt? Yes or no? Does the Progress Party and the Right see that social dumping and unprofessional actors are in the process of destroying the serious part of the transport industry? Yes or no? If no, what is it then that the Right and Advance Party have understood that the transport industry and a combined industry have not understood? How many examples of unworthy relationships do you need before you realize what the problem is? But if yes, if you agree that that is the problem, why not the government parties around the world agree with the comments in this attitude that say that free competition should not be at the expense of tidy pay and working conditions, and with social dumping as a consequence? Why not? Don't you agree? I believe that this debate and the suspension and discussion of the whole issue clearly demonstrate that the government parties have a well-known and clear right-wing policy. It is a policy that does not see social dumping as one of the main challenges, not only for the transport industry and the Norwegian labour market model, but for the entire Norwegian welfare system. The right-hand side will continue to conduct recognizable right-hand policies and vote against our proposals, which would have been cleared up in the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e847	It's obvious that we're trotting on some sore toes here, and there's a big difference between the red-green government that figured out, and this government that's implementing. So it is correct that I had some comments about the Workers' Party's handling of this matter. That's because the industry is very concerned about it. They come to us and say that they gave good advice to the Workers' Party in preparing this proposal, but warned the Workers' Party. They asked if they could wait for the Kabotage Committee to be set up, and they had a more comprehensive approach to the problem than the narrower approach in this proposal. We listen to the industry and say, OK, here we have to look at the whole thing, and we want to take along the good work that this sample has done over time, when we promote an overall approach to this matter. Then I must say to my good co-representative, sir. Myrli that I almost have to complain that I woke him up – or maybe I couldn't get him out of his deep sleep. Because if he had followed, he would know that there were almost 20 measures that I raised here, as the minister has already started. There is nothing that pleases me more than to be able to tell what this government and the Minister of Transport are doing in this field, so I am happy to repeat it, and hope now that the representative Myrli will follow closely. Point 1: increased control. The number of checks this winter has tripled. Point 2: We have more effective controls. Point 3: We're working on securing the necessary permits in the law, so that you can hold back the vehicle. Point 4: We are now working to open the way for the use of wheel locks to ensure that dangerous vehicles do not proceed illegally after verification. And further: We have made new demands for winter tyres. We establish several heavy-duty vehicle parking spaces at the checkpoints. We are now considering opening the control stations 24 hours so that drivers cannot speculate about crossing the border. We're developing control technology. We're looking at winter driver's license. We are now working with Safety Trailer – an initiative that has come from the industry itself. The whole difference is that the red-green government worked out, the created action plans, it dropped samples – this government implements, we take action. We promise to come back to Stortinget with an overall approach to how we will meet the road safety challenges, illegal cabotage and social dumping. I am happy to deal with that matter when it comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e858	Finally, there are differences between governments that are investigating, and governments that are implementing. My Committee, the Labour and Social Committee, which is responsible, inter alia, for: for social dumping, doesn't have meetings for the time being, because we have no issues. To Höres Eidsheim, who is now saying that this matter is about something more than social dumping: yes, I fully agree with that. Eight of our ten proposals are about something else, but two of them are about social dumping. And so that's not what Eidsheim said from this pulpit in March, because then it was categorized that taking up social dumping in this context was 'both illegitimate and inconceivable'. It goes well into what is the history of the Right Party and the Progressive Party in the fight against social dumping. The two parties voted against the first action plan, which came in 2006. They have voted against the right of access for trustees, they have voted against the duty of care and information. They have voted against the introduction of Norwegian conditions in municipal tenders in line with the ILO Convention 94, they have voted against tightening employment rates between enterprises, they have voted against a seven-point strategy to strengthen employee rights internationally, they voted against Action Plan No. 2 against social dumping, they have voted against joint and several liability, they have voted against regional protection agencies, they have voted against getting the first big-time report on working life in this Chamber, and they were not any particular follow-up to Fafo's evaluation of the two action plans that have been against social dumping. When the State Council of Solvik-Olsen says that the government is working on all the points in the Labour Party proposal, and that the government is clear that it does – no, one is not clear about it, because the government is consistently not responding to questions of social dumping. I've read the Council's letter of reply. It states that the letter has been prepared in cooperation with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Justice, because parts of the proposal affect the responsibilities of the two Councils. The Stortinget must also be able to take it for granted that as long as Solvik-Olsen does not say anything else, the silence surrounding measures against social dumping is also adequate for the views of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the matter. It is not reassuring, to say the least, and it has to be supportive of both the industry and employee organisations. We look at the consultation documents submitted to the Committee when this matter was being discussed, that Norway's Lastebileier-Verbund links road safety, crime and social dumping. The Transport Workers Association does the same. The Professional Traffic Association does the same. So the question is, how long should the government spend? The last government did too little too late. Now, when we make suggestions, it's too soon. When does the government come up with its answers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e870	For one of those who have been so fortunate to have some of the stages in the important work against social dumping, there is no doubt that under the previous government both proposals were presented, followed up proposals and implemented measures. One of the challenges facing the previous government was that measures against social dumping were largely voted against by the then opposition in Stortinget. Now more and more attention is being paid to the importance of social dumping, not just for the reasons for which we have argued all along, but because there are increasingly elements of crime and other unprofessionalism in the world of work. That is also why, when we propose measures to combat social dumping, this time targeted specifically at the transport sector, not only on the labour market, but also on the employers' side, there is a broad consensus that something needs to be done here, with the support of most of the concrete measures we propose. Both the Evening Post and the Dagbladet have recently had a revealing look at the extent of the social problem this is developing, as it basically destroys not only the working conditions of people in Norway, which are important enough, but also undermines Norwegian serious work in competition with foreign countries. It is therefore striking that when a Document 8 proposal is promoted with concrete action on it, and we are asking for action against social dumping, road traffic measures are being blackened in an attempt to derail the debate. Here the Minister of Transport cannot hide behind his formal territory, cf. the letter to which the representative Lise Christoffersen just referred, which was on behalf of several departments concerned. So we have put forward a number of proposals. We have much support from all sides of the table: owners, drivers and employees in the transport industry. We're going to follow up this case. But I see something black on developments in relation to work against social dumping in general if this is to be the standard of attitude towards social dumping in the future. Because it's de-dramatized, it's actually rejected at all by current government parties. It may appear that the opposition will have to take responsibility for ensuring action against social dumping in the future. The disappointing setting makes this very clear. In fact, it is – and it is to this extent good – that the government parties are involved in asking for an appropriate follow-up to the work on road safety, and that we have had some impact on it. But it can't be that social dumping is acceptable only on proper winter tyres.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e881	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e884	The tightening up of control activities by the government is good. We support it. But it would be better for the workers who are being exploited, who run these trails that are being stopped, it would be better for other drivers on Norwegian roads who are at risk, and it would be better for the social economy too if we had to increase control and supervision every year instead, could take the problem at the root and stop it before rolling into Norwegian roads, by getting cleaner conditions in the industry. Then we need action against social dumping. I ask again, because I get no answer: are the government parties in principle for or against co-responsibility and solidarity? Are the parties to the government in principle for or against the introduction of regional protection ombudsmen? I think it is sad that none of the members of the government parties in the Labour and Social Committee or the Minister of Labour are taking part in the debate today, but it is probably comprehensive as to what kind of view the government has on the priority in the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e891	Both the Minister of Transport and the committee leader claimed that I had slept. I can assure the congregation that I have not done so. To put it this way: if I had done it in this room, it would have been heard, and it obviously had not been in line with the Rules of Procedure's ban on noisy expressions in the main hall! I have not criticized the government for what is done in the fight against social dumping. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Transport and the Government really wants to fight social dumping and crime in the transport industry. I have heard what the Minister for Transport has said in several lectures, read what he has said, both he and Secretary of State Hoksrud. I have no problem saying that I fully support what the government is doing. What I have criticised the government parties for is that in today's debate they have been very retrospective, very little dedicated to engaging in constructive dialogue with the Labour Party and others on forward-looking measures to bring this problem to life. We need to look forward. A number of things have been done over the last few years, but it is in the fight against social dumping that is in the fight against tax evasion: if you take action, there are after each new loophole. If you close the loophole in tax law, those who have it will find new loopholes. This is also the case in the fight against social dumping. We need to be aware that this is not something we are just discussing in Norway. It is a major problem in Europe – I think almost globally – with crime and social dumping in the transport sector. There are major challenges, and action is taken — well and well — but new problems arise, and this calls for other and new measures to be taken. We have to keep working, constantly bringing forward new measures, all the time implementing new measures to bring this about. We will never be finished in the fight against social dumping and crime. We have to be in the forefront all the time, all the time implementing new measures. It's rarely wise to look back. So my advice to the government parties is: Look forward! What has been done is done – look ahead, find solutions and implement!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e904	It is produced, especially by the committee leader, as if we from the Labour Party are too fast. It's a little unfamiliar to get the label that we're going to act too fast. It is produced as if we have to wait for the cabotage group, and that Right has to talk to the industry, and the industry has said that they have told the Labour Party that the Workers' Party must take it easy. I don't recognize myself in it. I'm talking to the industry – or the industry has spoken to me and to the Workers' Party's fraction in the Transport Committee – and I haven't got the impression of anything like that. When we come up with our proposals, it is based on – whether this is premature, I do not know – that there is a report on cabotage on the road in Norway, as this cabotage group has presented. The suggestions we've come up with, they're at the bottom of the proposals that have come here. What is a reality is that parts of the employer's website will not be jointly and severally liable for the ownership of goods. Employer side parts will not have regional protection that can be out there and can capture and detect any snubness. If that's the case that the Right Party and the Progress Party will refuse to introduce joint and several liability and will oppose the introduction of regional protection laws in any case, I don't think it'll be good enough to go ahead and talk more about the industry and quality insurance and come back with something more later, if one doesn't go into and bring something to these two key areas, even if in some other fields it has happened and happens very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e911	Now we're not going to take this word exchange too far, but the case to which the representative Christoffersen repeatedly refers was a matter of road safety in general. Then it was unfair to sneak it into that it was primarily about social dumping. That's what I'm still saying. But what we are dealing with today is new measures to combat social dumping and crime in the transport sector. Then it's unthinkable to draw my motives into doubt. It is clear that all measures need to be assessed in the future, including measures against social dumping. The most important thing now is to get good follow-up of traffic safety associated with heavy cars and cross-border transport. The good work is already in progress, and I feel confident that we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e918	There are actually two parallel debates in this Chamber on this matter. One is a road safety debate, on which the Minister for Transport has good competence and commitment, and on which there is a very large consensus. There are very few politicians, I think, both in the staging room and otherwise, who believe that there is a good deal of tyres with too low pattern depth, equipment that is not in order, breach of road safety regulations, etc. It is generally accepted that good control of this ensures traffic on the roads and ensures life, passengers and cargo. The political conflict is about the greater picture, about social dumping, about the rules of the labour market and about the business environment. One could imagine that there was a conflict between workers and employers, and the Progress Party has a 40-year tradition of fighting against laws and regulations that dampen businesses and business activity, but the truth is that this is where private operators, Norwegian companies, investors, owners and managers are hit as hard as drivers. Because when you have to compete with companies that have drivers who do not pay taxes, who do not respect rest periods rules, who do not invest in safety equipment and who do not pay for training, you are unlikely to be businessmen as well. So here's companies that invest millions of dollars, teach their drivers, follow rules and pay taxes, which literally get caught up in the path of unprofessional actors. And that's the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen has now had an invitation to take part in, but where he largely responds with wheel locks and the number of checks and fails to enter the substance. It would have been interesting to hear if it was such that Ketil Solvik-Olsen now regrets that the Progress Party has been against many of the measures that Lise Christoffersen so brilliantly summed up. It is true that after six months in government, many of these measures have not yet been reversed. Is it that it was wrong for the Progress Party in all these years to be opposed? But most of all, what will the government do in the future with solidarity, with regional protection agencies, etc.? There is a discussion of the future, not about the eight years that went under Jens Stoltenberg, or the five years that went under Bondevik II, or the 16 years that went under Einar Gerhardsen or Oscar Torp, but about the future. What are we doing to create a better society in Norway? After six months, Ketil Solvik-Olsen will have to start taking part in that debate. He is cordially welcome to discuss the future, not just the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e929	He'll have a chance to do that now. Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen has signed up on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e932	It is true that there are different parts of the debate that go on different topics. Some themes are a lot about road safety, others about social issues. But the Labour Party itself has said in the beginning of the debate that this is interrelated, so action is about road safety, within the Workers' Party's proposal. So I think it's a little strange that they themselves think they can discuss both things at the same time, while the government parties only have to discuss one, that is, social dumping. In my article – and I feel that many from the government parties have done the same in their posts – I have pointed out many steps that are being worked on, which are about social dumping. But what we think is a little strange is that the Workers' Party is promoting a lot of proposals a few months after they left the government, which they didn't even take the initiative in eight years to propose to the government. I agree that we must look ahead, because that is where we must shape the policy. Then we have shown a number of measures we work with. I have referred to a press release that we sent out, which gives a summary of these. So there are a number of measures that the Workers' Party would not implement when they were in government, but that this government is now in the process of doing. I am very pleased that all the parties in Stortinget are pleased that we have quadrupled the control of the vehicle train and doubled the number of vehicle trains that are banned from driving. But it had to be a new government to do that. It is a little strange when the representative Giske says that everyone has agreed on a better inspection of the vehicle, that one did not carry it out during the previous government. So it had to change the government. As far as social dumping is concerned, I mentioned in my post that we have deliberately sat and waited for the cabotage group, but not without doing anything else. We've had a lot of meetings with different actors, with the Professional Transport Federation, with Norwegian Transport Workers' Union, with NHO Logistics and all the others to get a point of view, but we've deliberately not gone out and concluded and promoted something in Stortinget, just to respect the cabotage group, and to respect those who have sent hearings. I thought it was a bit of a point when the previous government put this group down, that one was actually going to get a serious treatment, and not just squander it away in a political game from the Workers' Party. But I also mentioned in my post that although the cabotage team has been working, we have initiated a number of actions around the governmental bodies working on this, in particular the Labour Inspectorate – the Labour Inspectorate together with the police on the way they operate controls in North Norway, the Labour Inspectorate and the Tax Administration in the way they operate controls in the West, to make experience of this. If you have not received these statements from the government parties' contributions to the debate, I think it says a little more about a debate technique in which the Workers' Party should not be the curious party as one says, but on the contrary drives a swordsmanship, as the Vice-Chairman of the party put it on TV not long ago. We're going to learn from history. That's why it's important that we see what happened. We've learned that we're not going to do our whole thing, we're going to promote concrete action. The best example of this is wagon train checks. The next examples will keep you going in Stortinget when things are to be adopted – and we will now receive a detailed legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e949	The representative Lise Christoffersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e952	It is to a large extent positive to hear that the Solvik-Olsen State Council is now – finally – at least confirming that one has seen a link between social dumping and the road safety situation on Norwegian roads. And road safety is within the Workers' Party's proposal, of course it is. No one in the Labour Party has said that we should only discuss social dumping, but we must also discuss it. And it's not about waiting for the cabotage group, it's about transferring measures from other industries that are already in place there and that have had demonstrable effect, but it's therefore measures that the Progress Party and the Right have consistently voted against. So the reason that nothing comes from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to our committee is probably there, that one is still against what works against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e958	I would like to thank Mr Stortinget for the debate we have had. I might say that it came out a little bit of the track that the committee had set up. I feel that many of the posts that have come from the Workers' Party have been only about social dumping and why the government parties have not discussed or taken a stand on anything in that area. So then I want to repeat some of what I said in my first post, when we started the debate, because there I just took this up. I then said that the road transport industry in Norway has become more liberalised since the conclusion of the EEA Agreement and that Norway as a country has become more and more internationalised, with the consequences that then arise. Where countries with different backgrounds compete in the same area, it is difficult. This is a challenge, not only for the transport sector, but also for welfare policy – I hope the Workers' Party heard the word ‘welfare policy’ – the justice field – I hope those who were concerned with justice and crime heard it – and other important areas. The discussion is ongoing in most committees with regard to Norway’s role in the future in the areas of multi-country legislation, and not least in areas with a high degree of human mobility. Therefore, new ideas are required, new decisions are required to be co-ordinated with other EEA and EU countries, but also to safeguard business – and I repeat to point out – to ensure that industry is as competitive as possible in a liberalised and internationalised world. That is what this is all about, I said, and that is why the majority of the committee's country is concerned with the importance of the need to look at the field in a wider context, before only individual proposals are adopted. So when I hear that someone says that we are not concerned about seeing this case, it is going to be directly wrong. But we must be very careful that in this internationalised world – in this world where we depend on the rest of Europe – we must never make this a debate that is about making AS Norway a protected enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e969	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e985	Internationally, there has recently been an increased focus on possible misuse of resources, on the trend of overdiagnosis and overtreatment that makes people sicker, not healthier. The health service in Norway represents a security for its citizens, while the Norwegian health service has an internationally high status and a good reputation. Talking about the fact that this health service, the very symbol of the welfare community, would offer us too much and perhaps harmful services, seems incomprehensible and perhaps contradictory. In Norway, it is believed that more healthcare services are better than less extensive. However, that we have increasing challenges in Norway with regard to over-treatment and over-diagnosis, we need to address ourselves soon. Overdiagnosis and overtreatment are thus absent in the debate on health policy in Norway. It is rare for us as politicians and ombudsmen and women to engage for individuals who are exposed to over-treatment, who receive more treatment than is recommended from current knowledge. We all tend to get engaged and interested in stories about individuals who have not been treated or who have not been treated, or who have to wait too long for treatment, due to price or priority in health services. The Health Directorate of Norway has recently delivered a report on the topic of overdiagnosis and overtreatment in Norway. Evidence of significant differences in practice in studies, referrals, admissions and drug use has been found in Norway. Reference is also made to a general increase in the use of laboratory analyses in Norway, with consequences of both a medical and economic nature. Health regions with well-developed laboratory facilities take several tests per capita compared to regions with less well-developed facilities. This found indicates that the supply of a service generates demand. What is the right level when it comes to laboratory analysis can be discussed, but the director thinks that new analyses should not be added as a non-negligible offer without going through and seeing if there are other offers that can then be removed. Changing laboratory limit values for the detection of disease results in many more people becoming patients. The directorate believes in the report that such a change in a definition of a normal value of a sample should occur after in-depth processes, in which one thoroughly discusses the consequences of unnecessary illness of large groups. The Health Directorate shows that there has been a strong increase in CT and MR use in Norway. Norway is now doing most CT in the Nordic region. There are twice as many CT surveys per population unit in Norway compared to Sweden. In Norway, there are also regional differences with a tendency for the highest use in municipalities near hospitals. The Health Directorate suggests that as many as 25-30 pst. radiological studies are non-indicated, i.e. the results of the studies will not be consistent with follow-up and treatment. With a volume recording for MR and CT, which gives several thousand images in three planes, the chances of doing so-called bifounds also increase – that one sees abnormalities in images that are not the cause of the patient's distress. These cases often require even more outreach and make people enstable, and they can also cause new complications to the patient. Patients are thus rediagnosed who do not necessarily require treatment but who can make their quality of life worse. The Health Directorate also shows that in Norway we have generally had a large increase in the demand for specialist health services, but that we have seen little about the reasons for this. The directorate also mentions that we in Norway have an infirmary practice in which a so - called whitewashing of common ailments and stresses such as easier psychiatry diagnosis on the health report form. According to the Health Directorate, such misreporting can also lead to over-treatment and mediating of common disorders and disorders. The Health Directorate also shows that there are significant differences in the use of medicinal products between countries, both in terms of overall levels and individual medicinal products. Even if we in Norway are low in drug use compared to countries with which we can compare, the trend in some areas shows that we in this country too have greatly increased the use of medicines. An example to which the Health Directorate refers is the treatment of what a believer is blood pressure disease, where the use of blood pressure lowering medicine has tripled in the last 20 years. The Health Directorate writes that from a professional point of view, it is alarming that the printing of blood pressure and lipid lowering drugs to middle-aged people in Norway appears to be almost unaffected by the estimated total risk of future heart and cardiovascular disease. Several studies also show that there is medication for the elderly in hospitals and hospitals that are not targeted. It also applies to older people who live at home. Such overmedication is also a mismedication and may have dizziness, falls and fractures as a consequence. Antibiotic use in Norway has increased by 12 pst. in seven years. Professionals fear the development of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. The consequence may be serious. Children and adolescents have more than doubled their use of antipyretic and analgesic drugs in the last 20 years. One calculates that 1 pst. the population has known as druginduced headache due to frequent use of analgesics. That overarching objective of our pharmaceutical policy is proper pharmaceutical use, but in a good deal of area I believe we are facing an over-use of medicinal products. Overdiagnosis and overtreatment have consequences for both patients and society. The Norwegian health system risks a situation where we waste resources on ordinary patients, that it is used more there than for special cases. There is a clear trend in Norway that liga induces tests and investigations for safety, without the cork doctor or patient being able to assess the consequences. Professor Steinar Westin has said it so eloquently: «It is unethical to take pictures of the back of others to cover their own.» Early diagnosis is, of course, good. It usually means better treatment, better health services and better prediction. However, early diagnostics can also make healthy people perceive themselves as patients, and early prevention is also associated with the risk of both side effects and complications. If we legitimize this kind of overdiagnosis, we also accept that we use some large health resources to look for disease from the healthy. Fortunately, while traditional health controls have decreased, most people have a healthy scepticism for introducing new screening tests for the healthy population. At the same time, we see that pharmacies are increasingly marketing health checks to their customers. The Health Directorate wrote in its report that such unselected health checks are, in effect, wild screening which one should avoid. There are many drivers in the health system for overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Patients today are informed and aware of their possibilities and patient rights. The media often focus heavily on unfortunate events and waiting times, and a market for private health insurance has been created. Rapid — often surgical — treatment is often expected, although non-surgical — i.e. conservative — treatment would produce equally good and equally rapid results. Professional education in the health sector does not have sufficient knowledge of prediction by not treating it. Technological developments make research and testing more available. Thus, a greater pressure on using these services is felt. Professional guidance provides guidance for the provision of services, but it is not always related to economic and organisational impact requirements when these guidelines are adopted. Relatives may expect active treatment. Today's Medisin, April 17, says that seven out of ten laymen have actively treated a patient at the end of their life, even though they thought the treatment should have ended. Economic incentives for active treatment may favour over-treatment. The Health Directorate writes in its report that, following the introduction of the DRG and ISF schemes, it has continued to pay attention to the possible distortion of patient provision against profitable patients. Leaders at different levels are measured on DRG points when the enterprise leader is looking at activity numbers and efficiency. Several countries have set up initiatives to identify areas where resources can be released and used in a better way in other parts of the health service. My question to the Minister of Health and Health after this is first of all: Does he and the government recognise that overdiagnosis and overtreatment are a challenge in Norway? And: What measures at system level and targeting health care providers will the Minister of Health put in place to counter the trend of overdiagnosis and overtreatment in the Norwegian healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1021	There is over-treatment and over-diagnosis in Norwegian healthcare, but in this context one must not forget that there is also under-treatment or under-use of healthcare. That's why I think it's very important that you're aware of the way in which a user is going to meet this problem. If one uses only one perspective, namely over-treatment and over-diagnosis, one can quickly lose sight of what I believe is the underlying and fundamental challenge, namely that there are too many differences and differences in the use of what is the medically recommended treatment. As a result, the diagnosis is not just over-treatment and over-diagnosis, but I feel that the diagnosis is that in Norway we have a systematic failure in that we are in practice having too much inequality in the treatment of patients. It is well documented that many people should have looked up their previous decision on symptoms and plagues that do not go beyond themselves, or that you are unsure of yourself. An example is the risk report of the Health Authority on Norwegian cancer treatment from 2010. The report points to late diagnosis as one of the major risk factors in cancer care. Overdiagnostics are often defined as diagnostics by a condition that has not given symptoms and that will not cause symptoms or shorten life. Overtreatment is often defined as when treatment methods are used with no proven effect and when excessive treatment rather than palliation in the final phase of life. We could still call this incorrect treatment. That's exactly what's my point. In all likelihood, we have both over-treatment and under-treatment in healthcare. My starting point is that the government should create the health and care services of patients and users. The main task of the services, as well as diagnosing and treating them, is to help patients and users master their own lives. For the government, it is important that the needs of patients and users are guided by the development and provision of services. User briefing means that patients and users are actively involved in decisions concerning them and that their experience should be actively used to improve services. Our goal is for everyone to receive the treatment they need and need. The assumption is, of course, that the condition or suffering can be diagnosed and that current and effective treatment is available. Ensuring good and safe patient and user care is the core task of all in healthcare. This means that employees and managers have a systematic overview of the activities — whether there is a wide variation in the procedures and in the results — and, where appropriate, can put in place improvement measures. Quality and patient safety shall be a high priority of managers at all levels. Both the patient and the user, relatives, personnel, services and society are well served for the first time. A wide variation in the performance of services may be an indication of quality deficiencies in healthcare services. At the same time, variability can also be a rash of overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Various research reports have shown in recent years how professional judgement in practice can also lead to variation in services. The government shall have full transparency of results and risks. We would like, among other things: carry out quality studies and promote an annual notification to the EEA on quality and patient safety. Such a message will include, inter alia: based on data from the patient and user agents. Recordings from, inter alia: The State Health Authority and the Health Directorate will also be given weight. This leads me to the relevant actions that need to be implemented. The Directorate-General for Health is required by law to draw up professional guidelines. In this context, the Directorate must also assess in which areas, in which disease conditions or in which treatment areas the need is greater. In order to ensure high quality and patient safety, healthcare professionals need decision-making support. Electronic decision support will be important, whether in the case of guidelines, professional guides or standardised references. Knowledge of variation requires access to the necessary data, and the data must be compiled and presented in a way that is understandable and comprehensible. Medical quality records for hospital services are good examples of this. Health records are sources of information and knowledge about the state of health of the Norwegian population. However, registers can also be used to produce variations and differences in results and thus differences in patient safety and quality. For the municipal services, we lack registers of this nature. Work is therefore in progress on developing a municipal health and care register. The medical quality records of the specialist healthcare system allow the various hospitals to compare their results of patient treatment with each other. I imagine that setting up registers for the municipal services could have the same function for treatment environments in the municipalities. It is therefore important that individual treatment establishments have access to information on their own practices — so that they can compare their results with those of others with similar practices. Decision support tools may also help individual patients or users to participate actively in self-health choices and make choices that are in line with their own values and preferences. I think patients themselves should be able to ask questions about services, such as:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t Why should I take this test, this medicine, the treatment or the operation? What health benefit can I achieve and with what probability? What side effects might this be about? What is the risk associated with this? I will finish my post by explaining specifically the conditions that the interpellant has brought up. A well-developed range of imaging services is a prerequisite for precise and effective cancer treatment. Significant geographical variation in Norway has been shown to be related to the use and prioritisation of imaging studies. Access to image diagnosis is perceived as a bottleneck in the specialist healthcare service and the demand for image diagnosis has increased in the last 10 years. This applies specifically to the use of MR, but also to CT. Ineligible use of CT contributes to increased radiation exposure for the population. From a public health point of view, this poses a minor additional risk to radiation-induced cancer. For patients in need of diagnosis and treatment, the risk is of minor importance compared to the benefits of the CT study. However, there is a need to standardise image diagnostics in the cancer investigation. The Health Directorate has started work on reviewing the recommendation on image diagnosis. In 2014, a national professional guideline on image diagnosis was issued in the case of non-traumatic muscle and skeletal disorders. The target group of the guideline is the personnel referring to such diagnostics, in this case the decision-makers, the chiropractors and the manual therapists. Screening aims at identifying people who, in a seemingly healthy population, have an undetected or recognised health problem. The aim of screening programmes is to reduce morbidity and mortality in the population through early intervention. In Norway, two national programmes, the mammography programme and screening for cervical cancer have been established. There are several challenges with screening programs. Examples are the risk of over-diagnosis and over-treatment, study and treatment complications, the risk of adverse effects, the risk of poor information on the possibility of over-treatment or harm, and the lack of evaluation. It is therefore important that quality screening programmes are continuously ensured and regularly evaluated in relation to these risk factors. The Health Directorate has now been commissioned to establish an overall strategy and governance structure to provide advice on all aspects of screening. For some cancers, e.g. gut cancer and breast and ovaries, there are genetic tests that tell of heritable diseases. Genetic testing of healthy family members will be of primary importance if preventive action can be taken against persons who have inherited the genetic defect. Current measures are numerous and often long-term and resource-intensive both for individuals and for society. It is essential that a thorough genetic investigation is available before the action is taken. The criteria used to identify risk persons must be knowledge-based, so that those who really have a high risk of disease are offered a good and comprehensive range of services. This is a question that therefore raises many issues, but I think it's important to take the right approach if you're also going to find the right answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1076	I would like to thank the Minister for Health and Care for the answer. I agree that one is required to have the right entrance to get the right answers, and therefore I was interested in whether the Minister of Health and Health actually acknowledges that over-treatment is an area that is not debated enough in Norway, and that we are not taking enough seriously, nor are those who govern and have responsibility for the healthcare system. But before we are a few on that situation, we cannot discuss what is needed. I feel that we are not quite a few about how big this challenge is in Norway today, and I can wish that one took this a little bit more seriously. Otherwise, I agree that we need to be able to talk about over-treatment without being able to see that there is also under-treatment. This will always be the case, and there may also be a reason why we are under-treated, that resources are being used incorrectly, and a reduction in over-treatment will be able to release resources to those who need it more. I assume – and I would like to have an answer to it – that the Minister of Health and Health will follow up all the concrete recommendations of the Directorate of Health on both system measures, measures targeting practitioners and actions targeting users, as well as holding campaigns. There are good proposals from the Directorate, but it also requires political will to implement them. I want to deal with one thing in particular, and it's about funding, because it's the basic thing here. The point is – and it also says the Health Directorate – that the health funding system is helping to promote a practice that could distort over-treatment. They recommend, as a single measure, that the reduction of payment systems favouring unit prices is likely to help mitigate over-treatment. This is contrary to what the government has now done to increase that part of input-driven financing. I would also challenge the Minister of Health and Welfare to introduce free treatment options against a tendency to over-treatment. It won't answer for someone who runs health services, when you've got a patient, saying that I think you'd better wait a little and see. It is worth taking that operation for those who provide health services, and it may favour over-treatment. So I want an answer about free treatment options.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1089	I am actually of a different opinion than the representative Kjersti Toppe regarding the attention to over-treatment. I feel that in the medical environment there is a lot of discussion about this issue. Actually, I'm a little worried, because just like the representative Toppe, you have a very strong impression that this is an over-treatment and an over-diagnosis. I believe that there is a shadow of the fundamental problem, namely the variation – the lack of sufficient seriousness and effective follow-up to the recommended treatment guidelines given, the published guides, and the international and national research results on the treatment methods and diagnostic methods to be used when. By focusing unilaterally on over-treatment, one actually loses the opportunity to work on what is the basic problem, namely that Norwegian patients today experience far too much variation in the treatment and diagnosis they receive in Norwegian healthcare. On the question of funding, I believe it is very important that the funding mechanisms do not help to ignore what is supposed to be the medical decisions. But if you go back to a system where health care is financed regardless of what healthcare does, patients will again experience increased waiting times and increased queues. I believe that unnecessary non-medically justified waiting, entering healthcare, is both a poor method of ensuring good medical practice and a poor method of prioritisation. There may be a distinction between the representative Toppes and my ways, but I think it's important that we in healthcare too have a funding system that means that if you're effective, if you treat a lot of patients, if you have a good organisation of the service, that's also what gives the best financial results. That's why we've increased the input-driven funding. But this is also how we see that it can have negative effects, and that is also why we are implementing the golden rule at the same time, which ensures that two of the policy priority areas of drugs and mental health – which do not have an input-driven funding – are ensured a higher growth than somatic in all health regions, precisely to prevent the kind of distortions that the representative Toppe is concerned with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1104	The theme of over-treatment, which the interpellant deserves to address here today, is probably somewhat in contrast to the stories we are still seeing, of all those who do not receive the medical treatment they are entitled to. There is no doubt that these stories are most easily heard in the public vocabulary. The truth is probably that both perspectives have something to do with each other. Some people are clearly late for treatment, or are under-treated, as the Council of State said, but we must take on seriously what has been widely recognised in other countries, that we see a trend in which over-treatment and mistreatment have become a problem — and that will, in the next instance, affect those who are under-treated. Everything here is related to everything. Therefore, we must dare to ask important questions about what might be the drivers of this development. We have good health services in Norway. Both doctors and other health professionals have a high level of professional competence and high integrity. This is important, because doctors have a huge acquisition of knowledge on most of us, and it is human to fear sickness and pain – and therefore we are willing to try most to get rid of this. Last year, the Health Directorate delivered a report on over-treatment to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The report points out that some of the problems in this field are related to healthcare financial instruments, which reward special medical examinations and treatments. As the interpellant also mentions, there appears to be significant regional differences in the practice of studies and referrals and drug use. Health regions with a well-developed laboratory offer take several samples per capita compared to regions with less developed offers. The report points out that this indicates an important context, that the provision of services generates demand. We should also ask if we are overreacting people at the end of life. Up to 25 pst. expenditure on health and care services is spent in the last year of human life and is significant. Medical developments mean that we need an ethically reflective debate on when it is right to provide and when it is right – and important – not to provide lifelong treatment. It requires difficult ethical balances between the obligation to save life and the consideration that all humans will have a dignified and soothing end to life as far as possible. So this report says something about the importance of economic drivers that can over-treat patients. It is in this context a cross of thought that the blue-blue government has large-scale plans to roll out the red runner for commercial operators in health care. Increased use of commercial operators increases the risk of over-treatment. Already today, there is evidence that private hospitals, which receive money per operation, operate more people who could be better off with another treatment. It's both expensive and stupid – not least for patients. Professor and determinate Steinar Westin in Trondheim is one of those who warn against such a development. He says it this way: ‘Fixed doctors are plagued by the fact that private operators are driving up a market of health anxiety.’ Fear of disease is easy to sell, and the health service has a great responsibility not to cause people’s worry unnecessarily, says the experienced doctor. Thus, it is not difficult to see that increased commercialisation will be an important driver of over-treatment, not least when the prospect of high profits meets increased expectations in the population. When heavy offers are rolled out within a selected medical area, demand follows. Freedom of establishment of commercial services on public account will determine the use of resources in the health sector. Several health researchers, including Professor of Public Health at the University of Tromsø, Olav Helge Förde, have pointed out that such a policy can lead to unfortunate – and even harmful – overtreatment. It can also give wrong priorities. Private actors will naturally primarily build capacity in so-called profitable medical areas — and in central districts of the country. Recruitment of professionals to commercial activities could then quickly go at the expense of public hospitals. The red-green government reduced a sample to advise on health care priorities. But should we be able to give priority, for example. the patients who need it the most, we must have public governance with priorities and distributions. Then we have to have tools that provide us with control both with the public health system and with the private actors we will of course cooperate with. A release to which the blues add up through so-called free treatment choices will favor the major international commercial actors, and then patients may quickly lose their weight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1128	The history of modern medicine is a story of amazing medical advances. Thanks to the expansion of medicine, we live longer, we survive diseases, we know what habits to avoid, and we catch people in the danger zone. In this perspective, it is important to highlight the theme of over-treatment and over-diagnosis, and there is reason to thank the inter-pellant Toppe for raising the issue. This is, as many have said, also a discussion that is widely taken internationally. Common to all debates in the professional community – not just in policy but in the professional community – there is a common objective: to ensure a health care practice that helps people who are ill and does not harm those who are healthy. This is primarily the case for this debate in the professional community. But back to Norway: At the turn of the year, there were about 260,000 people in health cows at home. They were waiting for treatments that the doctor has given them the right to. Therefore, we should be careful about discussing over-treatment, so no one is led to believe that the major challenge in Norway is the risk of us starting to operate healthy people, when we know that sick people who need surgery do not get it. We also need to be very vigilant to make this a debate on the need for changing funding methods in the healthcare sector, or on the degree of public/private cooperation. It is, in our opinion, a gross simplification of the debate. Kjersti Toppe referred to the Health Directorate report on overtreatment and overdiagnosis. As I read this report, it says very clearly that financial measures from other countries to limit overdiagnosis and overtreatment are of little relevance in Norway, where we have a different funding for healthcare and other tariff systems. It is also necessary to comment on Knutsen’s comments related to the financing of public/private cooperation. We must remember that the gatekeeper is the warden, the gatekeeper is the public staff specialist, and it will still be in a system of free treatment options – so that we have that clearly. The amount or volume of diagnosis and treatment is about people's uncertainties, risk management, people's desires, doctor's duties, dissemination of information and increased knowledge of possible interventions. We also have increased wealth and we have the capacity to carry out tests, and we have more medical technology and knowledge than ever – perhaps sometimes too much, but probably sometimes too little. Just because this is a tension and a balance, it's hard to set an objective limit. In practice, however, these limits need to be set, and many diseases are precisely defined at such a limit. Each time the limits are adjusted, the number of sick changes. For example, the definition of osteoporosis is based on a measure of bone density. When the threshold was changed in the United States, seven million more people were diagnosed overnight. There will always be some who believe — often rightly — that the limits set are imprecise. Some of those that are just below a threshold will also experience problems associated with the disease. It also creates important ethical debates in the professional environments related to border management. Nor should we underestimate the health benefit of getting a cancer. Being unsure whether we are sick creates a lot of anxiety and is a threat to our health. Finally, I want to return to the Health Directorate's report of June 2013. It provides some interesting advice, which Toppe also discussed, on strategic approaches to this issue. It concentrates on measures that have an appropriate approach in Norway, and it distinguishes well between system measures, actions aimed at practitioners and actions aimed at us as patients and users. I hope this report, but also the ongoing international studies on this topic, will be an important basis for further discussions – mainly in the professional communities, but also among us politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1151	Let me thank the representative Toppe for addressing an important issue. If patients are over-treated in healthcare, it is serious because they do not need treatment or do not work. And it's serious if it confiscates resources that could have been used on others who actually need treatment. Over-treatment is a sensitive and difficult topic, and there may be too little talk about it, as has been pointed out earlier in the debate. There may be reason to raise the question of whether overtreatment can be part of the explanation of the health cows that this country has been struggling with for many years. Should we ask ourselves whether the effect of a wide range of treatments on the public account can be defined as over-treatment because it does not prove to be effective, while others are waiting for the capacity that might be used for over-treatment? Does Health Norway place too few demands on patients, and chooses to continue long-term treatment because the patient and its relatives perceive this as care and support? Health services must strive to diagnose correctly, prescribe the correct amount of treatment and treatment that works, whether in the case of muscle distress, psychiatric illness, severe cancer or palliation in the final phase of life. In August last year, the report on overdiagnosis and overtreatment from the Health Directorate, to which reference has also been made earlier today, concluded that overtreatment covers all parts of the Norwegian health system. In all parts of the country, treatment practices vary considerably. One example is shoulder problems, about 70 pst. these treatments are considered unnecessary. In short, in some cases a significant proportion of the healthcare provided does not seem to make people healthier. Everything can't be prevented, but sometimes it's actually easier than repair in retrospect. We therefore need to motivate people to take more responsibility for their health, but still have good treatment and rehabilitation arrangements for those who need it, regardless of the suffering they suffer. But it is a fact that many diseases can be prevented by the individual's choice and lifestyle; however, with my corpus, I shall not claim to be a role model in this regard. A cardiology specialist wrote in the Evening Post on July 10, 2013: ‘patients are entitled to a proper professional assessment, not based on visual inspection. My appeal to individual patients is to ask the doctor: ‘Why should I be treated? [[or not treated]] In conclusion, we know that Norwegian patients can increasingly ask, ask more often and challenge health professionals to much greater extent than before. This is precisely why user orientation is important. Patients and dependants must be included on advice. Therefore, as the Council of State also correctly pointed out, quality and patient safety must be given high priority at all levels of the health system. It is a general goal for the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1180	Treatment, adequate treatment, proper treatment, overdiagnosis or overtreatment. Those who receive over-treatment take the place of those who need treatment. Those who are being overtreated use resources that others should have. We're a nation that expects something to be done when we know something. The report that has come is important to take into account, to get involved and to use. That it is different practice, I agree with the Minister. We have to be able to do something about that. At the same time, it's the way out in the population that we know that those who live far from doctors and medics use doctors and hospitals less than those who live nearby. That's why we also need an adjustment in our heads – the heads of us who use doctors and the health care system. It's also an expectation that when you get to the doctor you should bring something with you. The doctor is therefore also in a stressed situation, either in the hospital or as a regular. The question is whether what they expect to get should have been something other than drugs, x-rays, etc. I want to address some of the issues Kjersti Toppe raised, and I would also like to thank her for taking up the issues. One of these is the use of antibiotics for safety: we are in the middle of the spring now, and for example. Borrelia bacteria are coming. It causes a lot of anxiety in people – especially in South-West countries – because we know that the disease is cruel and we get a demand in the population. The fear of epidemics can lead to problems for us, because we travel more, and there is a risk of bringing epidemics home. Then newspapers and other media come on the field, and we saw what happened to vaccination against epidemics just a few years ago. It creates anxiety in people, because we have challenges in our own or in other countries. Then it's important for me to contact the minister and say: Getting out good facts when there are epidemics, and when there's a demand for more antibiotics, can help stagnate some of the things that make people feel that they're living in anxiety. In addition, we know that antibiotics do something about our ecological conditions in nature. I want to address a problem that I am engaged in, and that concerns over-medication of the elderly. In Denmark, they have had good experience of this. They cut off much of the use of sleeping medicine and tranquilizers, which were given only for one reason: they did not have enough offer to meet the loneliness, the unrest and the anxiety of e.g. nursing home. When they cut the use and spent more physical activity, the patients slept better, and they had it much better throughout the day. I think we have something to get to ask questions about the use of drugs. I want to go into a topic that no one has talked about here, but which I am concerned about: We have market forces that market and create a market and a need for people, which can eventually become quite demanding for us. Fever drugs and nasal spray are actively advertised in the winter, creating use and over-consumption. There may also be demands for what kind of treatment we should receive and expect to receive within the healthcare system. Then we have to be clear about who will decide that need. Should it be determined for medical reasons, or should it be guided by market forces that want to sell a product to us, whether it be x-ray or medicine? It is clear that when you are allowed to measure your blood pressure in the pharmacy and at the same time see the advertising of blood pressure medicine next door, it creates an anxiety and an expectation of those who get it. That's why treatment and overtreatment become a very important priority, so that we don't mistreat people, but also to use resources properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1214	The President reminds us that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1217	I hope the last relationship that Oluk V. Bollestad took up, hasn't happened – that people get advertising for blood pressure medications while they're being measured – because there's a breach of up to several laws. The interpellant addresses the problem of overmedication and overdiagnosis, and I agree that there is a problem, especially in geriatrics. It sounds like the hall agrees. We also see alarming increases in the use of antibiotics and addictive drugs. Then I think we should cost ourselves to be glad that what this week has come to be a new guide for the use of addictive drugs, which is just in favour of a more restrictive use. In the overdose strategy presented yesterday, more restrictive use of addictive drugs was one of many measures, so things happen. It has also been noted that a lot of antifever products are used, and that a lot of nasal spray is used. There's a lot of it spent on, it's being said today. But we also have to take into account that with good symptom relief, good pain relief, you might be able to do without, for example. antibiotics. The primary treatment of banal ear infections is precisely antipyretics and painkillers. If you skip them, you go very quickly to antibiotics, so I miss a nuance of the clinical in the debate here today. I could probably have found more examples of over-treatment and over-diagnosis, but we can't let this debate go without mentioning what the Council of State had to say: there are quite a number of undiagnosed patients out there. It is in Norway that the averagenorthman goes more and more to the doctor. The average northern man takes more and more blood tests. The average northman is being examined more and more. But the problem is that the average northman doesn't exist. Some are significantly more concerned with their own health status than others. The problem is that many of these others don't go to the doctor or get examined regularly. Therefore, we see that some patients are getting their cancer diagnosis too late, and although the number of deaths due to heart attack is falling, there are still many patients going around with very unfavourable blood pressure and blood values. Perhaps the biggest problem is that patients with poorly controlled blood sugar and high insulin levels, who were able to avoid diabetes at early intervention with a subsequent risk of sequelae, go around without getting a diagnosis. It's about maybe as many as a hundred thousand Northmen who are in danger of getting diabetes. Had these been investigated and treated before, we would have avoided many cases of disease. Once again, we must be somewhat nuanced in this debate. I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this important issue, but I cannot support her in the claim that under-treatment is due to others being over-treated. That's not necessarily right. Under-treatment is due to the fact that a little too many people do not care about their own health and therefore cannot be examined regularly. The sooner you get started with treatment, the easier your pathology gets. Prevention works better the sooner you get started. But I'd like to agree to discuss over-treatment if we can agree that the goal is proper treatment for everyone. Finally, I can't avoid taking up the mistrust I see at the Workers' Party, the distrust of patients, who, according to Tove Karoline Knutsen, will be happy to be able to operate anyway because in the private hospital you are ready with the knife. At the same time, I see a distrust of all the doctors who work in these private health care companies, who stand ready with the knife if they can only earn a few dollars. Is it such that the Workers' Party does not have confidence in health professionals as they change from being public employees to being private employees? It almost sounds like that. In any case, when it comes to free choice of treatment, one would have to have acquired a right to treatment in order to obtain it on public account. It will still be the port opener in the system. I think all the parties agree on that. But I hope we can get past the ideological barriers in this case and rather let the debate be about what's best for patients. That's what the Right goal is, to build patients' health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1235	Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate. I have some comments. First, to the representative Sveinung Stenland. I have not said – at least not meant – that under-treatment is due to over-treatment by others. I am very aware that there is a lot of undertreatment in Norwegian health care. What I'm dealing with now is over-treatment. What I said was that if an over-treatmenter is smaller, there will be more resources to deal with those who are under-treated. I'd like to draw a line under that. To the representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen, who suggests that one could read the Health Directorate's report on funding in different ways and quoted from the report. In the report, the Health Directorate says: ‘In this report, we have concentrated on measures that will be relevant in the national arena. For example, financial measures have been taken in other countries to limit overdiagnosis and overtreatment of minor relevance in Norway. [[...]] That's true, but as one of seven system measures, it says: ‘The financial systems must, as far as possible, promote recognised practices and, preferably, put brakes on undocumented clinical measures. Reduction of payment systems that favour the price of a piece is likely to help mitigate over-treatment.» This is the Health Directorate's advice, as one of seven system measures. I'm very much in agreement with the representative of Olaug V. Bollestad, who deals with both this with antibiotic use, over-medication of the elderly and the fact that we have market forces that are constantly pushing something at us. We're driving a medicalization of what's actually normal life and normal conditions. It is also part of the over-treatment. I think it's a demanding debate because if an over-treatment is taken up, a debt is that a person is not involved in proper cancer diagnosis and stuff. I would like to ask that we take a debate on over-treatment to see what we can do about it. I hope that one will go through these system measures and the other measures recommended by the Directorate, and that also means user behaviour. I want to tell a little story from the time I was noticed that overtreatment occurs, or at least an increased degree of referral to a specialist. That's when I was a doctor and I got a patient, a little child, who had a cat chlorine. When parents came to me, they didn't find the cat chlorine again, but they came to the doctor to get antibiotics or tetanus. There's something that you might as well have gone and asked your mother or grandmother to say about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1260	I very much agree that there is both over-treatment and over-diagnosis in Norwegian healthcare, but I am very afraid to make that diagnosis, because then the answer can quickly be that we do nothing if we have cows, because there is too much treatment. Then it doesn't matter if we weaken patients' rights, because we have too much treatment. No, the diagnosis is that there is too much variation in the treatment offered. The previous report, which shows that there are very wide variations in treatment that cannot be explained in medical terms, is then used as evidence of overtreatment. That might be true, but that report shows a very wide variation between public hospitals. It puts the contribution of the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, in a slightly strange light, because this debate creates the impression that there are market forces that contribute to this over-treatment. No, this variation exists to a very large extent between public hospitals today. Therefore, I am very concerned that the main response to this challenge will be to ensure that a more consistent practice is given in Health-Norway, regardless of whether it is in public or private activities, following what are the recommended medical treatments or the medical criteria for when to carry out diagnostics. There must be the entrance to this question. As a result, free choice of treatment is also a completely different issue. It is about strengthening the patient’s rights where the specialist healthcare service has assessed the patient and found that the patient is entitled to study or diagnosis. This issue is also very much about involving the patient in the decisions. I believe that no decisions should be made about me without me in the healthcare sector, and this is not least about issues related to treatment and help in the final phase of life. Too few patients are involved at an early enough time in an assessment of when to discontinue treatment, and one, for example. Instead, it should be turned to pain relief. The fact that one waits to take the important, but often difficult, conversation at a time when one does not have enough time to actually be able to reflect on these questions is a major challenge in Health Norway, not least related to cancer patients. That is why the Health Authority's report on the situation in Norwegian cancer care also shows this great paradox, namely that we have major challenges in getting many diagnosed too late, but that we also have a major challenge in overtreatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1269	So the debate is on case No. Four done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1285	The risk profile of Norwegian drug preparedness has changed. The dominant factor in Norwegian drug preparedness up to the 1990s was the risk of war or other acute crises. The importance of defence for civil and military drug preparedness in Norway has been minimised. The change in the threat picture has occurred at the same time as medicinal products have become more and more advanced. More and more Nordics are surviving and living conditionally on regular and good medical treatment, i.e. on-going medical supplies. Internationalisation is increasing in all fields, but especially in the pharmaceutical sector, we see this. This means that the preparation of medicinal products cannot be resolved nationally but requires international cooperation. A small country at the top of the world can quickly become lonely in a lack of supplies, whatever the deficiency may be. I realize that so far the Norwegian people do not want to enter the EU, but we are fully committed to working well with our European friends to ensure stable supplies of medicines. At the same time, we have a political responsibility to ensure that a small country such as Norway, with an even smaller pharmaceutical market, has effective and targeted pharmaceutical management, especially when it comes to the preparation of medicinal products. The increasing international dependence on foreign supplies of medicinal products, including vaccines, is increasing the emphasis on local problem solving and short-term emergency medicinal products in Norway. As pharmaceutical production is shifting out of Norway, the country’s competence in this area is weakened. We need a survey of what production skills we're actually left with. Ensuring Norwegian production competence is essential. A generation ago, any pharmacy was able and required to produce simple medicines. Now the few pharmacies are able to produce this. Hospital pharmacists are constantly producing. This competence is important to take care of. We still have a handful of strong and skilled industrial production units for pharmaceuticals again, but the number is decreasing. Drug policy has not been the hottest topic in recent years. Things are going pretty well, and then the area gets little political attention. But we've seen a large-scale deflagration and decline in the number of industrial workplaces in the pharmacy. Fortunately, this has the new government's ambitions to do something about it. A new notification of medicinal products has also been notified which gives hope for a new donation for Norwegian pharmaceutical policy. Drug shortage appears to be an increasing problem in Norway as well as internationally. There is a growing trend towards both the lack of supply and the deregistration of medicinal products in Norway. Both parts cause problems for Norwegian health professionals and not least for our patients. Oslo University Hospital has its own site on its intranet, which is regularly updated with current shortages and alternative treatment, as far as possible. Ullevål hospital pharmacy has its own pharmacy with special responsibility for handling this. The normal situation is now that something is missing. Despite increasing logistical and high-recording pharmacies in Norway, more and more drugs are lacking in the supply chain. The pharmacy association has taken responsibility through its company, Service Production. That's what saved Norway from the so-called morphine crisis that occurred in winter. The production of marginal medicines is a risky business idea, but in my view, ensuring this type of activity – small producers who can turn around quickly in the event of the crisis – is of national interest. Hospitals change from the turn of the year to the wholesaler of medicines. This is in itself a great change of pace. In addition, the government has announced that the requirement for full range wholesalers falls away. When this comes to the top of the withdrawal of the emergency stock agreement at Norsk Medisinaldepot, there is every reason to follow. Conversion is good and good, but in Norwegian pharmaceutical supply it will be much new at the next year. As mentioned above, we are priced stable foreign pharmaceutical supplies. One thing is manufacturers of finished products, i.e. those who make the pharmaceutical packaging that is sold to the end user. There we have seen a continuous consolidation since the 1980s, and by this week at the latest, two of the major pharmaceuticals have combined their portfolios. What is less visible is changes in the API market, i.e. those that produce active substances. For more and more substances, there are fewer and fewer producers, which can lead to shortages of raw materials and which also provide more vulnerability in the global pharmaceutical market. Norway may be less vulnerable by adapting to the situation. Today, national labelling requirements for packages are in place. We should perhaps work for several international or Scandinavian packages, of course with labelling in Norwegian, but which give greater volume to the goods sold in Norway. Norwegian articles are usually very small in terms of the number of packages sold. Norwegian pharmaceutical policy has been characterised by low prices, so low prices that there is a risk that Norway will not be prioritised in a situation where there is a shortage. The pharmaceutical industry claims that parallel exports of medicinal products are a problem for Norwegian supply. I would say that the allocation of medicinal products to the Norwegian market with which the pharmaceutical industry operates is a major problem. The wholesalers do not rarely go empty because they do not have enough goods to meet the domestic needs of producers. These are issues we need to look at. In particular, there is a need for clearer lines and clearer responsibilities in the case of Norwegian pharmaceutical preparedness. We need health policy coordination of the future safe supply of medicines to hospitals and patients. In the case of medicinal products, safety of supply and preparedness must be taken into account. We have healthy competition in the Norwegian pharmaceutical market. It is a political responsibility to ensure that preparedness and security of delivery are ensured over time. We must then bring together competences and forces and, as in other issues of social security, have clear responsibilities. Food safety and food production are an important topic of constant debate, but we must take on the fact that more and more Nordics, in addition to food, are also dependent on a stable drug supply to survive. I hope the Council of State will take these thoughts and challenges into account in its further work on pharmaceutical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1311	I am concerned that Norway has a good drug preparedness. It is very important that we have a stable and safe supply of medicines that gives the public access to safe and effective medicines in normal situations. At the same time, we must have a preparedness for accidents, disasters and crisis situations, and a preparedness for cases of long-term failure to supply individual medicinal products. The Directorate-General for Health submitted a report in July 2012 proposing a strategy for national drug preparedness. The report shows that the day-to-day supply of medicinal products works well overall. At the same time, we can never guarantee that there are always enough medicines of all kinds. There are various reasons why there is a lack of medicinal products. The most common causes are production problems, withdrawal of the medicinal product from the market, or an increase in demand to the point where it cannot be delivered adequately. Producers of medicinal products shall be obliged to notify the National Medicines Agency of any interruption in the supply of medicinal products. In the last three years, the Finnish Medicines Agency has registered 69, 116 and 90 cases of non-compliance and delivery failure respectively. These are the highest figures recorded since 2005. According to the Swedish Medical Products Agency, these cases are largely due to conditions outside the control of national authorities. Lack of medicines is an increasing international problem, and other Western countries face similar challenges. In order to meet these developments in the longer term, international cooperation is important. At the same time, we need to set up systems and implement measures nationally to enable us to deal with this in a good way. In order to reduce vulnerability in cases of restrictions on the supply of medicinal products, there are currently several national emergency stores for medicinal products. The Health Directorate has purchased and owns stocks of iodine tablets for use in possible radionuclides and antiviral medicines in case of influenza pandemic. Furthermore, the Health Directorate manages a standby stock through an agreement with the Norwegian Medical Pot. The stock includes approx. 700 lines of trade included in the wholesale rolling of goods. These are medicines used in both specialist and primary health care. In the context of the influenza pandemic in 2009, a preparedness stock of antibiotics and other intensive medicinal products was also established, managed by hospitals on behalf of regional health establishments. There are also spare stocks of infusion fluids corresponding to six months of consumption available in Norway. These may be both finished products and raw materials available for production. In addition, regional health businesses have contingency plans containing lists of important and critical medicinal products that are being rescued at regional level or at individual hospitals. In the case of vaccines, the Institute for Public Health shall discharge its responsibilities by having a warehouse equal to four or six months’ consumption. It is neither practical nor economically possible to have stocks of medicinal products in Norway that can cover shortages of medicinal products in all foreseeable situations. Today's preparedness solutions bear the mark of being fragmented. There has been a lack of an overall plan to ensure that the composition of stocks is based on good and up-to-date professional judgements taking into account the risk of supply failure for individual medicinal products. The Directorate-General for Health has therefore carried out an analysis to identify the medicinal products for which there is a particular need to ensure their safety. The results of this analysis provide a basis for the future preparedness of medicinal products. Existing agreement on rolling standby stock between the Directorate of Health and the Norwegian Medical Pot expires at the end of 2014. In practice, for medicinal products used in specialist healthcare, the contract of the Directorate has depended on the fact that Norsk Medisinaldepot has also been a wholesaler of the country’s hospital pharmacy, and thus has been responsible for the supply of medicinal products to hospitals. In view of the fact that the regional health companies have now awarded contracts to Alliance Healthcare Norway AS as wholesaler for Hospital Apotetes, an extension of the agreement with Norsk Medisinaldepot is in practice not relevant. The new wholesale agreement with Alliance Healthcare, which enters into force on 1 January 2015, includes a solution with an expanded security deposit of a wide range of critical medicinal products. The agreement also includes other measures to ensure the supply of these medicinal products to health-care establishments. Furthermore, challenges associated with parallel exports of medicinal products from Norway have been taken into account. The Ministry is in dialogue with regional health companies to ensure that good drug preparedness solutions are established even after the expiry of the agreement between the Directorate of Health and Norsk Medisinaldepot. Precautionary protection of medicinal products for hospitals lies within the responsibility of regional health businesses. I agree with the interpellant that national manufacturing competence and manufacturing facilities for medicinal products are a factor in reducing our vulnerability in cases of reduced supply of medicinal products. Experience in winter with reduced access to certain morphine preparations illustrates this. National production is also important for research and training in the pharmaceutical field. The 2012 report of the Directorate points out that it is important to have national production capacity in order to ensure preparedness, in particular in the case of sterile medicinal products. As a follow-up to the report, the Ministry has asked the Directorate to assess the specific measures that may be taken to ensure the necessary production capacity in Norway. There are many actors with tasks and interests in the field of medicinal products. On the authority side, the Directorate-General for Health, the National Medicines Agency and the National Institute for Public Health have tasks and responsibilities for the preparation of medicinal products. In the supply chain, there are commercial actors in the form of pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesalers and pharmacies. Finally, medicinal products shall be prescribed and used in healthcare. The safe and secure supply of medicinal products requires good interaction and dialogue between all these actors. Situations of supply failure often require an evaluation of the use of alternative medicinal products, and there may be a need to re-establish procedures and procedures to treat patients. The health service has called for prior warnings and closer dialogue with governmental bodies in order to manage such cases more effectively. The Health Directorate has proposed the establishment of a Pharmacovigilance Committee to contribute to enhanced cooperation and dialogue between the different actors. The Executive Board will, within a short period of time, initiate a start-up meeting for such work. The government plans to submit a notification to the Stortinget during the spring of 2015 reviewing the full pharmaceutical policy. In the context of this communication, I will consider various measures to increase the preparedness and security of supply of medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1332	It is clear that pharmaceutical policy and preparedness are a matter for the Minister of Health. The Council of State should be grateful for a good answer. In its reply to the Health Directorate’s report in 2012, the Council of State refers. It provides a thorough and good review and shows that overall the supply works well. But I'm most concerned about when it doesn't work. That's when it fails, this becomes interesting. As the Council itself points out: this is happening more and more often. In recent years, more and more deficiencies have arisen. I described many of the conditions in my previous post. I want to acknowledge the effort that has been made. I am not addressing this issue to point out that someone before us has done a bad job, but there has been a constant lack of political attention about the field. That is why I want to address the debate. It is interesting that once there is a lack of morphine – which has such a mysterious sound – it becomes a big media issue. But no later than this week, there have been reports that there are no products for breast cancer – there will be not so much swing over. At the same time, I don't think Norway is able to produce itself either, but these situations occur all the time. What can be a challenge is, when it becomes empty on the world market, what happens? Will Norway be a priority, or will it not? There are several examples of Norway not being able to do so. For example, a few years ago, the world was more or less empty of a product called Selo-Zok, because the Americans started using it. They paid twice as much as the Europeans. What happened? Well, the market in Europe was emptied of it, because the willingness to pay here was worse than in the United States. We do not have to be so that we are particularly demandingly regulatory or particularly low-paying, because it can cause us greater problems in the case of a deficiency. With regard to pharmaceutical stockpiles, we need to distinguish between emergency stockpiles in themselves – which is the responsibility of the state to provide – and the current stockpiles of wholesalers that operate commercially. Today, most of the ‘just in-hours’ are supplied – the stock is adapted to current turnover. No one has an interest in building up stocks – there is a risk of disappearance, and in addition there is a cost of capital. With the efficient distribution chains that we have, both in Europe and Norway, stocks are becoming smaller and smaller. I support the idea of a Pharmacovigilance Committee, but we cannot rest and wait for what the Committee does. There must always be political attention here – to be sure that we have good solutions whose unfortunate situations would arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1347	I would like to thank the interpellant for this discussion. It is quite right that this is a topic that has not received a lot of political attention in the past. The interpellant also provided a number of good analyses of the background for this to happen, and what we see is that a very common reason – which I also had to say in my answer – is that there will be a stop in production internationally. This creates a shortage not only in Norway but also in other countries. This is also due to the fact that we see a consolidation taking place internationally of production sites, such that a warehouse is larger – of course also more efficient – production units in one place. But it also means that when production stops there, it becomes an international problem. That is why I was also concerned with the fact that there are some of these challenges that Norway nationally will not be able to solve alone, but that will require international cooperation not only between authorities but also with industry. Nationally, it is important that we ensure ourselves in emergency situations, that we have the opportunity to also have national production in situations where there is a lack of international supplies. There are a number of measures in place and a number of measures planned. It is also important that we discuss and work on this issue until we present our own headlines to the spring on pharmaceutical policy. This will then also be a topic, so in this area it is interesting to hear the views, input and suggestions of the Storting on how to meet these challenges, so that we also have the opportunity to assess the proposals involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1354	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for a very important and good interpellation. I would like to say that I share the concern expressed by the representative Stensland that large commercial companies should not be able to ensure our pharmaceutical preparedness alone. When the responsibility is transferred from the directorate to health care establishments, it is essential to ensure that businesses have the right purchasing powers and that they are provided with financial resources to build up a necessary preparedness. Political decisions are required to ensure all the freedom to get proper medicine at the right time. It's a health minister's job to make sure. But medicines – commercial or not – must also be used correctly. Studies carried out by the directorate prior to the ‘Good quality — safe services’ notification show that there are too many cases of mismedication in Norwegian municipalities and hospitals. This is where competence is needed. More people have to take health education, and more people have to have the opportunity to work and develop in their profession. Knowledge of people to be helped and possible side effects of treatment are acquired through experience. People react differently because we are different, and we have to adapt the treatment to the individual. Then it doesn't make sense that our nurses and health workers only get 19.3 or 27.6 pst. positions to learn and develop. You don't get to know the people you want to help, and you don't get enough time to develop and get really good in your profession. In the 2014 additional proposal, the Right-Fremskritsparte government took place in the so-called growth-promoting tax cut. I hope that, as a result of the information on medicines, there will be room for health-promoting increases, including: in the form of support for the Centre for the Competence of Children at Haukeland University Hospitals, ensuring the correct and good quality of medicine for children, and providing for health promotion in the form of several full positions in Norwegian hospitals in the next state budget. It will help to ensure the safety of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1365	First of all, I would also like to thank the interpellant for a very good interpellant, and I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, because it shows that both the interpellant and the Council of State in many ways have at least the same reality of the situation we are in, and not least what we should look at in the future. It's quite obvious that we have some challenges. I believe that one of the greatest challenges we have in many ways in the pharmaceutical market in our country is an ever-declining pharmaceutical industry in Norway. It means that we lose valuable competence – I kept saying – every single day, every single week just because you either lay down, get bought up, move production capacity to the rest of the world, etc., and that makes us very vulnerable. Then we need to have a strategy for how we can meet this challenge in the future. There are many areas we have to look at, because it is the totality of the offer we give, which will determine how lucrative or interesting it is for these large international groups to give priority to Norway and the Norwegian market. Within that system, of course, there are patents related to medicines that are very important to focus on. Of course, this is true of the pricing policy we are pursuing at all times, which is very important for whether Norway is an interesting market when it starts to snap. It's not a problem to get medicines at all times as long as you have good capacity at the production stage, but it's when it starts pinching in the field that we really see what position we're in. If we keep running a policy that pushes prices, if we make ourselves difficult in the market while we're a very small part of the international market, we won't be so interesting when there's a lack of some sort of medicine. I think maybe – a little bit like the interpellant – we'll look a little bit wider at our emergency policy on the pharmaceutical side, maybe just look at a Scandinavian model. It was to a large extent in connection with the swine flu debate that was taking place. Then we discussed a lot here in the hall, just based on the possibility of greater Scandinavian cooperation. I also think we obviously need to have a review of the contracts we have in terms of production. Where in the term are we, where are we in line to get vaccines? The international agreements are being concluded where Norway also has room in the queue, and I think we need to have a review of these things all the time to make sure where we stand. I also think that when some Norwegian families – I kept saying – start looking at the date of their packages at the next epidemic or pandemic, at the time the medicine goes out, almost every household in this country will find that what they had purchased from the domestic flu situation that we had has expired. Medicin goes out to date, so it's important that we also have good stock management and good logistics, just so that we keep controlling the situation. I also believe that the drug procurement cooperation that is already in place is working very well. We have to play on the competence of this organisation. LIS is doing a fantastic job. It also makes us have a good overview of both what is needed and where to get it. It is very important that we maintain it, but I think we clearly need to look at the framework, the legislation, the opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry and others to establish themselves in Norway, research and develop. We have a high level of competence in Norway, but we need to maintain that competence. The interpellant was in on the historical. For some years back, almost every pharmacy could produce almost any medicine, at least in the normal daily situation. Today we're not there, today we're in a completely different situation. What is also going to happen in the future — at least as I see it and believe — is that when we proceed with such ‘designer drugs’ based on the individual’s illness, we will be even more vulnerable. We will have an even greater demand, and the production capacity will become all the more important. Then it's important that we have a strategy for it. I am happy to work on the new pharmaceutical notification. Clearly, there is a sign that you may have been in this room for a long time when it is the second or third notification of medicines you are taking. But it's equally interesting every time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1382	I would like to thank the interpellant for promoting an important issue for debate. I am a little surprised at how clear the interpellant is in the interpellant text, when he determines that ‘Norwegian medicine supply is vulnerable, even in a normal situation’. He asserts that: ‘Norway has low stocks of important medicinal products and is priced for stable deliveries from foreign suppliers’. That's honest. I note that in the current news of drug use, the right course to correct drug use, it states that: «The supply of medicinal products works very well in Norway, and failure to deliver is usually not a major problem». We've recently seen that even in a normal situation, there's information that we're missing morphine, and it gets a lot of attention, but there was also a recent shortage of cancer medicine for breast cancer patients. Sometimes we lack some antibiotics, and it also has our lack of regular asthma medicine. So even in a normal situation, we can go empty. It is important that we have good preparedness. I agree with the inter-pellant that the state must ensure that the Norwegian people have access to proper and critical medicinal products so that the necessary medical treatment can be maintained. I also found it interesting that the interpellant noted the need to ensure national production skills and facilities, especially for sterile medicinal products. I am looking forward to a central part of the alert on medicinal products. The centre party is very concerned with food security – this is the same: we are in a vulnerable situation, and we are dependent on deliveries from foreign suppliers. But now I know that the representative of Stensland is also concerned with food security. So preparedness also applies to medicine. I am therefore happy that he takes this up. Governments so much about what's going on and what's going to be done. I also got the feeling that there was going to be a preparedness committee. But I see in the current medical report it says – and here's a recording: ‘The Ministry may prescribe the goods a pharmacy must always be in stock and may lay down minimum delivery requirements for medicinal products as specified. pharmacies law § 5-4 fourth paragraph. This home has not been used.’ This was in 2005. I don't think he might be useful. If it is possible to do so within today's law, this is a proposal. It also states that: ‘The Ministry may also provide that pharmacists, wholesalers and manufacturers of medicinal products shall be required to draw up a contingency plan for the establishment, possibly including establishments in the emergency plans of municipalities; [[...]] So if this isn't done, then there's also a steering gear from the state to ensure better preparedness for pharmacies and medical supplies out there. Then I have nothing more to add, but I think this is a very interesting problem and look forward to the medical notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1418	Thank you for a good debate. I had not expected so much disagreement on this matter, nor was it. But at least we agree that this is a challenge that needs constant attention. The representative of Otterstad pointed to the risk by shifting responsibility for emergency storage from – I expect that’s what he meant – the wholesalers to the healthcare companies. Obviously, it's a challenge, but it's manageable if you just get started. As far as I know, there's money in place, too. They have to get started with the job it is to establish warehouses around. Otherwise it is interesting that the Workers' Party uses this opportunity to commend us for our tax policy action. Nesvik noted that we lose competence every day. I took that up in my post as well. I expect him to support me in that we need to get an overview of the competence we have today. That being said, we must not forget the recent success of Algeta with the product Xofigo. The preparation is actually not produced so far from here, at Kjeller, at IFE, which I visited just before Easter. They build and employ many people to serve a growing market in cancer with spread to the skeleton. Several have mentioned the local production and the role of pharmacies there. There I must say, as an old professional, that it is very strange that has been produced in pharmacy – I have made a lot of strange myself too! I could talk about it for hours, but those times are over – it's over. It's over -- the labs don't exist anymore, and it's actually good. The quality of much of what came out did not keep pace with the level of finished products. But it's a challenge when it comes to simple preparations of some things. And now with the Interaction Reform with sicker and sicker patients to be treated in local healthcare and local health care, it is a challenge. We have to look at that, too. We need production skills, and it's not just enough to bet on hospitals. Great seemed surprised because I'm so ready. I'll take that as a compliment. I mean, what I'm describing in the interpellation is the situation. We have a challenging situation. We can support ourselves in that things are going pretty well, but I am concerned about the times when things are not going well. Now Toppe places emphasis on the current medical notification. But it's actually ten years old, and it's happened a little bit in ten years. We have to take that on board when we're going to make a new medical notification. Then I agree with the Center Party on something. One of those things is that food is important, and I also think that food is the best medicine. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1433	I would like to thank the inter-pellant and the other participants in the debate for a good and important discussion, which I will take with me further in this work. There are also some issues that have not been so much up now, but which are often raised in this kind of discussion, which I will also come up with. There has been a broad consensus in Stortinget to lift the full range of pharmaceutical wholesalers. I am sure that this change will not reduce security of supply in Norway, but rather provide space for alternative distribution channels that will provide increased security of supply. Drug wholesalers will still have a universal obligation to all their pharmacies for the medicinal products they distribute. Often, the discussion of parallel exports also arises in this type of discussion. I believe that it can contribute to dynamism and to the smooth functioning of the market. At the same time, parallel exports must not lead to wholesalers in Norway not being able to fulfil their statutory universal service obligations. The Agency, in cooperation with the National Institute for Public Health, has assessed whether statistics on parallel exports of medicinal products from Norway should be collected as a standard practice, but has concluded that such a system will generate significant administrative costs both for the wholesalers and for the authorities while at the same time providing little added value to the work of the Agency for the Supervision of Medicinal Products. The Ministry has also consulted a proposal for an amendment to the Medicines Act to introduce the obligation to supply medicinal products to the pharmaceutical industry in order to ensure the distribution of medicinal products. The recordings of the consultation round and the experience of other European countries show that such an obligation is difficult to define and that it does not increase security of supply. The proposal to amend the legislation is therefore not currently being promoted. The Government will also consider other measures to further enhance security of supply in Norway in the context of the new notification of medicinal products. The representative Toppe took up the obligation to keep a pharmacy. It is an issue that may not be of great importance in the event of a major national supply failure. When it comes to having emergency plans, there is also a general requirement we have in health care. It may be more important then to ensure that the different parts of the healthcare system actually follow those requirements and have contingency plans in those areas where they have emergency responsibilities, and it is not least important to look at how we can, if necessary, strengthen this work further in the field of drug notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1452	So the debate is on case No. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1468	Psychiatric disorders are one of the major public diseases. About half of the Norwegian population will suffer from a mental illness during life, and one in three will suffer in a year. It is therefore time that mental health services become an equivalent part of the community health service and of the specialist healthcare service. Today we have an artificial two-part health system: one for somatic disease and one for mental illness. I think the time is ripe to see mental health and physical illness more in context. This is how I think we can help more than we can today with our sectored and fragmented help offerings. The Roadmap for Mental Health should change this, and in the period 1998–08 there was also a qualitative and quantitative improvement in the provision of services for people with mental health disorders. However, the escalation was short-lived, as is usually the case with project-based bets. In recent years, there have been no more, but fewer, daily treatment places in the specialist healthcare service, without compensation for new services in the municipalities. In the left we are therefore very pleased with the clear priorities of the new government for mental health and hope that we can get a longer-term escalation of the service provision in this area. We are particularly concerned with strengthening the lowthreshold provision in municipalities – not least the provision aimed at children and young people who are the topic of today. It is worrying when up to 70,000 children, or 2,300 school classes, have mental health challenges that are so great that they need treatment. Health and school health services are currently responsible for children and young people, but often lack resources. An example was found in an article in VG on Monday this week. 1 200 students at Åsside secondary school in Drammen share half a health sister. The left has therefore made proposals to increase the number of health sisters by 1000 during the current ageing period. In addition to the school health service, we know that the PP service – i.e. educational-psychological service – in municipalities varies greatly in quality and scope around the country. In many municipalities, there are few employees, there is a lot of work pressure, and thus there are also long waiting lists to get an investigation and corresponding long waiting lists to get some action. In the worst case, it's going to be a whole school year to wait, and in a child's life it's a long time to wait a whole school year. Parents also need help to be good caregivers. Over 100,000 children grow up with parents who have drug problems or mental problems and suffering. It is therefore important that municipalities also have the competence and capacity to treat adults with mental disorders. In addition, it is important to provide for more coherent treatment processes both around adults and families. Children also benefit when you don’t knock on so many doors and take so many phones to so many different actors in a sectored assistance service. In my own country and neighbouring country – in Hedmark and Oppland – there is ongoing cooperation between the Hospital Inland, the County Council of Oppland and the College of Lillehammer on a model they call the Inland Model. In short, it is about early intervention and creating a coherent treatment line for children in a critical life situation. It requires professional insight, as well as that the auxiliaries play together. The municipal health centres, midwife services, health sisters, child protection, the BUP at hospitals, the youth health centre and outpatient contacts are often the most important actors. Together, they have developed a standardised treatment line and a competence plan. The municipalities of Gudbrandsdalen have been through a course series to become familiar with the treatment line, update their knowledge and coordinate their efforts. This is also an important new crime work on a national basis, for although efforts are in line with national leadership and wishes, it has proved to be difficult to achieve in practice all these actors between them. In addition to professional competence, the Inland Model emphasises experience knowledge. In practice, this means, among other things: that children are included on advice and development. This I think is a very exciting work. This is how children become a resource both in their own lives and for others. Children tend to have more in them than we adults dare to use. Among other things, both pedagogical methods and new media are used to raise children, who are particularly important, and to give them the ability to mastery. The need for interaction is great when we talk about mental health and children and youth. This is also emphasised that the Mental Health Youth Organisation is one of the major challenges in this area. Some municipalities have also done so by establishing family houses or similar coordinated services, where they have been able to coordinate municipal services aimed at children and young people and their families. In this way, we can avoid sectoralising our children’s heads, which are often referred to across different services. It is the whole of the offer that is important, and it is essential that government authorities also cooperate. The cross-ministerial initiative with the strategy plan for children and young people’s mental health has now been in place since 2006. I believe it is time to look at it and repeat a force majeure also in the state agencies for children and young people and hope that the Council of State will assess such a strategy plan. In the context of the Interaction Reform, it has its main starting point in chronic diseases for adults and the elderly. We must not forget that we also have many small ones in our municipalities and in our society, and it is important to raise the challenges that children and young people have. Youth is also important. An extended offer on an evening and weekend basis within the DPS and outpatient teams is important. A suicidal idea doesn't always come in the daytime, and in the worst case, you might be in school without access to a health sister. The health centre for young people is important, and there are new media that young people are good at using. In particular, it is interesting that text-based offers in chat and the Internet can be very useful instruments for young people in particular. So it's my wish that the state also contributes, so that the municipalities and state agencies have room for action to develop the necessary services for children and young people and their families. A force-cap is needed – usually a stepping-up plan – but it has to be long and preferably for an entire generation to come forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1494	Psychiatric health is an area of concern for the government – in line with the agreement we have between the four parties. We have made it clear that there is a need to strengthen prevention, lowthreshold measures and specialist healthcare, and that mental health should be an equivalent part of public health work. Strengthening services for children and young people in health, child protection and education is particularly highlighted. Good mental health is among our most important resources. Good mental health provides well-being and opportunities to exploit its potential, master the challenges of life and be able to contribute to society around it. By giving children and young people the opportunity to participate in processes that affect them, we can contribute to both mastering and meaning. Experience that it is possible to influence and change aspects of their lives is health-promoting in itself. The government has already implemented several measures aimed at strengthening children and the mental health of young people. The previous government would cut the mental health system in school. This has been reversed and the prevention action is now being implemented. The golden rule that mental health protection should have greater growth than somatics has been reintroduced. This is supposed to result in a strengthening of the offer to children and young people. The government platform is ambitious in reducing high school dropout, and the aim is to get more people to implement the school in a normal time. Early action and good cooperation between services are important here. Children who have difficulties in kindergarten and primary school will receive assistance and help. The government continues its efforts to strengthen health centre and school health services and to establish low-threshold mental health services in municipalities, including for children and young people. This means a reinforced commitment to recruiting psychologists to municipalities, and in 2014 the recruitment grant has increased to 100 million. kr. As the interpellant points out, many children have mental health challenges that are so great that they should be helped, and many have parents with mental or drug problems that go beyond daily functioning. Children and adolescents may be symptomatic of the situation around them and of what they are exposed to. Children may be victims of violence, sexual assault and care failure, or may be related, as mentioned. They can have traumatic experiences of war, be socially isolated, be subjected to serious bullying, racism and discrimination, and they can live in poverty. For some, these pressures, in conjunction with biological and social factors, have consequences for quality of life and how they master life. There are good opportunities for children and young people who experience severe stress to have a good and life-long effect of health promotion, prevention and early intervention. That's why it's important for the government to bet on psychologists in the municipalities. The focus is on knowledge and competence through the establishment and development of four regional centres of excellence. Centres shall carry out research, development, education and information activities for the benefit of all those working with children and the mental health of young people. Interdisciplinary further training is also established in psychosocial work with children and young people, precisely to develop skills to reach the vulnerable children and to get early help. The provision of health services for children consists of primary and specialised health services, and almost all children and young people have a regularity. Health and school health services are in a unique position to meet so to speak all families with children, young children and school students. The services are used to an almost equal extent by all groups of the population and therefore have a good and important starting point for capturing risk factors and health problems at an early stage. A good health centre and school health service is important to achieve goals related to the mental health of children and to improved nutrition and increased physical activity among children. But the service is also central to preventing and detecting violence and abuse, preventing bullying and reducing school dropout. Mental health work for children and young people is a responsibility for the municipality across the traditional sector boundaries. It includes offers to children and young people at risk. 25 pst. of the municipalities have chosen to organise the provision of children and young people in a separate unit for mental health work. About 50 pst. by municipalities and almost all major cities have established integrated municipal services for children and young people, often in the form of cooperative models such as the Family House or Family Centre. A family centre is a locally anchored cross-sectoral and multi-disciplinary unit, where children and families at risk should be able to receive help and support without going through referrals and waiting lists. The number of psychologists in the municipality has been increased through the grant scheme. The main focus of the offer is on prevention for children and young people. Psychiatric health protection for children and young people, BUP, provides outpatient activity, but also outpatient treatment, as well as day and day care. There has been a significant increase in the number of annual works and in the proportion of the population being treated during the year, and the availability of the service has increased significantly. About 5 pst. of the paediatric population was in contact with mental health protection in 2012. It's a very high number, probably the highest in Europe. It is thoughtful that despite the increase in wealth, the improvement in growth conditions and a well-developed service system, many children are not getting the help they need in Norway today. The main measures to ensure the mental health of children and young people relate to the growing-up environment, participation and influence, competences in services, services at the right level and interaction and cooperation. There are challenges on our agenda in the future. The efforts already being made to strengthen the prevention and treatment provision of mental health for children and young people must continue with unimpaired strength. In parallel, a wide range of reviews is also needed to see the context of public health, primary health and specialist health services. During 2015, we will therefore present a comprehensive health policy to the Stortinget in the form of three major messages: one on public health policy, one on primary health services and a national health and hospital plan. Increased mastering and efforts aimed at children and young people will, of course, be central to the government’s overall health policy. In the Public Health Communication, we will present new policies in areas that have either not been sufficiently prioritised or that we believe require new solutions. The government will ensure that mental health is integrated as a natural part of public health work. A public health perspective on mental health means that attention is focused on conditions that affect health throughout the population. Such an approach makes it visible that this is not primarily a health care task but a cross-sectoral responsibility. It's about creating a society that promotes health. We will help to create safer growth conditions by closing the gaps in the social security network, preventing bullying and preventing high school drop-outs. The government will also provide a notice to the Stortinget on primary health services in municipalities. The notification shall be seen in the context of the municipal reform. Mental health work, including the provision and organisation of health care for children and young people, will be central to the communication. Not least the role of psychologists in primary health care will be included in this work. National health and hospital plans will also address the offer to children and young people. I've told you, we're going to create patients' health services. The development of new user roles and thus a new treatment role may be the most profound change in healthcare right now. Patients are the main change agents for the development of services. This also applies to children. Fortunately, the participation of children and young people, their rights and perspectives have increased attention in recent years, both in research and professional settings, in services and among politicians and decision-makers. This is reflected in legislation, professional recommendations and policies, where children and young people’s right to participation is well anchored in many ways. Nevertheless, there is still a lack of formal structures that provide children with a real opportunity to participate, and the best ways for the child is easily measured against other interests and priorities. Decisions are often taken without asking for children’s opinions and experiences. Through a recent report by the Children’s Ombudsman, Health on the Premises of Children, children and young people have communicated what they think about the services they receive from child and youth psychiatry when they have been subjected to violence and abuse, and they provide, among other things. advice which: Use time to get to know and create trust and security. Don't think you know me and my story even if you've read the referral papers. Do not focus so much on what is a problem – look forward to it. In the work on the three messages, we will listen to the children and to their parents. Our goal is to find the good concrete solutions that give children, young people and families the help they need. That is why I have asked the Children's Ombudsman to help us find children who will be part of one of the three expert groups working on a national health and hospital plan. Children will sit at the table when designing future healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1562	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough answer. Especially the last sequence I want to stay a little bit by, because bringing children into their own lives and actually also in the design of a health policy carries commandments for new times. I think it's an important step to take. And then we also have some a little formal ways to go related to children's participation and participation. We need to ratify a child convention in Norway that reaffirms children’s rights more thoroughly. When we look back, we had a power investigation a few years ago, and it would be interesting to have a power investigation for children and young people. But in this perspective, I think it's definitely more important in the short term to have children in the user community, and in more than one arenas. Then the councils of state within a community reform that I think is becoming particularly important. In Oppland, the State has taken a thorough look at the challenges facing the 26 municipalities in Oppland, and there are in particular four areas that have been identified as challenges. Two of them are for the most part children: child protection and the practical educational service. Here there is a lack of both competence and capacity, and therefore there is a quality that does not exceed time. It is important to take into account the planning work that will take place in the next few years. This is the right time to address these public health challenges, with primary health messages and with a new health and hospital plan, and taking children and young people's perspective into this planning and bringing their children to work. Then there are also exemplary points of light among the actors, and it is very nice to point out at Oslo University Hospital – it is not always that there are just wrong and tough processes among major actors. They have children and young people's mental health as one of their three priority areas in the next few years. They deserve it for, for many children and young people in the Oslo region, there are many immigrant children, and there are many children with small resources, who can benefit from such a large player prioritizing many of their resources on just them. It is important to use all opportunities to influence and prioritize, because municipal politicians are making their priorities, the Storting is making its priorities, and those priorities have to go together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1575	I would once again like to thank the inter-pellant for raising an important topic and for the views and input that have come into this debate. Listening to children is something we don't have a lot of experience with -- taking children's views seriously. I am at least very pleased that the Children's Ombudsman has done such a thorough job as they have now done, by having received a separate report on the children's experiences in meetings with the health service. One of the things that surprised me very much in that report was exactly what I referred to in my post: the children's descriptions of the meeting with the children's and youth psychiatry. A health service that should initially have all the prerequisites for just meeting children in a good way is described differently by the children who have experience with that meeting. It seemed to me so serious that I chose to send this report to all the country's child and youth psychiatric units and asked them to sit down and specifically discuss this feedback from patients and report to their management on how they intend to work with it. I think it is quite simple and concrete that needs to be done now, when you get as clear feedback as this. So I fully agree with the interpellant that quality, also in this area, is very much about competence. That's why we're very busy expanding a better school health service and getting more health sisters in the municipalities, but also getting a bigger and more robust professional environment to play on. That's why it's important to get more psychologists into the municipalities. Too many children and young people today feel that they need to get very sick before they are sick enough to get a reference to the specialist health service. Very many children and young people can get good help in a very short time if they meet the right skills at an early stage. That's why I really believe that we're building up a good shrink service in the municipalities, a lot of kids in a few consultations will be able to get the tools they need to get back in a situation where they master the challenges of life. This is also about transparency – transparency that we all have a mental health, that the vast majority of us through life will come into situations where we also face challenges with our mental health, in the same way that we face challenges with our somatic health. If we are to build – and we are to – a good health service, we must at the same time build up the barrier to seek help. This applies not least to children and young people. It must be nice to talk about your mental health. This is why the school also plays an important role in teaching children that they have not only a physical health but also a mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1588	Thank you very much to the representative, Mr Kjeseth, for a very good and important interplay, who is raising a timely and important debate. It's scary that it's a lot harder to talk about meeting the wall if you meet yourself than if you crash with a big fire on the football field or on the handball field. We in the Workers' Party fully agree that the Stortinget must support the priority of the Norwegian Psychologists' association for children and young people. What is frightening is that it turns out that today children and young people are in debt, among other things. credit card debt, up to a maximum of 1,1 billion. kr. It turns out that children and young people feel that they are not being seen, that they are not receiving help, but also that schemes that we have put in place in this room for children and young people, such as the health care system, do not have time to be involved and prevent. There's something serious wrong when 90 out of 180 million. kr to prevent and help children and young people, is used for something completely different. Then there is something that is not as it should be, and there is something lacking in politics when half of the money to help children and young people to trust themselves, be safe and dry to carry out the course at school, is not used for it. It is then time to dry to say that this one wants to do something about, to dry to prioritize and to put hard against hard. In the booklet Prevention for Children and Young People, on the Psychological Association's vision and strategies, point 1.2.5 on High-Quality Child Gardens states: ‘By 2020, all kindergartens shall have access to guidance, investigation and follow-up skills in line with the public health objectives of child care and the prevention of the mental health of young people.’;» It would have been interesting to hear Minister of Health Höie’s considerations, whether he sees the link between the psychologistic association’s objectives of high-quality kindergartens and the competitive outsourcing of kindergartens in Oslo, where staffing and quality requirements were reduced and benefits were opened up – in the kindergartens that were exposed to competition, not in the municipalities. In Trondheim, we've steered the launch in a slightly different direction. Among other things, there are: establish Barnas Station, which is to be a relief and an extra offer for all those who have tough everyday life and who do not necessarily manage to help their children and offer them something extra in the afternoons and weekends. A quality programme has been put in place in kindergarten and strict vocational skills are required in pedagogical management. The model municipality project, carried out from 2007, which expires in 2014, has done something important and has followed up a lot of the health minister Höie talked about, namely the interaction that it is important to achieve when you have so many different establishments operating in the same field. We're all looking for one thing, and it's helping children and young people and helping everyone who's tough. That is why it would also have been nice if the Minister of Health could have considered what is going on with this project, which is of great importance to the prevention work, among other things. in Trondheim. Finally, I would like to mention a fantastic action that has been set up in Trondheim. It's the road back at Leistad. There people who have had it tough are allowed to come and be for a couple of weeks if they are found too easy to be at the Broset and heavier institutions. There it is that instead of having the activity inside, one is taken out. If someone is going to the cinema, someone at Trondheim will have a cinema, one will not have a cinema of your own. One shall be helped back to life. You shouldn't be taught to go to your own gym. You're with them and you're training, and you have the activities in the city where you're going to live after your stay. It is also a special offer for children who are struggling at home and who need extra follow-up, but who are also going to learn how to work in society. I ask the Minister of Health specifically to look at the action at Leistad, and encourage him to take it further and get it out in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1610	Thank you to the interpellant for inviting you to this important discussion. Over the year, too many children have waited too long for mental - health care. The most challenging thing is that so many people wait too long before they get caught up and get help. There are probably no good overviews or waiting lists of these, and we can only imagine how demanding it is to have challenges that one does not get help to solve. One of the main challenges facing us is the public health challenge that is in poor self-esteem and self-esteem in young people. There's too much gap between expectations and demands on life and life as it actually unfolds. It affects and challenges mental health. Young people, in particular, find it difficult to find their identity and are challenged by body pressure and self-performance. Good, early intervention is important in psychosocial and prevention work. However, services must then be perceived as accessible and at the lowest possible level. In the Ski Municipality of Akershus, they have a great offer called Helper. The helper is a team at the health centre offering easily accessible mental health care to children, young people and their families. There, psychologists and health workers work with competence in mental health. The offer has been made in such a way as to provide guidance and brief discussion of up to five consultations. They also give advice on the phone to children, young people and parents. It should be easy to contact if you are struggling with emotional difficulties if you have experienced family or community stress, which you need to get help mastering – or if you are struggling with negative thoughts, for example. body and self-image. I also think it is great that parents there can get guidance and conversations to know how to support their children when they are struggling. Such projects are probably many of them in Norway, and we have to cheer them up. So transparency is important. I have received many positive feedbacks that the Prime Minister spoke about mental health in his New Year's address, talked about the need for us to be open, and that we help each other. In April this year, the Health Directorate presented a positive development for psychologists in the municipalities. An increase of 40 pst. From 2012 to 2013, it is useful to bet on recruiting psychologists for municipalities. Although we believe that the red-green government should have done much more in the mental health field during its eight years of government, there is no reason not to praise the bet in this area. That it has given measurable, good results is great, and I am pleased that the Right Party government is following up this effort further. The Minister of Health explained in his statement the strengthening of the Right-Fremskrit Party Government towards mental health, and that this will be an important part of the three major messages coming: the public health message, the notification of the primary health service and the national health and health plan. I also think interpellanten, Ketil Kjenseth, and the Council of State has today highlighted how increased capacity, improved interaction and not least the participation of children in the development of healthcare is important. In conclusion, I would like briefly to touch on the importance of volunteering for children’s and young people’s health — including mental health. The sport, the woodpecker and the school music create meeting places for inclusion, interaction and dignity. I know the sport well and know what a health-impact – also a mental health-impact – it has to meet others, either on training, on the sideline as eager supporters or even on the waffle-stitching table. Then we're part of a community. For some it means a break after a busy school day or work day; for others it can actually be the first experience of real cohesion that day. We need a strong public health system, but we also need good framework conditions and opportunities to exercise a lot of volunteering to ensure good living conditions for children and young people and to ensure mental health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1636	Having hurt in the back, a knee or an arm may be weary for someone each. But you know what you can do with it. If you suddenly experience a paralytic anxiety or a heavy depression, it's not as easy to get help. The key to good mental health protection is to get in early with help. It's a repetition for all individuals who make contact, and what I read about in different articles, that's the fact that people don't fully understand or find out where they can get help when the problems start. Then they discover that when they have finally found out about this, they are standing in some queue. Throughout, I hear that you have to wait too long, and that the disease and the plague became deeper and more serious during this time. A few years ago, I was visiting a health centre in my municipality. The health sister, with more than 20 years of experience, could tell that she now experienced children all the way down to class who were having mental problems, and that this was something that had happened in the last few years. I remember being startled by what she said, and I thought in my quiet mind: how in the world are we going to be able to meet this new, young group in a good way? Psychiatric problems at an early age can, if not seen and done with, cause drug problems, eating disorders and self-harm or develop into serious mental disorders. The roadmap for mental health was successful in many ways. Much was achieved, but we did not reach a goal. I am therefore appalled when we were still told about cuts in the offer to mentally ill people. That is why the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has put mental health as a priority. We have set clear requirements and given increased appropriations. Psychiatric health should be strengthened year by year in terms of prevention, lowthreshold provision, treatment and follow-up. There's an incredibly good health in mastering your own life. In the case of children, unfortunately, very many of these still wear out mentally because of bullying. Zero tolerance against bullying has, fortunately, been a high priority for many years for both big business, government and municipalities. There has been a lot of effort on this, but still we are terribly far from succeeding. It makes a strong impression on me to meet grown people who got almost their entire lives ruined because of bullying up through their childhood. I have therefore been a great admirer of the organisation MOT, who works with children in school to make them their own ambassadors for themselves and for their fellow students. Learning to have the courage to stand for your own opinions and having the courage to stand up for each other builds double strength. I am therefore very pleased that the government, along with the Left and Christian People's Party, found money to strengthen the MOT's work against even more municipalities and even more schools. I am also concerned that a safe and good growth actually also prevents drug abuse. Unfortunately, anxiety, exclusion and low self-confidence have often resulted in self-medication with drugs. That is why we strengthen the health - care service, and that is why we strengthen the community - psychologist service. All in all, there is reason to conclude that we have a long way to go within psychiatry too. We know that low-threshold services are important and can prevent serious illness, but not everyone has access to it. We know that the waiting time for treatment is very long in many cases, and that this can therefore be an offer only for those who can buy out of the queue. Long waiting times increase the risk of disease escalation, which in turn may lead to increased use of coercion. And we know that it's bad and difficult to live with mental disorders, both for those who are affected and for those who are close. We know that the learners are fighting, and that the wrong offer has approximated zero value. This is exhausting for the person concerned, and there is very poor use of resources. And we know that someone almost through a lifetime goes out and out of treatment -- some because you got late, some because it wasn't given the right treatment, and some because they were discharged too early. Too many of these simply don't work anymore and end their lives. That is why we need to put in place a comprehensive and diverse offer without long waiting times, and we also need to learn to see the children and actually recognise that the basis for good mental health is laid in childhood. Thursday, May 22nd, Psychiatric Health Professionals. There are children and young people between 12 and 22 years of age with experience in mental health protection. They come here to the Stortinge to give advice to the politicians. The change factory has heard for more than one year approx. 100 young people from Alta in the north to Kristiansand in the south to find out what young people themselves think is good and bad help. I hope the representatives use this opportunity to hear the young people tell their own stories.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1662	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. Psychiatric disorders can affect us all, and it can affect all kids. It can actually happen right down into the nursery. At the same time, some groups are more vulnerable than others. Research shows that children with special challenges, disabilities and chronic diseases are at an increased risk of depression and mental challenges. Several of these are lonely and have a lower mental quality of life than other kids because they may not have the same meeting places in e.g. the sport or spear that all other kids have. There is evidence that the chances of being able to deal with and recover are much greater the earlier mental problems or depressions are discovered and treated. An adapted and positive health service is particularly important for children and young people, and perhaps the most important for those with other challenges, such as disability, for example. Today, children and young people face a health service that is responsible for mental health, which is not adapted to them — and again — especially those with special challenges. A report commissioned by the Health Directorate in 2012 confirmed that school health services and other lowthreshold services in local settings are often poorly developed, and that in some places they do not exist at all. At the same time, it is a challenge – and I want to challenge the Minister for Public Health – that the question in the municipal health service is: Who ultimately has responsibility for the mental health of children and young people? When a young person in the first class has been admitted to child psychiatry and returns to the municipality, who has the total responsibility? In the specialist health service, they have a specialist; in the municipality, they tend to be the doctor, who is not a specialist in mental health. Then they get follow-up of the school health service, by the PPT, maybe, and by the health center. But who has the overall responsibility, the uniform responsibility? It is missing, and it is also missing in the regulations we have. Unfortunately, the municipality of Rogaland has done something good. They employ a psychologist, a health sister with special training in psychiatry, PPT service, a teacher with special training and a specialised nurse, who is a team meeting mother, father and child with their challenges and illness. It's almost equal to what was told earlier here from the municipality of Ski. So interaction becomes important to us, and I ask the Minister to look at the regulation and look at who it is that is going to get the total responsibility in the municipality. I think it's important to have total responsibility to be able to get a complete service to children and young people with mental challenges. We know that there are some municipalities who want to try this out, who want to try out and see if they can have a health centre for young people, mental health services, low-threshold services and psychological services in one house, where the youth can meet, where one gets the combined skills in one place, and where one does not get a sectorization of the service. That, I think, is a good approach to having a good impact on the use of these services. I ask the Minister to look at the possibility of organizing, especially in municipalities with a large population and a lot of young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1673	Thank you to the representative, Kjeseth, for promoting an important interplay on strengthening the prevention and treatment provision of mental health for children and young people. Psychiatric disorders are one of the major health and social challenges in Norway, and we know that up to half of the population develop mental health problems during life. The mental health escalation plan, which we had from 1999 to 2008, ensured that mental health was given a higher priority, and there was a significant build-up of the service provision also in the municipalities during the escalation period. The ear-marked funds had a significant impact, and the quantitative measurements were better achieved than the qualitative ones. That was also the experience. The challenge now, following the completion of the escalation plan, is that the municipalities have still recruited too few psychologists, that the determinations must be included more strongly, that the low-threshold supply is still too poor, that cooperation between the municipalities and the specialist services must be strengthened, that there is a need to increase the competence of the municipalities in the field of mental health and drugs, and that there is a need for better quality of service provision. In the Sintef report, which came in autumn 2013, it is clear that the annual effort in municipal mental health work has increased through the escalation plan, but has not increased since 2007. It's a pretty serious development. Many municipalities report that specialist services are being built faster than municipalities have a framework for building up. That's the situation of the day. The SINTEF report also says that they expect 6.7 pst. of all patients in mental health care, waiting for a community service and that at least half of them need housing. It is estimated that almost every fourth entry into mental health protection could be avoided if different municipal services had been established and developed. This means that there is a great potential to avoid hospitalisation and to improve the mental health supply of today's municipal services is being expanded. The government has warned that mental health work in municipalities should be strengthened. That's good, but it's also non-committal. The government announces a escalating plan in the field, but they do not notify a psychetry plan. The central party believes that we must also have a stepping-up plan for the mental health supply in the municipalities. When we know that the annual effort has not increased since 2007, we think that here we need ear-marked means – a municipal mental health escalation plan that will only deal with municipal provision, not the specialist services. We think there has to be a bet that goes over five years, and that has to be done with fresh, ear-marked means. Barneombodet has slaughtered the scholesetenesta in a new report – that the scholesetenesta works too badly, in some municipalities it is almost absent. We went $180 million. kr. It's given approximately. 130 health sisters. That's good, but it shows that we need a bet here, and then we also need a special bet from the state to help the municipalities, which have not been satisfied when we're building up the service. It is shown that one reintroduces the Golden Rule. We've talked about that many times. There's nothing wrong with it, as seen, but it's not where the challenge is. This is the challenge in the municipality, and then we have to have separate measures to build up the measures in the municipalities. What is also pointed to as a bottleneck by the Institute of Public Health is among other things. to get people to seek help for their mental health problems. It probably also applies to children and young people. There are those who need it who need it and who need it. It means reducing the under-treatment of the sick and over-treatment of the healthy, that the primary health service’s toolbox needs to be expanded, including: in general, that one must carry out treatment and avoid non-response, and that one must ensure the quality of the treatment. Overall, there are quite good reports that the government can look at to strengthen mental health work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1693	As a member of the Kuf Committee, I get to travel around many school visits. There I meet a lot of teachers, who hang out with children and young people every day, and I've got a lot of calls from teachers saying that a disturbing lot of the students have mental problems. They report back two problems. One is that it is very difficult to get help in the specialist health service. Young people with quite a mental disability have to wait a long time to get in. When Health West can report in 40 days on average waiting time to get into paediatric and juvenile psychiatrics, it is, of course, too long, but before these kids get there that they get on the waiting list to Health West, they have had quite long periods of severe difficulty and the difficult period is too long. The other thing they report back is going to the health sisters. Health sisters out in schools are the closest students, they're easy to refer to, they're easy to contact, they go in the halls, the students know them, and they're harmless. Of course, being able to help kids much earlier, long before they get on a waiting list at Health West, is a good thing. I find it a little alarming when teachers who have been in school for many, many years give feedback that there is an increase in such challenges. Obviously, such an increase is due to many things. There's a greater diversity of students now than before, we have students who have come to this country with a completely different baggage than they had had if they had grown up here initially. But then the teachers also tell us that there are many students who are suffering that their parents are unable to cooperate. There are conflicts in the home, which affect the kids very much, and it's both sad and of course very frustrating for a teacher to see that the parents are unable to spare the kids for the conflict they might have. Then a health sister would be great to be able to talk to those students, to be able to follow up, and also to follow up on parents or others who make the situation a little difficult. The left has been quite clear in terms of health sisters. We've said that we want 1,000 new health sisters over the next four years. It's a goal we're going to work against, and we're also going to work towards the government to try to achieve. In the media over the last few days, we have seen that the health care service is not a believer – there are too few health sisters compared to the need. My call goes to all of us, not least to the government, that here we have to get a leverage for health sisters, so that the kids can get the help they need, where they are, and when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1704	First of all, thank those who have taken part in the debate. There's a lot of commitment, there's come a lot of good experiences from around the country that I really appreciate getting acquainted with. It shows that it is possible to create good services when selecting priorities locally. The resources are probably pretty much there. We don't have to spend too much money, but we have to put some money in the pot. This is all the more important, which I was also concerned with initially, about coordination, and also about priority. The representative Iselin Nybø was involved in the school health service and the health care system, and it is a challenge, especially in high school, that it is the municipalities that are responsible for the health care services, while the county municipality is the school owner. There is also a kind of structure that we need to look at, or an administrative challenge that is especially up to us politicians to address. I think some municipalities feel that the responsibility, even though it is one's own youth who goes to a high school in the municipality, is a little removed from the responsibility they feel they have in the municipality. So that's one of the challenges. So I think it was the representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen who was involved in the increase in the number of psychologists. I'm not sure if it's actually like that, unfortunately. There's also one of the challenges here, that it's hard to see the real numbers. There are some statistical challenges, and there is also a sign that we need to work a little bit more on structures and on the statistical guide to get a better overview of the real situation. What we know is that there are many municipalities that have not hired a psychologist, and there are not too many municipalities applying for grants from the grant scheme to hire psychologists. So here we have a challenge in front of us, to get more municipalities to use what's arranged for them. But they also need to make an effort even in many municipalities to provide attractive jobs, not just project-based jobs, in order to attract psychologists. I think it was the representative of Bollestad who was inside nurses with psychiatric competence. I also think it's one of the tools we're going to use more, so this isn't just based on references. There is often a conversational partner many children and young people need in the first round, with a competence that is not necessarily a specialist competence. So it's important that we get started and remember children and young people in all the planning we're going to do now, and do those priorities for an entire generation, from year zero.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1719	Thank you very much for an exciting and important interpellation debate. There have been many good examples of what works, and it is also important to take them along. Although we are in an area where there is a need for greater efforts in the years to come to build up a better service, we are nevertheless at a stage where there are very many good examples of individual municipalities that have shown the willingness to set up a priority offer for children and young people, both the prevention offer through a good school health service and a more specialised offer through, for example, for example. an accessible psychologist’s service in the municipalities. That's important, but we're far from where one should be. I am concerned that we start as early as possible. Early intervention is crucial in this area. A mental health challenge is in many ways a childhood disease. Most people who face a mental health challenge through life get it for the first time in their childhood and youth. It says a lot about how important it is with early efforts, too early efforts where a community assistant, in the school health service, before one gets so sick that one needs help in the specialist health service, will in many ways reverse a development that is absolutely crucial to how life goes on. This is also one of the important explanations of high school dropouts. If you get into the negative spiral that a person gets a mental health challenge, falls out of high school and then doesn't get into work, there are unfortunately great opportunities for a person to stay out of work and get other major health challenges in life. This is why it is essential that one in this field be able to develop a better school health service, more psychologists in the municipality, but also creates good quality both in kindergarten and in school. Several were in the posts also inside it. Therefore, this government chooses to invest $170 million. kr in 2014 to build up more competence and quality in kindergarten. We spend a lot more money on competence and quality in school. It is also part of the prevention work in this area. One is met with a kindergarten and a school where there are competent personnel working. It is absolutely vital for these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1728	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1744	Globalisation has made the world less – at good and bad. The good side we can look at every day in sample business. We have increased international trade between countries. We have falling transport costs and economic development, and there is cooperation that we can still enjoy. A lot is going well. However, a problematic aspect of globalisation is that the barrier has also become lower for Norwegian citizens to go to war scenes, both at their own risk and for the influence and later possible risk of behavioural change after returning to Norway. We know from experience in the past that violence experience poses an increased risk, especially if combat experience has been acquired outside the framework of training that will take place under traditional protection obligations, such as: for an established country, where respect for the Geneva Conventions is also incorporated. The police security service devoted increased interest to this phenomenon. In the last publicly available threat assessment, PST referred to groups of extremists who, through participation in foreign fighting, are given increased capacity to engage in violence in Norway. In a free country, there shall be no general restriction on leaving the country. It is part of the basic principle of freedom to stay where one will, of course, within the framework of the law in force at the place where one comes. In the European Convention on Human Rights, the ECHR, this right is included in Additional Protocol 4, which, having determined that everyone has the right to leave any country, including his or her own, at the same time provides for derogations if the regulation is justified in the interests of national security or in the interests of effective implementation and protection of the rights of others. Regardless of the right to travel from Norway, Norwegian citizens are still bound by criminal provisions designed to protect against violence or other privacy violations, no matter where in the world they take place. We can therefore, through national legislation, set limits on what legal acts are, including for Norwegian citizens outside the borders of the country. A particular problem that arises from the PST threat report is the participation of minors, in particular in the civil war in Syria. Following the Convention on the Rights of the Child, persons under the age of 18 are defined as children, and the young person himself cannot claim the unconditional right to choose a place of residence without delay, and the deputy has the closest responsibility for follow-up. These are the duties of the superiors, as well as, of course, as we know, that a youth can very well incur self-punishment after the age of 15. The majority has recently strengthened the penal code § 147 aimed at acts of terrorism. Nevertheless, questions may be raised as to whether it is still suitable for preventing war participation in a country where terrorism has not been a purpose, but where the threat to Norway lies in the fact that the experience of violent experiences de facto affects the behaviour or has provided concrete weaponry that can subsequently be used in Norway, even if it was not originally intended, from the beginning, to engage in terrorist acts. From the past, we have had legal provisions allowing the government to ban participation in war for Norwegian citizens in the countries that the government specified more precisely. I'm aiming for, for example. to the law of 19 March 1937, which has subsequently been repealed. It has also been stated that the day that the returnees meet the criteria for being followed up by the PST, it may actually be too late. So you have to focus on rules that are norms and prevent them. My question, with which this interpellation runs out, is this: Does the Minister of Justice think that Section 147 of the Criminal Code is still sufficient to adequately address this threat, and will the Council consider up-to-date legislation to prevent war tourism?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1767	Let me first thank the representative Tetzschner for addressing a very important issue. The challenge posed by persons travelling to conflict areas such as Syria to participate in armed struggle is great. At the same time, I would like to stress that not everyone who travels to Syria is going to Syria to participate in active struggles, but also some to participate in humanitarian work. Of course, the interpellation focuses on those who travel in order to participate in the armed struggle, and of course it is these who also pose a potential threat to Norway by return. The national threat assessment of the PST, a coordinated threat assessment between the various services, which provides an overall picture of the threats addressed to Norwegian interests, concluded this year that the terrorist threat to Norway has increased. This is due to a number of factors, but the fact that many have participated in war-like actions and terror in other countries also means that they have acquired knowledge and competence that can be directed towards Norwegian interests by return. In this context, I would like to refer, inter alia, to: questions in the questionnaire from the representative Jan Bøhler on 6 November last year, where he took up the relationship with the new terrorist groups Stortinget adopted in June 2013, and my statement on the review of the legislation in this area. The background to my approach was, among other things, the formidable increase of Syrians who, in my opinion, made it necessary to look at whether today's homes are good enough. This work also includes the assessment of possible new homes to prevent people from having war experience in countries that do not recognise international law and which may pose a threat to Norway. Participation in armed conflict will normally involve actions such as: are the subject of criminal penalties for murder, violence and perpetrators of crimes of general concern such as sabotage and fire. It may also be affected by the provisions on terrorism. These are acts that can already be punished under Norwegian law, regardless of whether the act is committed by a Norwegian or a foreigner, and regardless of whether the act is committed in Norway or abroad. However, the main challenge in such cases is that the investigation will of course be very complicated and demanding, and that such prosecution will be difficult. It is problematic to investigate criminal acts committed in a conflict area and it is challenging to ensure satisfactory evidence. For this reason, the interpellant’s challenge to me is an important input because it is a matter of action to prevent people in Norway from even getting the opportunity to enter conflict areas if the motive is participation in warlike acts or terror. And here, too, one of them is going to be facing a very complicated image of evidence, but we're now evaluating, for example, to propose provisions making participation in any armed conflict punishable at all. At the same time, I think a number of other prevention measures are important. As the inter-pellant is aware, the government is now working on a new action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism which will help to prevent radicalisation in concrete terms. It is estimated that there are about 1 000 Islamists from Europe participating in the conflict in Syria. Among these, between 40 and 50 are estimated to be related to a multi-ethnic environment in the east of Norway. It's assumed that many of these fight side by side with militant extremist environments in Syria. Our Nordic neighbours face some of the same challenges as we do in Norway in this area. That's why, at Nordic level, we've agreed to address this together even more than what we're doing today. It is both about looking at measures to prevent and to ensure better knowledge of what works pre-departure prevention and how to deal with repatriated Syrians. A kind of division of labour between Nordic countries in the field of research may also be relevant. This work is, of course, something the government will follow up on. Based on the information we have, both from the PST's overall threat assessment and the E-Service's focus in 2014, the risk of recruitment to such militant extremist environments is still high, and there will be an increasing number of those who have already left, who will return to Norway during the time that comes. As you know, the PST is doing an important preventive work and is conducting conversations with people they suspect wanting to travel to Syria and participate in extremist Islamist struggles. Providing the PST as an instrument for such emigrations may be relevant. In addition, guidelines have been developed to inform municipalities about returnees, or returnees, Syrians in an attempt to ensure better against potentially ticking bombs in our neighbourhoods. At the same time, the government is committed to ensuring the necessary and sufficient resources for the PST, both in order to have adequate analytical capacity and capacity for investigation in cases on which there is a basis. I believe it is important to have an open political door to constructive proposals that may be important to prevent more people from being recruited into extreme Islamic environments, and to prevent more trips to Syria and other conflict areas from participating in criminal activity. It is also important to continuously assess whether the legal framework we have is satisfactory. This applies to both methodological and criminal use. These are the challenges that the government is taking seriously and is forward-looking, and I am sure that the debate we are going to have in this Chamber today will show that the parties of the Great Britain are similarly forward-looking and constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1799	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good, well-worked and reflected response. It gives hope. It is also reassuring that we are at least together on the subject of concern. This indicates that we're also putting the cancers into finding solutions. They should be broad-spectrum — ranging from the criminal provisions that may be relevant to renewing and supplementing, to the emphasis on the responsibilities and possible consequences of failure to have an overview or at least to claim not to have an overview of where the younger members of the family may be at all times. I also stress the seriousness of the fact that, as far as we can see from the statistics, Norway is more than adequately represented in relation to the population. It also means that you have to think about whether there are special issues, either by our legislation or by our approach, that can explain this overrepresentation. In particular, the response to minors in the danger zone will be of great importance in terms of prevention. Then you also have to consider whether you can have a general exit ban, although of course it also raises important issues with regard to what else is a foundation: that you can move almost anywhere you want, and you should be able to do that when you have good intentions in a free society. There is a formidable increase in the number of Syrians, as expressed by the Council of State. There is also a common concern that it will be acted on fairly quickly. Therefore, I would like to end by asking whether the Council of State could suggest when the Stortinget is presented with the measures that the Council of State has considered necessary in order to better address this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1810	I want to thank you for the recordings. At the same time, I would like to say that this is not a problem that may have a final line. Some of these issues are we relatively far in assessing and will be able to come back relatively early to the Storting with, other issues we will have to consider on an ongoing basis. There may also be new proposals that are good and appropriate to consider. So my approach is really that we shouldn't lean back and believe that the law we have will at any time be sufficient to achieve the goals we want. Therefore, it is also difficult to be specific at the time when the Storting will get these cases. I want to follow closely, and we have our own work going on in the department, as I mentioned earlier, which will address some of these challenges. We also take with us the recordings that we get through the debate today, and for other recordings, among other things. from PST. But I cannot give any concrete date for feedback. However, I would like to mention a few things. I very much agree with the starting point of the inter-pellant when it comes to the responsibility of the deputy. At the same time, one of the conditions that make this issue very complex is that it is difficult to find any common common background sign or starting point for those who travel to Syria. Normally you will be able to look at special religious environments or special geography or the type of background that allows you to recruit into what others seem to be completely incomprehensible to you. It is difficult to find among the Syrians from Norway. Some common features may be seen, but we all remember the example of the two young girls who traveled on their own keel without the parents knowing that there had been behavioural changes or any indication of such radicalization. It also makes work complex, especially on the prevention side. But it is essential to point to the responsibility of the superiors to avert that kind of radicalization. Then, as an argument against it, it could be said that there are some officers who might have motives other than what we would expect from responsible officers in recruiting to such environments. Then I would like to comment on the question of a general exit ban only briefly. It's an extremely important liberal value that the interpellant also had in mind. There must be very serious reasons for imposing a general travel ban. It's not always that good intentions are sufficient. We have to assess the consequences of it from a very broad perspective, not least in terms of – as I mentioned in my reply – that not everyone is travelling to Syria, traveling there to participate in battle. Some also do it to participate in humanitarian work. And then the goal of terror is to frame our way of life, and they won't succeed in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1819	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue. It has also been useful to hear the Minister of Justice inquire about the Ministry’s legal assessments of Norwegian law relating to this area. It is reasonable to have a continuous assessment of the need for new changes in the law — the terrain is changing, recently represented by the fact that dozens of young people have moved to Syria. It is quite a large scale and a degree of organisation within a reasonably limited period that we have not seen before and which is difficult to compare with past experience. When the terrain changes, it is important to look at what the map is like and what means it should take to adjust to reality, as it looks today. If the government comes up with new legislative proposals, the Workers' Party will of course consider these – also proposals related to general war participation or the cessation of benefits related to people fighting radical groups in Syria, as the FFI, Thomas Hegghammer, has previously stated. At the same time, I would like to remind you that we have gradually developed a very complex piece of legislation in the field, that is, mainly terrorist acts, in recent years, especially in the period after 11 September 2001. Under the previous government, new legislation was also proposed — and adopted — to prevent the financing of terrorism, training for terrorism and, in particular, active participation in terrorist organisations. I understand the interpellant there that he does not primarily demand a stronger law on terror, but on general war participation, and then with particular emphasis on the effect and the danger of acquiring war experience. It is a question that I believe is relevant, and I would like to have further discussion on the agenda. It is equally important to discuss the practical aspects, such as: how to ensure the effectiveness of legislative proposals through evidence-based resources and how society should otherwise deal with the fact that it comes back from Syria, some of them presumptuously with combat experience, or with training, inspiration or only generally stronger prerequisites for committing acts of violence in Norway. If, as a society, we are to succeed in combating radicalisation, if the Nordics are to travel to Syria and, in the worst case, have the capacity to commit acts of violence on Norwegian soil, there is also a need for measures other than legislation. I have noticed another measure from the Minister of Justice, that the municipalities will be informed in a more systematic way when Syrians come home. I'm glad. But he does not yet say anything about what the municipalities are expected to do with this information. They lack a manual, a guide in which measures or instruments are to be implemented by municipalities. Then each municipality is set to invent the wheel on its own. I think that's a desperate situation for the municipalities, as the situation is today, where they have very little experience of what means they're going to use. There is a need for more action — and preferably more quickly. The Syrians have not just gone out, they have now begun to come home and have acquired this experience. The Labour Party and Hadia Tajik have previously challenged the Minister of Justice to see Denmark, to Århus. There they have developed a work model where municipalities and police cooperate closely on the prevention and follow-up of Syrians, where they establish trust in parents – groups where municipalities and police cooperate with their parents while their children are in Syria, for the benefit of both parents and authorities, so that parents dare to tell the police if they are afraid that their children are doing something wrong, and where they use mentors who may be positive role models and sparing partners for young people who are being radicalised, or who come back from countries like Syria with experiences that can make them a danger to others, or even a danger to themselves. This is a work model that is widely transferable to Norwegian conditions. I hope the Minister of Justice uses this opportunity or similar models when he presents his follow-up to the decision of the previous government on a new action plan against violent extremism.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1840	As part of the presentation of the PST annual report in March, the head of the PST said that as a society we had failed to prevent radicalisation and recruitment to extreme environments. The head of the PST also said that a change of pace is needed. At least 1,000 people have traveled to Syria – if not more. About 50 people have traveled from Norway to participate in the war in Syria in various ways. There are different motives for traveling, and there are very different actions that have been taken. Scientists and authorities state that some – and I am clarifying some – of those who have travelled to Syria are fighting with militant organizations such as Al-Nusra and the Islamic State of Iraq and Levanten, an organization so brutal that even Al-Qaeda has broken all its connections with it. It is very serious that the Nordics go to Syria and join terrorist organizations. Planning, implementation and training in terrorism are punishable, even if this occurs outside the borders of the country. However, these are issues that are very difficult to investigate. As I said at the outset, not everyone who has travelled to Syria has participated in criminal acts. Therefore, it is important when returning that Syrians meet on an individual basis. Individuals must take responsibility for their actions – whatever it may be – but it is also important that society prepares and tries to reintegrate these people into Norwegian society, into school and work. Not least, they must be offered a treatment for the processing of traumatic experiences, to which several of them have most likely been exposed. This is not PST's responsibility. The serious thing about the situation is that these people were first discovered on PST radar. Neither parents, nor school nor work had revealed that such activities were going on, and that such a process was ongoing. Nor is it strange, because PST says that what characterizes many of those who have travelled to Syria is that they have withdrawn from social life, they have isolated themselves, they are very active on the Internet, they have changed their style, they have changed their way of being, and they have changed rhetoric. As the previous speaker pointed out, municipalities need good tools and tools to deal with these people when they return. It's a government task to help municipalities deal with this situation. Not least, it is very important in fact to listen to those who are willing to share their experiences from such a radicalisation process that they have been through. Role models are needed, a support network is needed, and parental accountability is needed to the extent possible. Finally, as the previous speaker said, there is actually something to learn from abroad, among other things. from Denmark, which has a methodology that can be worth looking at, including from the Norwegian team.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1855	Let me, as former speakers, give tribute to the interpellant to raise the question of a principal important clarification and challenge to us. When different principles meet, a balance point is to be found that is well maintained through democratic rules. I think that the Stortinget is taking this debate after Tetzschner's initiative, is good, because very stomach-like Northmen are provoked by the fact that citizens with Norwegian passports travel abroad and conduct what we consider to be terror or terrorist-like acts. If their motive is to commit terror, I shall leave it unsaid, or if they have a different drive to do so, but that the even Northman is provoked by it, I think is raised above any doubt. Therefore, our challenge is that as far as possible it should and should be stopped. The big question is – as the interpellant has raised, and as the Minister of Justice has said: how do we do it in a way that is good, proper and that takes care of the democratic approaches that we want to have? In Norway, we are punishing only exceptional things that have not been carried out. There are a few places in the penal code where you can go in and say that what you're doing now is so serious that you can get punished, even if you haven't done the act. For me, too, it is a basic good principle that we should hang as far as possible. It may be varied and it must be avoided – if the severity so requires. The interpellant was also concerned with gaining war experience. It's doubtful that someone does. Then I think that the motive for that is important – and not least what you intend to use it for afterwards. If you get this kind of experience in order to use it on Norwegian soil afterwards, it's extremely serious, and then you have to do what you can to prevent it. But there is a dilemma here – that is, if someone is to be punished, it is the criminal law to be used. It is the Norwegian police who are going to investigate and file a case, and a Norwegian court is going to say that there is enough evidence to punish someone. I see with some skepticism how Norwegian police, for example. should be able to investigate things in Syria – to use Syria as an example, and on which others have been involved. I think it'll be hard. I think most of us want such an opportunity, but how to do it in practice is more complex than that. Neither do I believe that the Syrian authorities – in order to use Syria as an example once again – are those who will assist us most in this way. There's no doubt. In those cases where we have people who contribute and fight for known terrorist organizations, there is no doubt. There is automatically a criminal liability that you have to take and that you have to follow up. Interpellanten has also focused on Section 147 of the Penal Code. I think that's right and important. In my opinion, it has at least one challenge. That's how it was used after July 22, 2011. It was found that what happened then was not a terrorist act, because you have to make a covenant – you have to be more than one. That law didn't catch up with solo terrorists. I believe that is something the Stortinget has seen in the past, and as the Minister of Justice is aware of the work he will continue to do. If you go back and look at the process when the law was passed, I am reasonably satisfied that the Progress Party in its comments to Section 147 at the time pointed out that for us it was not the number of people, but the severity that should determine whether the law could be used or not. We were alone at that time. It should have been joined by more people. I'm very pleased that we actually did. Then I see that the Minister of Justice, in his reply to the interpellant, has pointed out some of the paradoxes that lie there, that more relationships need to be balanced at the same time. You can prevent going out to some countries, but what if it happens through more transit countries? How do you manage to follow up and control it? Research will also lead to major challenges – me, the Minister of Justice and the interpellant. We have an ambition and a wish, but the goal of getting there I don't think is the easiest. Nor do I believe that a ban will automatically solve all problems. In some cases, one should not be naive, but one should hurry slowly and not trample on a part of the democratic principles that we are otherwise so proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1872	Thank you to the interpellant and to the Council of State. The interpellant travels in a good, systematic and knowledge-based way an important debate, and the Council of State provides a reflected and good response to an important societal challenge. It is only barely a year since the Stortinget passed extensive changes to the penal code that made preparations for acts of terrorism punishable. The matter was dealt with in depth, and it received broad support in the debate and voting on 13 June last year. For the Right there were in particular three principal aspects we weighed in our handling of the matter at the time: First of all, with the changes in the law, we were criminalizing quite a number of new acts. Furthermore, the law changes led us to shift the time when the criminal relationship occurs, earlier in the order of action. Thirdly, we stressed our intention and continued to assess the very existence of a criminal offence. This was a question that we in the Right spent a lot of time assessing, because these issues were both important and fundamental issues that obviously also need to be looked up to fundamental issues such as legal certainty and privacy – which have been discussed in several of the previous articles. Here, in the Right, we placed a decisive emphasis on the fact that both Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the principle of legality are enshrined in the Constitution – our own constitution – § 96 contains a requirement that staff regulations must describe the criminal relationship with a precision that reasonably permits prediction of the conduct that is punishable. How this requirement is to be understood has a bearing on how concrete criminal provisions relating to the criminalisation of preparations for acts of terrorism can be designed. In the view of the Right, the above amendments made this description. Therefore, the Right proposals were supported, and we believe that this will help prevent, and not least prevent, serious estimates against Norwegian society. I fully agree with the state council's clarification that this is a matter for which we cannot at the moment set any final line or draw any final conclusions. This is a case and a topic that is under development and where we cannot deny that new measures need to be assessed. From the Right, we will follow this development very closely. I agree with the inter-pellant approach, where there are in particular two tracks, two strategies, we have to follow in parallel. Firstly, it is a criminal law strategy. It is important to get the most professional input possible. We have skilled trade unions in Norway that follow the situation and developments closely, and we need to listen to the signals they give. Here, the State Council itself pointed to the PST as an important professional body that has this as one of its most important fields of work. The second strategy, to which the interpellant has also pointed out, is to work on prevention strategies outside criminal law, so that we can facilitate local communities, family, neighbourhoods and society in general to become even more effective at revealing the intention at an earlier time, and get this in advance. Both a criminal law strategy and a prevention strategy will be important from the right to emphasise further work on this important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1889	I would like to thank the interpellant for lifting a very important and serious matter. With very different personal and political motivations, the Nordics have traveled abroad many times in Norway’s history to participate in wars, ranging from the civil war in Spain to the winter war in Finland and the eastern front during World War II. History condemns the efforts of these Northmen very differently, it is also natural. The war in Syria is among the most cruel – above all for the Syrian civilian population, who experience enormous suffering. Still, access to food is weakened, and the world is constantly closing its eyes to the abuses that are taking place. It's important that we remember when we discuss Syria, even though the approach angle today is different. There is a rather high number of Northmen who have chosen to travel to Syria to participate in the war. This is a compound group, they have different motives for traveling. The parties to the war are becoming increasingly polarized, several rebel groups are now fighting against each other, and it is clear that the conflict has acted as a magnet for extremists and is being exploited to a large extent by great extreme movements. Over time, the extent of people who view their participation in the war as a form of sacred war has increased. Thomas Hegghammer, at the Swedish Defence Research Institute, has said that Norway has one of Europe's largest quotas for Syria to correct for the population. He believes that three different motivations lie behind the jihad journeys to Syria. The first is political sympathy with the uprising. The second is religious belief that it is an obligation. The third is psychological needs such as adventurous and rebelliousness. He says, ‘Possible penalties must be adapted to the actions of each person. That means you need good intelligence on those who come back. You have to know who they are, what they've done, who they've fought with in Syria and what they do when they get home." For that reason, he is also sceptical about punishing anyone who comes back with war experiences from Syria. We must all strongly warn people against joining extremist movements. We know that fundamentalist ideologists are actively working in Norway to recruit warriors. This traffic is dangerous, and it must be stopped. The ideology now spread by some extreme Islamists in Norway is not to be defended; it is to be combated. Environments such as the Ummah of the Prophet swear to religious dictatorship, they celebrate violence, and they seduce Norwegian youths into a terrible destiny – young people who have so much to give and so much to live for, if they get some help to choose another way. The extreme Islamic environments in Norway are small. They do not represent any political force that could have influence or significance in Norway or among Norwegian Muslims. But the experience with the right extreme forces is that small environments can still be dangerous. We know that too well in Norway. Everyone who stands out as a follower of dictatorship and violence, no matter what background they have and what ideology they claim, deserves to be given the spotlight of society. It is good that the authorities follow them closely, and it is important that we are all clear and protest. In Denmark, as other speakers have also pointed out, the active follow-up of violence and youth in extreme groups and their parents has been successful. It is very similar to the Norwegian police programme, which was very successful when the neo-Nazist and far-right environments of the 1990s were largely dissolved and harmless in Norway. Over time, prevention is clearly the most important. In 2012, SV presented six measures against extremism. They are very similar to those proposed recently by the European Commission. There are exit measures to get young people out of the environment. It is prevention through child protection, schooling, inclusion and psychiatry — the soft preparedness that we do not discuss so much, but that is all the more important. It's more stringent weapon control. It is a strong focus on extreme environments, including Islamic environments. It is balancing security with privacy, and there are floodlights in extreme public environments. We must be tough on the extremists and against the causes of extremism, and we do not have a single Norwegian youth to lose to the ideologies of hate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1922	The debate has shown that the Council of State will have broad support for the appropriate measures that he may wish to promote for the Storting. Since there was a reference to an expert, Thomas Hegghammer: I believe that all of the proposals he has launched publicly are worth studying, without me saying here and now that I want to take the whole range of measures. But what was appealing was that there was such a strong focus on prevention. If it happens that people have to be followed up on a repeat basis through quite extensive surveillance, it is a sign that we have not succeeded in prevention. I have registered a consensus in the debate, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank my fellow representatives for the interest they have shown in the matter by participating in the debate with reflections.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1929	Let me also thank you for a thoughtful and good debate on an important topic. I really think it's good to record that we share reality and reality in an area as important as this. I would like to point out that it is quite right when the interpellant ends by saying that when these former Syrians are in the PST searchlight, there is evidence that we have not succeeded in what we should actually succeed in, namely prevention. That is why I will once again refer to the plan that the government is now putting forward before the summer, a separate action plan against radicalisation and violent extremism. I registered with some wonder that the representative Asphjell could announce that the previous government had taken such a decision. I'm not familiar with that. But the previous government had its own plan against radicalization and violent extremism, and it's this plan that PST actually signals that you have to take some steps away to become more concrete and have what I think PST called a change of pace. Hopefully, this new plan will represent a change in the pace of prevention. The representative, Asphjell, was also concerned that we have now – at a price – a system in which we can inform the municipalities that at least some of them may have received Syrian workers back, so that the municipalities are able to start up the support device that might have to be provided. It's kind of what I can do within my constitutional responsibility. But I think it's important to remember – as the representative of the Rivers pointed out – that here is the individual situation and individual experience, and that it's difficult to place all the former Syrians in one booth. Therefore, I do not think it is easy to find a sort of package solution for how to always treat people who have participated in serious acts abroad. It is, as I have also said before, a complicated investigation task to reveal what has actually been done, what they have done in actions. What is punishable is, in principle, to be prosecuted, but it is very complicated by investigation. In the end, I would like to say that Serigstad Valen's articles were also a reflection and good article in relation to the whole. I believe that many of the measures he mentioned are also measures for which there is very broad political support. I notice that there is a very large consensus on this two-tracked strategy that the committee chairperson Anders B. Werp was also concerned about in his statement, that prevention in a broad perspective is incredibly important, but that it is also important to ensure the criminal law trail. I look forward to having such reflective debates in the future, as well as to proposals from the government on how to do this even better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1946	So the debate is on case No. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1962	The Naudetatas in Norway do a lot of good daily work to save lives and save people's lives. The aim of this interpellation is to highlight the importance of a well-functioning emergency response and to point to an important means of achieving the best possible result when the accident or crisis occurs. The Naudetatans are an important hub in the social wheel. In addition to recognising and strengthening what works well, we need to constantly look at how services can become even better. This is about the competence of all those who daily carry out vital work. How do we ensure that these interact optimally? A potential for improvement is to strengthen communication and the flow of competences between the nudetatatatatatatatatatata. It is therefore important to look at the training and basic training they carry out. An important approach would be to provide a common educational service with a focus on the interaction between nightlife settings. In Norway today, preparedness is being violently discussed at many levels. How do we organise ourselves, how big resources are needed, and how important it is to be stationed, are themes that go back. But a central theme is also how a concretely manages acute emergencies. Police, health, fire services, home security, civil defence and others have important functions when an accident and a serious situation occur. They must be able to communicate well in order to solve the mission optimally. When saving lives, there is no room for misunderstandings and unnecessary confusion about the responsibilities. The tragic event of the Lærdal fire showed just how important interaction is. The noodles in Norway hold a very good professional level. They have all the good training courses that enabled them to do their tasks. This is dedicated people who go to work every day to make our everyday life safer and save lives. When we're in trouble, we need to know that we're getting the best help. But we have to ask ourselves how the sense of role between the etats is: Can it get better? And will help us get, in which case could also be better? Our emergency forces are made up of many different groups, from state added to voluntary forces, and all are necessary pieces in the big puzzle. The police have their clearly defined responsibilities, regulated by law, the health service has its tasks, and the fire department. These are lines that are and should be clear. Damage site work requires efficient and synchronised work between etats and functions. To ensure this is a totally dependent on good interaction. The Norwegian model is based on the fact that we have a cross-sectoral crisis response. Each individual naudetate has different tactics, but together they must achieve optimal preparedness in given situations. How can one do this even better? We in the Centre Party believe that a particularly important step on the road is to establish a cross-sectoral educational provision at the university level, which can strengthen this sense of role. Courses and the like can always be arranged, but it is important to get this into formalised frameworks and avoid being dependent on local or regional initiatives. It will mean a clear advance if you give police officers, ambulance workers and firemen the opportunity to take a short joint study where this problem is central. This is about those who move out to a place of injury, as far as possible, being able to see the same image when they get there, with the aim of making good tactical judgements and acting in a synchronised and efficient manner. In the absence of a common training provision, called a ‘cooperative’ subject, in the educational institutions offering rescue studies, it is reasonable to assume that the staff to establish common mental models are small. A common understanding of what kind of basic tactical challenges exist in a damaged location will make work more likely to happen and better interact with the different actors than if one does not have this common understanding. That one has not been good enough in this area is illustrated by the fact that one today operates with a 1980 rescue manual. There is a need to establish a national standard for cooperatives and damaged sites in emergency situations. As far as I know, there have been initiatives from both the ambulance service and the police high school to establish something like a joint study. There is a strong desire for a collaborative subject to be included in the Higher School offer. It is important that such a course is part of the basic training of new candidates, but also that those who practice today can benefit from such knowledge. That's why it's interesting to hear from the Minister of Justice and Security what kind of thoughts he has about this. In order to achieve continuity and establish a good professional environment, we depend on this subject to enter the university system. Society is developing. In the course of this development, the damage and the opening image could also change. Several sharp situations may occur, and the extent of damage may be enormous. Natural disasters will also occur from time to time. In critical situations, it is important that those who prevent, repair and fight against each other are safe about their roles and knowledge and that they have a fundamental trust in each other. I hope the government will give a clear signal to relevant educational institutions and make sure that they are able to set up a training course with a common course of study quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e1994	Let me first thank the representative Jenny Klinge for a good interpellation. As the representative notes, cooperation and interaction between emergency situations is extremely important and may be crucial for good management of accidents and other major incidents. The government is committed to ensuring as much cooperation as possible between emergency budgets, and, therefore, it is also continuously focused on measures that can help to further develop this cooperation. A little in general, we've had a tradition where, like a lot of other public agencies, the emergency situations have been most concerned that it should look right and neat in their own ditch, without seeing what kind of competence they can take advantage of by seeing each other and seeing each other's resources. It is one of the measures taken by this government immediately after the change of government, namely that one should out of his own ditches and see each other's resources to see how one should interact better and take advantage of the cross-emergency competences. We have been hit by a number of serious incidents in recent years – terrorist attacks, forest fires, fires, failure of the telecommunications network, floods and extreme weather, to mention something. This also illustrates the breadth of some of the challenges facing social security work. One of the most important tasks of the government is to ensure that Norway is equipped to deal with future crises in the best possible way. However, one of the main challenges in the overall preparedness picture is that there are many actors who care for different parts of the preparedness. It is therefore important to take action to ensure a more holistic approach to preparedness. In order to achieve this, we need to look at the whole area of social security and preparedness together and to ensure that policy decisions are also translated into practice. If an improvement in preparedness is to be sufficient, it is important to look at larger aggregates rather than just extract some small pieces of preparedness at a time. The four basic principles of preparedness – responsibility, proximity, equality and co-operation – have continued in the government’s platform. Of these principles, responsibility and co-operation are pledged as supreme and governing. The principle of cooperation clarifies the overall responsibility of the government for social security and cross-sectoral preparedness. In order to ensure the best possible protection and exploitation of cross-sectoral resources, there is a strong need for cooperation across responsibilities. Good interaction between different response actors requires systematic work and development of culture and attitudes over time. In the case of emergency budget training, it is essential to ensure that the crew receive a good and professional basic training. At the same time, as the representative Klinge noted, it is important that emergency situations have a good understanding of cooperation across borders. In the case of studies and training opportunities across emergency situations, as the representative’s interpellation refers to, there are already quite a number of common courses and training courses that are relevant for the purpose of transnational cooperation and interaction between emergency situations. For example, in recent years, the Police College has developed and launched several new education and training courses within the concept of ‘civil crisis and conflict management’. Furthermore, the Judicial Sector Training Centre in fantastic Stavern is established as an operational centre with training facilities such as: complies with the requirements of the deployment of emergency networks. The training facilities facilitate cooperation between emergency situations during training. A good example of the price of better interaction is interaction at the site of the damage. The course is conducted at the Centre for Preparedness and Competence of Civil Protection and is developed in cooperation between the Civil Defence Office, the Police College, the Health Directorate and the Rescue Professional Forum of Voluntary Organisations and the Main Rescue Centres. The primary target group for the course are personnel who hold professional or other operational management functions in establishments normally involved in adverse events, such as: from fire services, police, health services, non-governmental organisations, civil defence and defence. After completion of the course, participants shall be able to conduct operational and tactical response assessments and, through interdisciplinary management, interact with other departments. Otherwise, I am aware that the Police College and the Defence College are conducting a course in national preparedness and crisis management. The study is part of the Master's programme of the Defence College and is also a self- education offer at the Police College. Education is at state level and provides a practical approach to areas where both defence, police and others are training on different scenarios at the same time. These are just a few examples of a wide range of courses and training courses that focus on cooperatives. Another important action for interaction and understanding the roles of each other is cross-sectoral exercises. Last autumn we had, among other things, two national exercises: Barents Rescue and Exercise Tyr. Several smaller-scale exercises are also carried out throughout the year. Practical experience and lessons learned from such exercises enable the establishment to deal with future adverse events in an even better way. A full-scale exercise is also to be carried out next year. The practice has been named Harbour EX15 and will be based on scenarios related to South Harbour in Oslo Centre. During the exercise, the preparedness and interaction related to accidents and incidents in the area shall be tested and the possibility of looking at different points of improvement related to the cooperative. As the interpellant notes, good communication between emergency situations is essential for good interoperability. We are now in the middle of a bet with better communication solutions to strengthen preparedness and better interaction between emergency situations. New emergency networks are under step-by-step development and deployment across the country, with the aim of becoming nationwide by the end of 2015. This will provide a clear boost to preparedness and crisis management by providing emergency facilities and emergency services throughout the country on the same communication platform. The use of emergency networks is also linked to common training of instructors. The course has participants from all the emergency situations and is important in order to provide instructors with a common platform and a common understanding of rules and procedures. These measures show that the government already has a strong focus on preparedness and further development of interaction between the various emergency situations. The government takes this responsibility seriously and is constantly working to improve systems, so that society is best prepared for future crises. It is also the case that the various educational institutions are free to take the initiative themselves to develop their own professional services, and which I have reflected on in this answer, this work is already well under way in many areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2028	I thank the Council of State for your answer. He has a lot of important things to do with this topic, and of course I agree that there is a lot of good that already exists, within the different studies and courses that exist. At the same time, it is important to stress that there is no need for regional and local initiatives to reach a common understanding of the needs of each other’s roles and tasks, for this is about the specific situation at the site of the damage. One thing is to know the responsibilities they have, but something else is actually to be able to work in practice when it clicks, and no matter who comes first, one should be able to make it possible for all of us to save lives. When it comes to the need for a joint study, this does not happen by itself. There are many different actors who make it necessary to look at health and take over, and the Minister of Justice emphasised this too. The Minister says he wants to ensure a good, professional basic education, and he also stresses the importance of a good understanding of this across the board. We were three representatives from the Justice Committee who were in Denmark in February at a 112 conference on preparedness. One thing was that we got to the right a part from Denmark, but not least it was useful that there were invited participants from Norway, who made contributions to the conference, and there were many participants who were representatives and with whom we got close contact during the breaks. You'd like to share a lot of knowledge and get a recording. What we experienced then was that people from the Police College, Oslo University Hospital, the Air ambulance, etc. gave ready feedback that something is missing. In addition to what is of course good, there is something missing, and it is this joint study, which this interpellation deals with. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Justice once again whether he does not see the need to take forward exactly what they have pointed out, and whether he will also work to establish a national standard for cooperative and damaged cities, as a substitute for the out-of-date 1980 rescue manual.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2043	Finally, it would have been very tempting for a new Council of State to reply that it could have taken the initiative of the representative Klinge in the eight years of her own party in government, but I will not go into that trap, even if I was tempted. The answer is actually that we're going to take a closer look at that. I agree that there seems to be something out of date, and we're going to take it further, and we're going to do the problem in a shorter time than eight years. With regard to this cooperation on a joint study, I am a little uncertain as to what the interpellant actually considers that there is a need, in addition to the measures that have already been implemented. It would be interesting in the next interpellant article to get a concrete understanding of where the defects are perceived to be. As I mentioned in the answer, there are a number of offers that take into account exactly what the interpellant really is after, and the educational courses in the various emergency situations are very different. I do not think that the starting point of the inter-pellant is that one should have a common basic education before going to sectoral training. It would have been interesting to clarify what the representative thinks we should take the initiative. I believe that the Police College, in cooperation with a number of other actors, has been very forward-looking to ensure both the provision of further education and the interaction perspective in the training provided by the Police College, and therefore a concreteisation of that would be good. In addition to that, I would like to say that it is important to focus – as the interpellant – on improving the competence of emergency situations, also on interaction. Interaction will be crucial in the future. There will also be a basis for the work of the government in a number of other areas. We also need a knowledge-based approach in this area, and we are open to looking at opportunities that can help to make emergency situations even better able to interact at the site of the damage. I understand that's what's the main starting point of the interpellant. There is an important perspective in a number of the educational services and courses already organised today, and perhaps it is appropriate to develop that concept further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2058	The interpellant addresses an important theme in its interpellation here. This cooperation, interaction and coordination between different emergency situations is important in order to ensure both preparedness and social security in our country. Although these agencies have different roles, different tasks and different responsibilities, it is important that they have good cooperation. It is particularly important in a country like Norway, which is so long-term, where the population is so unequally distributed, and where resources are so differently distributed. Therefore, it is even more important that we have close and good cooperation in these areas. We see today that there is cooperation in many areas, both small and large events that affect us. Every year we experience major accidents and major incidents, not only in the big cities, but also in many small municipalities around our country. Then we have seen that the emergency services and other agencies – the fire department, the police, the ambulance service, Norwegian Public Aid, the Red Cross, other volunteers, the Civil Defense and the Home Office – have cooperated. In some cases they have cooperated well and in others not so well. We saw it in connection with the terrorist act against the government quarter on 22 July 2011. We also saw it when it came to what happened on Ut Island, where several emergency situations cooperated, together with volunteers. It was cooperation in connection with the tragic bus crashes in Årdal. There was not least cooperation during the three major fires – in Lærdal, in Flatanger and on Fröya. We have also seen it in winter at several snow cliffs – last at the snow cliff that took place in the Sunndal mountains, where four young people died. In all of these places, we have learned that various emergency facilities, non-governmental organisations and the Defence have cooperated. But it is important that these actors train. A short time ago, I was in Tromsø with Norwegian People's Aid and attended an exercise in the mountains there. There you had to practice what situations you could face, to save lives, and to do this in a good way. It is clear that each of these actors must train separately, but at the same time it is important that they have a basic education that enables them to know what measures to take when they first arrive at an accident or at a crime scene. Then, of course, it's important that they have courses, and I think that all of these participate in courses in many contexts, but it might be important that this is put in a broader system. In a country such as Norway, there will also be different response times between the different emergency situations. It's about vulnerability, security and how we're going to deal with it, wherever we live in the country. It is important that those who first arrive at a crime scene or accident site have basic knowledge of what to do, both in terms of securing life, securing others and securing themselves, in terms of further danger and events that may occur. That is why I think it is important, as the interpellant points out, how to facilitate through the different courses of study – whether it be police training, ambulance training or fire-constancy training – so that we can have a common platform for what is going to happen, so that this interaction can improve. We have fire schools all around. We have ambulance schools, and we also have political schools. Many of these areas are already in the study. They may not have coordinated well enough, but I have a good enough knowledge of it. That's why I think it's important to train separately, but also to have an education that focuses on this. I have experienced, at least in the last year, that the preparedness for the crisis in many of the municipalities is relatively good. When things happen, there is a good interaction between the agencies, but focusing on this in the years to come will be more important and important, not least in relation to the new reforms that the police reform also provides.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2079	In connection with this important interpellation, I would like to remind the House that Norway's fire school was adopted from Oslo to Tjeldsund in 1991. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of good interaction, training and knowledge transfer today between different departments — but Norway’s fire school — in the natural environment of Tjeldsund — has been built up over 20 years. This does not only apply to the professional development and establishment of infrastructure at a cost of nearly 500 million. kr. There are also good relations with other major actors in the region, such as higher education institutions, municipal fire services, companies in the oil industry, police, health services, defence and Avinor. These partners represent a very important cooperation venue and professional development venue for Norway's fire schools and have contributed greatly to the success of Norway's fire school. Norway's Fire School has established close cooperation with the universities of Harstad and Narvik, and it has been mentioned by many as an important cooperation. This cooperation has resulted in study places for the Bachelor’s Study in International Preparedness. This study is requested and unique in a national context. The colleges of both Harstad and Narvik possess and are important suppliers of competence in the fields of education at the fire school. The University of Tromsø and the University of Nordland have also established cooperation with the Fire School. As has been said, a Bachelor’s Training in International Preparedness has been established with the support of the EU and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Norway’s Fire School has also taken the initiative of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness for the Conversion of Education in order to meet changing requirements for follow-up, evaluation and transfer of experience. It is therefore necessary that, in the course of any planning of training of persons in emergency situations, the knowledge and infrastructure built around the Fire School in Teldensund should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2088	I want to thank the interpellant for raising a very important theme. Good preparedness is about more than localisation and resources. It's also about knowledge, both theoretical and silent. Important knowledge is e.g. what each person does in a loss or injury location. In time, the requirement for cross-traffic interaction will be increased. The understanding of roles between etats becomes more important, the requirements for fast action will be increased. This is a theme that is important throughout the country. Having a good professional foundation, where one is coordinated and coordinated, will be the key to saving lives and acting effectively. It is positive when a signal comes from the agencies themselves that they see the need for education where cooperation between them is a topic. It is due as part of the basic training they carry out, but also as further training. The response personnel are our most important resource. International preparedness conferences often point to the importance of coordination and skills sharing. Many countries may have gone beyond Norway here, and we can have a lot to learn. But I also find reason to add how privileged we are in Norway. We have a high level of competence at the add-on to the emergency units. It's dedicated human beings that all have a common goal. It's saving lives. In my own municipality in Lærdal in Sogn and Fjordane we noticed earlier this year how important it was that the naudetats acted quickly and effectively, and that it was a clear role-sharing and understanding of roles. This made it possible to manage well, which helped to reduce the damage, and it prevented life from being lost. The reasons for this may be many, but they both volunteered and added to the nudetas acting as they should, and they did so quickly. Local knowledge was also important, but the fact that one could share tasks when one knew what to do, and perhaps not do, was important: that one had practised, that one had knowledge, both the theoretical and the silent knowledge that is transferred through interaction. We have also seen that in many places in the country firemen have to perform police tasks and vice versa, simply because the situation is acute and sometimes it can be random who comes first to the location of the damage. Creating an arena where the nudetates meet to develop each other purely professionally will be positive. It is important that the supply is permanent and that people from all over the country participate. Crisis is raging throughout the country, and preparedness is equally important regardless of each cage. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, the hyperbole system is a good track to take this into. As politicians, it is important that we facilitate professional development. We can do this by establishing the provision of etatos that can be useful, simply to get the emergency tank into formal tracks. The law sets out the framework for the tasks of each department, but one will develop a better understanding of the roles of each other simply by providing for the flow of competences and establishing a good multidisciplinary environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2107	Thank you for the debate. It is very important to remember that the actors working in the field of preparedness and rescue are of course different, but they do a lot in common as well. They're supposed to handle situations in layers. Of course, they should know the most about the area they work in, but they should also understand the others. There is no doubt that a common understanding will make it much more effective in the damaged place, and it will also lead to one saving more lives. As I said in my first post, the ambulance service and the Police Department have already taken the initiative to establish a cooperative profession as part of the high school offer. That's exactly what I wanted to emphasize, as an answer now to the Minister of Justice, who wanted me to deepen this more closely. It is not in order to change the level of education or basic training which is in the educational provision of the various actors, but in order to have a common subject which is compulsory, as part of basic training, so as to ensure that the understanding of the roles of each other is best understood. It is very good with the courses and education that exist, but during the conference in Copenhagen – the conference on preparedness, where there were representatives from the police high school and ambulance services, etc. At present, they put great emphasis on the fact that something is still missing. I hope that the Minister of Justice will take this debate into account, that even if there are many good courses, there is something that the Minister of Justice would like to work on to get in place, so that the rescue work will be even better for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2114	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I fully agree that it is important to have a constant focus on developing and improving skills, education and interaction between emergency situations. I think it'll be a work that will go on all the time. It's not a work one sets the finish line for and says: now we're satisfied with the state we have. There is a situation that needs to be developed all the time, and the development of new courses, offers, continuing training opportunities and developments in the relevant disciplines. Good interaction is crucial, but I would like to stress – because debates like this can sometimes give the impression that the situation is worse than it is – that one has to do some great work in order for the interaction to work at the site of the damage – that the main impression today is that interaction at the place of the damage is working well. This does not mean that there is no potential for improvement or improvement. It is crucial – not least in the light of what several speakers have been talking about, where we are in a situation where there will be different response times for different emergency situations, etc. – to enable each other to manage a site of injury and not to be so concerned with their own limits that it could affect the action initiative. My main impression is that we have an incredible number of great, good people in the emergency situations who often take responsibility far beyond what is the limits of their own field of expertise. It is good, and then it is our job to contribute to enabling them to handle it – so that first arrivals can also secure the site and place of employment – in such a way that they feel that they have the competence to do the best possible job. I think we have many good interaction examples, but that doesn't mean we don't have a potential for development. This is why these kinds of debates – with an idea of how this can be done better, how one can increase the focus on interaction in different educational courses – are very important. A number of grips have already been taken. Then I also want to mention at the end, so that this is not just – and it has not been, there have been several volunteers – a discussion about the interaction of emergency situations: the interaction of emergency agents with voluntary organisations is also extremely important. They're part of the backbone of our preparedness. I thought it was interesting that Asphjell mentioned Tromsø. They have a great deal of cooperation with non-governmental organisations, for example: within breed. They have their own race button, where the capacity and speed of volunteers, not least, goes far beyond what they can do, precisely because they are recognised – their competence for assistance is recognised. I think it's one of the most important interactions we can have – that one acknowledges each other's insight, knowledge and ability to contribute in harm spots and in different situations. There is a need to stimulate between emergency situations but also between emergency situations and voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2123	That being the case, it is no. 8 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2129	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2158	During the debate, Mr Sjelmo Nordås put forward a proposal on behalf of the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for secure access to high-speed broadband throughout the country.’ [[100 Mbps]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2185	The centre party announced during the debate on the matter that the party's name had fallen under the Committee's heading for I. The centre party therefore also supports the nomination for I.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2200	During the debate, Anette Trettebergstuen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to develop and present to the Storting measures to halt the development of social dumping, crime and increased safety risks in the transport sector, including the introduction of: 1. Legal, financial and insurance co-responsibility of the contracting entity for the purchase of transport services. [[enterprises]] 2nd@item: inlistbox Regional protection agents for the transport sector which can help to get an overview, as well as to identify, illegally and undesirable conditions in the sector. 3rd@item: inlistbox Strengthen and improve the coordination of Customs, Public Prosecutors, Road Authorities, Traffic Stations and Tax Authorities against the crime of transport. 4th@item: inlistbox Better control and sanctioning options: road authorities and police must be given clearer guidelines and powers to restrain vehicles that are found not to be suitable for Norwegian road conditions. Improvements are needed to improve the possibilities of revealing false driving licences. 5th@item: inlistbox Claims for payment of money on the compulsory toll chips before the means of transport in question crosses the Norwegian border. 6th@item: inlistbox Intensified rules for cabotage operations in freight transport, including assessment of Finnish cabotage regulations. 7th@item: inlistbox Increased equipment and competence requirements for drivers in winter driving: requirements for smooth driving courses for all drivers, as well as stricter quality requirements for winter tyres, including winter tyres requirements for trailers. Eight. A central online register of all transport operations in Norway to facilitate control by authorities. 9th@item: inlistbox How cabotage operations in the tourism sector should be regulated. 10th@item: inlistbox Strengthening information and awareness-raising activities related to social dumping in the transport and logistics sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2260	The Workers' Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will now subsidize the Committee's nomination for I.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2269	In Case No: 4–8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-24.ana.ud1375e2510	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
