ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e35	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Børge Brende and the Councils of State Monica Mæland and Sylvi Listhaug will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We will then start with the first main questions from the representative Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e42	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The Minister of Industry and I were at the Haugesund Conference yesterday. There was industry very clearly on framework conditions, which they are concerned about, and what they talked about most about was the government's tightening of the rules of leave and that this has to be reversed. It has become more expensive and more difficult to be permitted. Westcon, which is a yard, has had to resign 20 employees after the introduction of the new legislation. This narrowing is certainly not a growth-enhancing measure, but a growth-retardant for business. The maritime industry was ready for the government to listen to their and many others’ input – not least listen to the LO, the NHO, the Shipowners' Association and the Norwegian Industry. Will the Minister of Industry be the industry's support player and work for the government to reverse this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e51	Let me first say that the rules of leave we have in Norway are important, and they are good. So it's true that there's been some government intrusions. These are rules that have only been in force for four weeks. I have said that we should follow developments closely. We might see more redundancies. In that case, this is something we have to follow. So the whole purpose of the permitting rules is to keep a staff for a limited period of time. That period should not be too long. And it is that during the period of leave you are not actively looking for work. If it is that we see more redundancies, but where employees get a new job, there is one situation. If we see more redundancies leading to unemployment, there's another situation. I received the recordings – as the representative – yesterday. I have said that we should follow this closely, but it is not that after four weeks we can conclude on these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e58	The Minister of Industry spoke a lot about building skills and increasing competitiveness. The opposite is true with these restrictions, because the consequences are that the companies that are facing a market failure have to quit their employees and lose precious skills, and employees face an uncertain time. I believe that there is a loss-loss situation that the Council of State must take seriously. In Norway, we have strong traditions of tripartite cooperation. In this case, the employer and employee sides are in place, while the government is opposed. Can we get a promise from the Council of State that she will help to reverse these restrictions in a concrete way, or does the Council of State believe that growth-promoting measures – or ‘growth-reduction measures’ – are going so well in Norwegian business that they must actually be involved and contribute to dampening growth?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e67	In contrast to the representative, I am not prepared to conclude on rules that have worked for four weeks. We need to spend more time looking at the effect of the rules. Permitting rules are important, and they're meant to help business, and what I can promise is that of course we're going to follow this development very closely. But there's a difference between people who get laid off, get a new job quickly, or they don't. So this is a situation where you have to save on a staff for a limited period of time. Now we have to follow developments carefully, and we do, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e72	Then it opens for follow-up questions – first Line Henriette Hemdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e75	We in the Christian People's Party take seriously the words of the Council of State that she will follow this development closely. After all, the purpose of the changes that took place at Christmas was to strengthen the line of work, to improve flexibility, not to weaken flexibility. Now that we see that these regulatory changes may possibly have negative consequences, my question to the Council of State is: What measures does the Council of State see as being capable of introducing in other areas in order to remedy these possible negative consequences that may arise?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e82	As I said, I think it is far too early to both conclude and consider alternative measures. We still have very good permitting rules. That's what we're going to have. We will ensure that seasonal work and industry can also hold workers for a given period of time. However, it is an objective that as much work as possible, and it is a problem that the longer the period of leave, the less active you are as a jobseeker. So my starting point now is that these rules are good. We have to follow them. And ending that some companies have gone to lay off rather than permitting – we'll just see how we're moving forward before we come up with proposals for changes or proposals for an alternative way of solving this. We now have a code that is good, and which I think we have to follow a little longer than four weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e87	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e90	The permitting system is an incredibly important system, which ensures that businesses can have professionals – regardless of business cycle, regardless of production fluctuations and seasonal variations. The new government, in its additional proposal, has gone into it for you to tighten up. It got a little bit of that. It is right to tighten up if there is abuse; if there is abuse of any scheme, then a tightening should be done. So what we're talking about here is day-to-day pay under leave, which is an important tool both for the employee and for the employer. My question is, what abuse is the government looking at here, which one wants to knock down and thus wants to tighten up? If it's not abuse, shouldn't you tighten up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e100	It was not an abuse that led to a change in the rules; it was a wish that the least possible were out of work for longer periods. In 2012, the average percentage was 5000. It is closer to 9 000 fewer than for 2009. So there's going to be fewer and fewer going on, and that means that the need for the arrangement is less. For those who are going to use the system, we need to have good rules, and we have, but we want as much as possible to be at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e105	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e108	I want to remind the nutrition minister that there is a difference between how easy it is to get work, depending on every cage around the country. That's not all that's like in Oslo. On Monday I was at Elkem Bremander. They were very concerned about the increase that had taken place in the costs of the enterprise, just when it applies to the permitting rules. I wonder: how long does the Minister see that it has to go before she is willing to intervene, when one sees the outcome of these rules? After all, they're the company's most important cards. Is it just in party speeches, or does one actually mean anything about it? Does the Minister understand business criticism, that Norwegian companies are weakening competition conditions at a time when the government itself believes that there will be more permissive practices?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e117	I know well the differences in the country, and I'm probably one of those who know the least about the situation in Oslo, if that was the point. We listen carefully to business, we listen to the input that comes, and that's a good basis for any change to bring about both debate and speculation about what is actually going to happen. We've seen a significant decrease in the number of lay-offs. That's very good. Those on leave should be there for as short a period as possible. And I can just repeat that four weeks' working time for a prescription, not on a very close basis to draw any conclusions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e126	Johnny Ingebrichtsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e129	The Council of State here says that the rules of leave are good, and the intention is to keep a staff. I have 34 years of seagoing service as a business owner and a driver, and I have learned that it does not just keep up with, as the Council of State says, you also have to act. In recent times, we have read and heard, and we have talked to businesses, business owners and workers, and the companies are forced to give up the important competence of the workforce, through redundancies resulting from the additional operating tax and the associated permit rules, which we have adopted. What will the Council of State say to those people who lose their jobs because of this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e138	We have good permitting rules, and we still have to have them. We also have a good business policy. When I meet the business world around the country, they are very happy about the state budget, as they are. contains growth-promoting tax cuts and significant investment in infrastructure. This is important. We're getting reactions to the new permitting rules. We will listen to them, but it is too early – after four weeks – to conclude that this works against its purpose. I don't think that's the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e145	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e148	The known Millennium Goals, which will help us fight poverty, are to be achieved by 2015, and we are seeing great progress. 15–20 years ago, there were 35,000–40,000 children who died every day before they were five years old. Today, the figure is down to ‘only’ 17 000 to 18 000 children who die every day before they reach the age of five. At the same time, there are major challenges. There are still one billion people living in extreme poverty. That is why, in our opinion, it is important to turn more assistance into education, health and business development and to create jobs for the poorest. Education is important for building democracy. It is important to build knowledge, which in turn can create jobs. Specially girls' education is important, because it educates an entire family. I know that, later today, the foreign minister and the Crown Princess will attend and open an exhibition about child brides. Unfortunately, 14 million minor girls are being coerced every year, according to the United Nations. It also turns out that if you train girls, they get married later, and you can fight the important problems. There is no doubt that aid is important. The OECD just evaluated Norwegian aid, and they said that Norwegian aid is mainly good, but that it is also a potential for improvement. They said that the concentration of aid could be in fewer countries, or that most of the money goes to some selected countries. They said we have to get better at trade, so that the poorest can sell their goods. They said that the forest money we set aside can be used better than it is today. They said that the grossing-up messages that the red-green government made were too little concrete. They said there were great opportunities to use the oil fund to invest in poor countries. The world is changing, so there are many countries that are growing up, and it will yield good returns. They also said that the consensus reports were too little fruitful: we give with one hand, but we take too much back with the other. My question is, how will the Foreign Minister follow up that report, which he said was very good, and which he wants to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e176	Thank you for a very important question, and many of the premises in the question I can fully join. It is important for Norway now to take seriously the OECD report put on the table. It was very constructive. It acknowledged Norway for a forward-looking development policy, but we can also improve it. We run development assistance in 112 different countries. The OECD says that it's probably beyond what's effective, and if we concentrate this a little bit more, we can get more money back, and we can also follow this up more. The OECD also recommends that we do more in the field of industrial development. Making a developing country go from being poor to becoming a middle-income country is one of the most complex things to do, both in economic theory and in how to make the most of this in general. But the OECD says that it is a prerequisite to have a critical mass of investments and the private sector investing in jobs and creating jobs. So the government will also more facilitate a robust private sector. It is also right, as the representative stresses, that we must have an even stronger focus and searchlight on this with efficiency in assistance in general. We need better control systems and a clearer profile in combating corruption. In fact, in many countries 20 pst disappear. by the value creation of corruption. This is unacceptable, and Norway needs to support processes that strengthen these mechanisms in countries. You can not only look at developments as just development aid, as the representative also stresses. Trade, e.g. access to our markets, too many developing countries are more important than the actual assistance we provide. Foreign investment in these developing countries is also more important than aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e191	I thank you for a good answer. I can also agree with the premises of the Foreign Minister's reply. It also shows that there are going to be some changes in the field. The OECD report, as I said, said, inter alia: that the reports of agreement delivered today are controlled by each minister, so if the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to have criticism in the areas of other ministers, they must accept the criticism – which will not happen. It shows that if you are to achieve the coherence of the policy, in order to create the best possible development, you have to do something about it. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is so offensive to investment, because I believe, as the OECD also points out, that we have enormous opportunities to use the oil fund to invest in poor countries, which can both yield good returns and create jobs. My question is, when we see that there are some changes, and the Christian People's Party is very much in agreement with much of that, will the Foreign Minister come to the Stortingen with a statement, so that the Stortingen can have a good debate on the important changes that may come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e203	I would like to explain to the House about a future-oriented development policy. First comes the foreign policy presentation during the spring, where there will also be an important element. The first question that the representative also raised was education. Education is a prerequisite for development. Unfortunately, the education element in the Norwegian aid has fallen from about 10 pst. of assistance in 2005 to be now around 5 pst. I agree with the representative that we must raise education as an important element. If girls do not have access to education, there will be no development in that country. It's also an element that we'll come back to, and that we'll follow up. Development is demanding, but as President Obama says, when his father left Kenya in 1960, they were at the same level of development as South Korea. Today, South Korea has a GDP per capita of 20 times that of Kenya. I think that's something to learn from when it comes to the role of the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e212	It opens up three follow-up questions – first Astrid Aarhus Byrknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e215	One of the points announced by the government that they will look at is a greater geographical concentration of Norwegian development assistance. The OECD report, which has recently been published, points out that the 20 largest beneficiaries of Norwegian aid over time have suffered a severe reduction in their share of the aid budget. From the Christian People's Party's side, we are positive to such a review to focus more on the large, long-term state-to-state aid for fewer countries. On the other hand, we do not need to have the same approach to the efforts of voluntary organisations in cooperation with their partner organisations. By small means, these make an invaluable effort. If voluntary organisations are to benefit from their special advantages, they must be able to do so in cooperation with their partner organisations without being subject to the same geographical boundaries as the heavy state-to-state assistance. Does the Foreign Minister agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e224	Thank you for the question and also for agreeing to the general principle of concentration. Now, concentration in itself is not an objective, but what the OECD also states in the report is that if you run development aid in 112 countries, it requires a lot of bureaucracy and administration, and you have to make sure that the assistance comes to those who need it and that it works as it should. There's a big responsibility. Often you look at the administrative costs, and you don't have to look at them blindly, because having good follow-up and good auditors increases the administrative costs, but it reduces the possibilities of abuse. With regard to the voluntary organisations that provide assistance through Norwegian funds in very many countries, the Norwegian authorities are not exempt from following up on the correct use of that money, so here too we need to have a lot of the expertise that we need in the field of state-to-state assistance. I hope that we can have a good dialogue with both Stortinget and voluntary organisations on how to manage to maintain diversity, but at the same time red tape.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e231	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e234	It is easy to endorse the principle of greater concentration, but the entire aid Norway is waiting for is a signal from the Minister of Foreign Affairs about which countries he wants to cut out. It is related to the representative of the Christian People's Party that very many small organisations in Norway are working with human rights organisations in Latin America, with women's groups all over the world. What's important in aid policy is that we run state-to-state assistance with some countries, but in most countries in the world it's about building up a form of government, a civil society, where people have the opportunity to participate, and where there is democracy. I will, like the Christian People's Party, give a very strong signal that I believe that this kind of assistance is very important to continue, and that you don't have to look blindly at the principle of reducing the number of countries at any price. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Which country and parts of the world will he cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e241	I find it interesting to note that Huitfeldt's representative now is very busy following this principle of concentration and getting an answer from the government. A few weeks ago, I received an OECD report on the table recommending to concentrate Norwegian assistance a little more, because we lose too much money on being so scattered, because then we get less effect from the assistance. Of course, I have to take this seriously. I don't think I'm doing my job if I don't go through this. But because there are many organisations and many countries involved, I cannot reach these conclusions within a few weeks. I must now say that this is a principle that we will look at in more detail. We want to focus, but we also need to have a good dialogue with civil society. We need to have a professional, wide-ranging investigation in the department, and we also need to think through, among other things. the questions raised by the representative on the rights of indigenous people, etc. We will be able to conclude on this in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e246	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e249	I notice that the Foreign Minister is now busy with percentages of aid policy. That's interesting. The last time he was in the Storting was the tone another, but I promise to notice it for the next budget presentation. I want to ask about the assistance to a country that is following a research I'm talking to, has never been mentioned in a question hour in the Stortinget ever, namely the Central African Republic. There's a supposedly the worst humanitarian disaster in the world now. At least half a million are on the run, and millions are starving in a country that really doesn't work. They don't have the police, they don't have the defense, they don't have the health system that works, they don't have the education system. They have had many decades of mismanagement, but are now in an acute conflict situation and an acute humanitarian situation. The Foreign Affairs Committee was recently in the United Nations, and I'll call it a desperate cry for help, because there are no major powers that have interests, no countries that care, and they don't get what they can mobilize. Norway now has 6 million. kr more. That's good. But will Norway take the lead in a large-scale humanitarian international effort through the UN of the world country that may need us the most now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e256	Like the situation in Syria, developments in the Central African Republic are now very worrying. One of the first things I did as a new foreign minister was to increase the appropriations for the Central African Republic in December. I also followed up with a two-day appropriation following talks I had in Addis Ababa with the leadership of the African Union, which is now also sending peacekeeping forces to the Central African Republic under the mandate of the United Nations Security Council. The humanitarian crisis and the conflicts, the civil war, which is now taking place in the Republic, are very serious. It's random killing, it's assault, and there's a lack of all the basic goods. Norway will continue to stand up, and we would also like to take a lead in the humanitarian field, among others. in the case of appropriations. But I would remind you that France, as a member of the Security Council, was early out sending forces into the Central African Republic, so everyone hasn't been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e263	The President will open up a fourth follow-up question, from Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e267	I welcome the clear signal from the Council of State on an increased Norwegian focus on stimulating business in our aid partner countries. There is currently an interesting debate on whether the State pension fund abroad is to be a political instrument and, of course, a foreign policy instrument. Of course, there is a rather absurd debate, given that it is difficult to claim that there is no political impact of this huge investment. But the interesting question is that the government has announced a desire to use State pension funds abroad to a greater extent for investments in sustainable business and renewable energy in the future. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will contribute to the progress of this planning and, for example: already trying to get it into concrete discussion in the communication on State pension funds abroad in this session?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e274	I am pleased with what I see as support from the representative Hansson in the field of private sector and business as well in our development policy. This is, after all, clearly recommended by the OECD as well. One of the major challenges facing many developing countries now is to create enough jobs. Only in the Arab world must 70 million new jobs be created by 2020. On the issue of the State pension fund abroad, which has the strictest ethics rules of any pension fund globally, and which is a global leader in this way, the representative is well aware that the constitutional responsibility for the State pension fund falls to the Minister of Finance. She is handling it very well, and we have a good dialogue on many important issues regarding the state pension fund abroad. I recommend the representative to ask me the questions he is now asking, to the Minister of Finance, as the right Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e281	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e284	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. More and more attention has been paid in recent years to the importance of good preparedness. We as countries must take into account that the unmistakable can happen. Access to adequate and safe food is an important part of our national preparedness. In Norway, food safety is often taken for granted, although global food production is becoming increasingly unpredictable. International food prices are at a higher level than before and the fluctuations are greater. Only 14 pst. of all the grain produced in the world comes ever into export-oriented trade. All countries are primarily concerned about having enough for their own people. In Norway, we do not have cereal stocks at all, and worldwide, you expect the grain stock to reach for only 70 days. When we also know that 9 of the last 15 years have been under-production of cereals, we see that this goes wrong. The centre batch will reintroduce rescue stocks of cereals. The red-green government proposed 5 million. kr for setting up an emergency stock, as the Right and the Advance Party cut off in their budget, and instead more investigation and bureaucracy has been announced on a matter that was investigated in 2013. The Progress Party has programmed the establishment of an emergency storage facility for cereals corresponding to the nutritional needs of the population for one year. My question is: why then does the Council stop setting up food aid stocks? And will the Council of State confirm or deny that the formulations of the Progress Party in its programme on this matter are at hand?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e295	It's a little easy to look at the history of cereal stockpiles when we first discuss it. Until 2003, a stockpile of cereals and flour had different locations in Norway. This was liquidated by the Bondevik II government following a State budget proposal and decision in 2002–03. It was shown that the changes were in line with St.meld. 17 for 2001–2002 on social security. That was when it was terminated in practice. The red-green government also asked the question in connection with St.meld. 22 for 2007–08 Social security, interoperability and coordination, which did not require the establishment of a storage room for cereals at that time. Then the government presented its budget for next year, where we made the assessment that it is not necessary at this stage to set up a stockpile. A decision was made in Stortinget that we should investigate the question further. The government will do that, and we will come to the Stortinget on a later occasion with what we think about that question. So at this point we're going to figure out, and then we're going to get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e302	I thank you for the answer, and then I think it's most important in this room to have looked at what's going on, not what's happened. One topical issue now is that Stavanger Havnesilo is the country's only storehouse for cereals. It may store cereals corresponding to the import demand for cereals for one year. The owner now wants to sell the plant, so that the grain silos can be replaced by exclusive dwellings. Right-wing representative Siri A. Meling said to NRK Rogaland on Monday that it was not a good deal to put these silos out for sale now. We know, as confirmed by the Council of State, that there's going to be an investigation of the issue, and we know that the cost of building a new facility will be significant. So my question is: does the Minister of Agriculture see that it may be more difficult to achieve the goal of establishing an emergency stock – as it says in her own programme – if the plant is sold before the government has concluded the matter? Will she stand on for not to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e309	I have a great deal of understanding that the representative Pollestad wants to look forward, because what is fact after eight years of red-green government is that the self-storage rate in Norway has gone down, and that we are importing more food than ever before. Then it's like we don't see it as the government's role to go in and manage listed, part-private companies. I am sure the Minister for Industry will be able to explain more. It is also the case that a record production of flour is expected internationally in 2013 and 2014. In fact, production has increased as population growth has increased, and global grain consumption has been in line with what is actually produced. So these are questions that we'll come back to, but we don't intend to intervene in a partially private listed company.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e314	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e317	It is quite correct, as the Council of State says, that food security, the degree of maritime supply of agricultural products, has fallen below the former government. Therefore – when the Council of State says it – one should take it seriously inwards. The fact that there are good crops in 2013–2014 is quite uninteresting, because this has to be seen in the longer term. Stavanger Havnesilo was built for the state's sake, transferred to Statkorn Holding for a lick and nothing and implies enormous economic values. It's about to be destroyed. It'll be a huge loss. My question is, why can't the state buy it back for the price it sold it, and the market regulator Common Purchases operate it, so that we can do something about food security, as the Council of State initially pointed out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e324	For the government, it is important first to do the investigation, present it to the Stortinget and get a decision in Stortinget on whether to have an emergency stock, before we go in and possibly buy grain silos. I am concerned that we should ensure food safety in Norway. There is nothing to suggest, at least at this stage, that there is no international concern about producing more grain as the population grows. But now we're going to look at this question. We're going to follow up the report that the SLF has made, to ask the question in more detail and come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e331	Knut Storberget – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e335	On the contrary, it is rather uncertain whether the global community can produce enough food and enough grain. In 8 of the last 14 years, you've actually produced less than what we consume. The world's grain stocks are historically low, it's down to 70 days, until Easter. It would be interesting to hear the kind of implementing power needed to ensure an emergency stockpiles in Norway for cereals, and not least, the most important thing, how to fill such a stockpiles – self-production. I noticed that in his blog, Høre’s agricultural policy spokesman, Ove Trellevik, says that Norwegian farmers and Norwegian agriculture can for the future rely on buying more of the feed grain at import – from a global market that is very uncertain, especially because of climate change, etc. Does the Council share the view that we can base Norwegian agriculture on importing more of the feed grain?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e340	Imports of feed grain have been important throughout all time, and it will be important further. What we're focusing on is that we're going to produce as much food in Norway as we need. That's why it's important to look at how we run agriculture. In terms of climate, Bioforsk did a survey where you went in and looked at the way the agronomy happens, which showed that if you have good agronomy, fertilisers right, gets a bigger crop than if you're not so good. These are issues that will be important in the future, to ensure that we get better production on the areas that we have. Then I hear that the representative Storberget says that we don't produce enough grain, but the information I've been given is at least that global grain production is increasing as the world consumes, also with an increasing population.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e347	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e350	I want to make one thing clear first: we in the Christian People's Party are for a stockpile of grain. We have put forward proposals on this subject in this Chamber, for example: in the context of the agricultural notification. With regard to the party programmes, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party agree on this point, and it's actually a little rarity. But then to the specific matter. We have a grain silo in Stavanger owned by a company in which the state is a large owner. I wonder if the Council of State sees the paradox in that while we get the investigation – an investigation that the Christian People's Party and the Left got in place on this issue – we might sell something that we need to build up at a later stage? Does she at least see the paradox in the problem that is being raised today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e357	I believe that when the state owns companies that are listed, where there are private owners, it is important that we act in a neat manner. Then, of course, I am concerned that we should make a good investigation and come back to Stortinget with a proposal as to whether or not we should set up a stand-by warehouse. In terms of agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, I have to say that I think we got very well into the cooperation agreement that underlies the government's accession, and I look forward to further good cooperation with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e364	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e367	Food is the world's most important product. Therefore, ensuring the security of the population for food is a major responsibility for all countries. State councils say that the sea level has gone down in recent years, and her sea is coming from a party that wants to have the rescue warehouse. So now the Council of State says that she wants better production on the areas we have, i.e. on, for example. Our cornfield. Then it's close to asking about the Council's view on soil protection of just these important areas on which we can produce cereals in Norway, because there are not large parts of the country where we can produce cereals. These are vulnerable areas. Many of them are very close to densely built strips and are under pressure in terms of expansion. So far, the Council of State has shown a much greater willingness to give other industries priority over agriculture. Will the Council of State stop the degradation of the grain soil?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e374	We've had soil protection batteries in Stortinget many times that far. I'm concerned that we're going to have a strict soil protection, but that we have to balance it for social reasons. That's going to be the line that we're going to continue. With regard to the matters that were much discussed, in Trondheim and in Vestby, there were issues that both the Right Party and the Advance Party before the election were quite clear that we were going to give green light for if we came to government. We need a rigorous soil protection, but we also need to take account of social developments. Then I can't help talking about food safety: I mean the most important task we have is to ensure that consumers find goods in the store and get the food they want. The situation in the last eight years was probably similar. that we had a butter shortage. I think it is important to make sure that we produce enough food and make sure that the shops are filled.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e387	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e390	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The government has set itself the objective of reducing the cost to business of reporting by 25 p.m., or 15 b.m. kr, by 2017. It's a goal that the Left fully supports. The left, however, looks with great concern at the signals that have come from government over the past few weeks. I would like to point out that on the same day that the Council of State announced the target of 15 billion. in the case of savings, the government suspended, in principle, the decision of the Storting to reduce the retention obligation for accounting documents from 10 to 5 years for an indefinite period. At best, it will take one more year to implement the Storting decision. The reduction in the retention obligation is intended to constitute a saving of several hundred million kroner. From the date of accession of the Government, a total of 100 new regulations have been adopted and they have been published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. As far as I have registered, no one has disappeared. In recent years, the left has proposed a number of simplification measures for Norwegian business. Among other things, we have the proposed minimum deduction as an alternative to proof of deduction costs for self-employed persons. We have proposed to double the annual VAT burden and payment limit and to simplify the entire VAT system through equal VAT on food. The question is: what concrete action and proposals does the government have, which reduces the costs to businesses? When can the Storting expect the Storting's decision to reduce the retention obligation to five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e405	First, to the Accounting Act. As the representative says, Stortinget has taken a decision to reduce the retention obligation to five years. It shall apply. It is a problem that from the notification of the decision in August, until it was taken in December, no work was done on this. This government cannot take responsibility for that. On 5 December, the Board of Directors adopted a decision on the five-year retention obligation, but with access for the Ministry of Finance to lay down transitional rules. That's what the Ministry of Finance is working on. For a good number of documents, the five-year obligation has been introduced. For some documents there would be a temporary transitional arrangement. The reason for this is – as the Stortinget saw it – that it is necessary to review which documents still need to have a 10-year period, for example. investigation of financial crime. My clear impression is that this is working with the Ministry of Finance on blasting, just to get these rules in place. Then they ask about the government's simplification work. It's hard work here. We've done twelve simplifications. 17 measures are being implemented. A hundred new ones are at the door. There is a wide range of measures, which deal with public procurement, supervisory and control activities, travel bills, the EU Accounting Directive – I could list. A lot of people are at work. As for the statement about 100 new regulations, it's saying that we've listed 88 new regulations in the first 100 days. 43 concerns the area of fish. They are time-limited and largely replace the regulations that have fallen away. No new regulations have been introduced for the Ministry of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e419	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad there's a process going on. I still have to go back to the number of new regulations. I'm familiar with how it works in the fishing industry, that it comes a little bit from time to time. I could plan to follow up a little bit with what goes on the rules. State Secretary Eirik Lae Solberg says to Today's Business on 30 January this year that the government «will set up an independent regulatory board». That of course is excellent. That's something that Left took the initiative here in the Stortingen several years ago, and that we also got through to in the budget conciliation in the autumn. My follow-up question to the Council of State concerns the short and good practice of the Right election campaign word ‘implementation force’: when will a Norwegian independent rule board be established?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e426	I can assure you that the work on establishing a regulatory board is in progress. Then we have to look at the form and content of the Board of Governors. The whole point is to debureaucratic, not the opposite. We're working on a bomb, and I hope that in the course of the year we'll be able to give feedback on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e431	It opens for two follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e434	My follow-up question relates to the executive power of the government. In June 2013, the Stortinget decided to amend the Share Act in order to allow one to enter a limited liability company electronically in the corporate tax register. The problem is that neither is this big decision, which will inevitably lead to monthly business simplifications, implemented. I assume that the reason why it's not in place is that the electronic solution is not ready. The company legislation – and therefore the responsibility for following up the decision to collapse – has now been transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, which also manages the Business Register. My question is simply whether the Council of State can promise that one will be able to form a limited liability company electronically during 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e443	I've learned to be very careful with promises. Lifts must be held. Electronics isn't always something you can rule politically. But if it is possible politically to promise this – within what is possible to rule politically – I promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e450	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e453	No government has been close to delivering as good simplification measures for business as the red-green government did under Minister of Industry Trond Giske. Nevertheless, it seems that the government will copy the Swedish simplification system, with increased red tape by introducing a regulatory board for this work. In six years, Sweden decreased — by three times as many enterprises as Norway — by 6.8 billion. kr. In one third of the time, Trond Giske reduced more than 5 billion. kr for business. My question to the Minister of Industry is: why does the Council of State want to copy Swedish simplification policy and not former Minister of Industry Trond Giske's simplification work, which is much more effective?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e460	Let me say that I fully agree with the questioner that a good work was started from the red-green government – late, but well. Something was done at the end of its eight-year period. We have compared what happened in the first 100 days of the previous four years with the implementation of 88 new regulations this year. The average there was 120, so there's been a significant change just on the one last year, where you've gone from 120 to 88. There's no point for the government to copy Swedish schemes that don't work, it's a point to make your own arrangements that work. We believe that as important as removing regulations, it is to ensure that we do not get new laws and regulations that red tape and that make it demanding for business. That's why we're going to spend some time finding our Rules Council, our way of dealing with this with Norwegian eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e469	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e472	My question goes to the Minister of Industry. The acquisition of knowledge by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which led the Ministry of Economic Affairs, shows that the possibilities in the north are enormous. A conclusion from the knowledge acquisition was that future growth and prosperity in Norway depend on the use of opportunities in the north. In particular, there were the green possibilities in the north, where petroleum and gas end up in an eighth place. It's fishing, it's breeding, it's travel, etc. However, it has not been established that these possibilities will be put into effect. It's a political question, it's about investing. It is also not known that these possibilities will benefit the Nordic countries. After the new government came to power, there has been a systematic cut-off of investments in North Norway. The regional development funds, which have been decisive in developing an infrastructure for coordinating innovation and development in North Norway, have been cut by one third. The large fishing effort, on whitefish, on the Marine Value Creation Programme, has been drastically cut. Guide plug-ins, fish plug-ins and line-on plug-ins have been severely cut. In agriculture, there has been a sharp cut, and in forests it has also been our big cut. My question to the Minister of Industry is therefore: as Minister of Industry, what is the nutrition strategy for North Norway in all the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e483	The knowledge that the questioner refers to and its conclusions are not, in fact, clear until 31 March. Then it is to be presented in Svolvær, familiar to me. Then the questioner may have information about the work we haven't been presented, but we're waiting for the reports and the analyses that have been done. We know that a broad work has been done in many areas. I fully agree – North Norway has great opportunities, and as a country, we have to bet on those opportunities. The government does. We've put extra effort into mineral mapping, we're now working on a travel life message, looking at how we can exploit the potential of the world getting more time and more money. There's North Norway in the front to be able to pick up a potential. In the case of fish and agriculture, I leave to the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Agriculture to answer for it. But it's not right that we've cut off in nutrient research. On the contrary – the industrial research systems, SkattenFUNN, BIA, which also participates in North Norway, have increased during this government. It is true that there has been a shift from regional business development to infrastructure. If someone calls for more transportation, it's just business in North Norway. I'm optimistic on behalf of North Norway. I think we'll see a lot of exciting activity in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e493	This is starting to be a pattern. Yesterday, the municipal minister gave a speech – which, in my opinion, was completely inconclusive – about the possibilities in the north, in Kirkenes. If a read the number, I think most of the people in this room will be some in that he actually contained nothing. Similarly, the answer from the Minister of Industry here is inconclusive. A talk about amazing possibilities in the north – at the same time, a carpet pulls under the bet to be in the north. The acquisition of knowledge was made last summer. Self the great findings, with the scenario and all that, will be presented – as the minister is quite right – but it has already been concluded in many, many areas. I was present at the presentation in Tromsø. So my question is again: here one cuts into taxes, which is negative in North Norway, a cut in important industries, a cut in regional development funds, etc., etc. What is the concrete strategy of the North Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e502	I have some problems understanding the questioner. The taxes were also cut in the north. In Northern Norway, too, business benefits from changes in the property tax that the inheritance tax has been removed. We increased the focus on nutrient research. It also enjoys North Norway. We have launched a survey of the possibilities for mineral extraction. It's good for North Norway. In a number of areas, we do a lot of things. Then we'll look at the presentation we're expected to get on March 31st, look at what's lying there, and actually evaluate it. But I think it's too soon after four weeks to establish that this government is dragging the carpet under North Norway. I don't think the questioner has any evidence to believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e507	Five follow-up questions are raised – first Johnny Ingebrichtsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e510	We see that in the north the petroleum is partially supplied by an established environment in the south. This is rather seawater over optimism in the north. Large fishing group like Aker Seafoods wants to shut down their production companies with hundreds of employees. This throws ice blocks at the municipalities that are being affected. There's murmuring in the north, yes there's uprising going on. Does the government see the need to act now to preserve the jobs and businesses in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e515	I feel that we live in two realities – and it is possible that we do. My ambitions and my belief in North Norway are obviously much higher than some representatives from North Norway have. I had e.g. meeting with the municipality of South Varanger on Monday. They have great plans just to be able to handle the petroleum activity. It is not that municipalities in the north leave it to municipalities in the south. On the contrary, there are important plans going on to be able to become part of the adventure you have seen in other parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e522	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e525	The Solberg government has reintroduced both business neutrality and something new that is geographical neutrality. What the Minister's answer to questions here is that the mapping of minerals plus a new message for travel life should speed up the industry in the north. There is a mineral strategy, which is very good, and there is also a travel strategy, so this is not exactly action. The reduction — as referred to here — in regional development funds with no more than 30 p.p., the changes in the innovation signals in Norway and the removal of the whole whitefish industry action package show that the nutrition research in white fish was taken away by this government. It is also cut in forestry and agriculture. This is a general weakening of the districts and, in addition, a special weakening of North Norway. I want to give the Minister a new chance to respond to what concrete measures will be taken in the short term for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e532	I have recorded that the previous government made a number of strategies. Strategies aren't very important, the point is what you do with those strategies. What we're doing in the mineral field is actually giving money to identify the possibilities for this industry. What we're doing with travel life is actually going in and looking at both the structural project we know was started, and on what instruments actually hit. There is an enormous amount of money spent on travel, and we must ensure that these are used as best as possible. Nord-Norway has benefited from the state budget, which contained tax cuts, which contained investment in infrastructure, which contained business-promoting research. So it's the way that the sense is well distributed – I obviously have to repeat that to the boring – and the good ideas also live in North Norway, they live in West Norway, they live in South Norway. So they don't just live in Oslo, although there's a lot of good ideas here, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e539	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e542	Norway is a country rich in mineral resources, and especially in Northern Norway. We have had huge growth in the use of minerals – perhaps especially in technology. Not everyone knows we're going with a little gold reserve in our pocket, in our cell phone. It's a hidden tax for many of us. The previous government put forward a mineral strategy. But the follow-up to this strategy was well marked by little predictability. It was a department that said yes and a department that said no. Then there will be little action to the seventh and last. My question is therefore: how will the Council of State facilitate sustainable investment in the mineral industry in Norway, which will also be very important for North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e551	As the questioner, I also saw Newton on Sunday and was surprised that we were wearing gold in our pockets. It is that mineral industries can have great opportunities. I'm going to a big mineral conference in Trondheim tomorrow, and I'm really excited to hear what you're thinking about this. Let's actually map the possibilities that exist. We have to do that before we go in and make further plans for this. So it's like there's two issues for treatment, and that's what the questioner really thinks about. They have been lying for several years because different departments have not agreed. So let's do something about that. We have to respect that the Planning Department in the Ministry of Local Affairs will do its job and that the Ministry of the Environment will do its job, but we have to clean up so that one department cannot ruin the case. We are now prepared to resolve these issues and clean up the plan that is in place, so that the applicants actually get a response.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e563	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e566	Governments are quite right that there are great opportunities in the north. I know, I'm from the north. A major challenge is that there is often a shortage of capital. There are difficulties in making investments, taking big promises that are needed to ensure ring-effects, whether they are mines or other types of business. And, like others, it has been cut off from regional policy instruments. They have only been a small but important contribution to this. My question to the Minister of Industry is: How does the Minister see that the government should contribute to the ring-fence of the opportunities that we have agreed to exist in the north?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e573	The fact that it is cut off in the regional instruments does not mean that North Norway, like everyone else, should not be able to apply for the means we actually have. This is clearly where there is a widespread misunderstanding that North Norway has been deprived of that opportunity – it is North Norway at all. They have the same opportunity as the rest of the country. Then we find that Innovation Norway has a different role in North Norway than in other parts of the country, where Innovation Norway in many cases acts more like a bank, precisely because the capital market there is different. It's still going to – we haven't cut into that. So the access to capital is the same for North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e580	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e583	There are not only many opportunities in North Norway – there are many areas with great growth as well. Swäl district municipalities in e.g. The lofoot is experiencing large population growth. There are two challenges to business. One took up the Center Party, the one about access to capital. The second is access to knowledge and innovation. If what we're doing with a lot of our fish processing today would have been for farmers, we'd have thrown whole cows on the boat and sent them to China to be packed. Let's do it with our fish. There are enormous opportunities for innovation in the traditional industries, but also in the new industries, only areas of expertise that can contribute to such innovation processes are available. So my question to the Council of State is, does she have a strategy for a strong research effort and a strong innovation effort to develop the industries that can become large growth industries in North Norway, and in which there is great potential for increased production?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e592	When we focus on more nutrient-oriented research, North Norway also enjoys it. That's the whole point. The good ideas, the wise environments, are just as much in North Norway as elsewhere. We have not gone into what areas to invest or in which areas to research. We leave that to them with the good ideas to argue for in their applications. This is addressed by Innovation Norway, by Investinor, of the environments we have – it is not something that we politically govern from the Ministry of Industry. We don't want to do that either. We want this to be money that everyone has the opportunity to take advantage of, and those opportunities are increased by increasing the tax resource, by increasing the BIA and by facilitating two seed funds. We still have to focus on this, but the last one is a question for the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e599	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e602	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture and the Government has been taking a fresh look at agricultural policy in the last few months. At least she should – she has created a debate. Everyone is not sure whether reducing import protection, removing concession rules, allowances, accommodation and operating obligations, removing price controls, completing the cooperatives and regulatory roles is what can really contribute to bringing up food production in Norway. We are also not sure if that is what will help us to get sufficient optimism into the industry – even if there is optimism there too. On the part of the Labour Party, we have the view that changes in all kinds of policies, including agricultural policy, should be open. But there's a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin. What is interesting in the proposals that have emerged and that the Minister of Agriculture has promoted in the public domain over the past few weeks is that, first of all, it appears that farmers themselves and farmers' organisations are very critical. It may be more interesting to see in a political picture that even business actors are taking the lead and arguing against it, whether it is a weakening of import protection or, last but not least, the assessment of the role of cooperatives, where employers' organisations, those who organise industry in Norway, say that they are sceptical and in many respects also opposed. So my question to the Council of State is, are these performances and these thoughts from the industry's actors sea – does it make the council think about and possibly change course?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e617	For many years, what I want to call a toughpinning of Norwegian agriculture has happened. One of the major problems is that those who are producers, primary producers, serve too badly. The professional peasants serve too badly. That is why I believe that a new course is needed, and that is the course we have started. It is claimed here that working is critical of us starting a review of the market regulation system. I have not registered that. On the other hand, I have registered that many people believe it is loving that we have a review of these arrangements to see if it can contribute to increased competition and get a system that works better. Yes, even Tine and Nortura are for a review, which is clearly against the Workers' Party. I'm going to keep changing the course, because I think it's absolutely necessary if we're to create a profitable and robust agriculture for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e626	Then I will ask my follow-up question to the Minister of Industry, for this is a policy that is linked. When you do something about the quotas, when you do something about the concession rules, when you do something about the import protection, it also makes sense to those who are going to receive these goods and process them further. We have a very large and powerful food industry in Norway that produces a lot of food for us. And as I was concerned with my main question, the Food Industry Alliance has been taking steps to address the policy promoted by the Minister of Agriculture over the past few weeks and especially the debate on import protection. How does the Minister of Industry assess the situation of the food industry against the proposals made by the Minister of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e637	I notice that conclusions are being drawn on the basis of a budget that is four weeks old. I have not received any enquiries from the food industry, I have not received any dark clouds on behalf of the industry, so so so far there is no reason to worry. Then we'll follow the situation, but my impression is that it's going well, and I, of course, fully support the Minister of Agriculture's assessment of the agricultural policy aspects of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e643	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Odd Omland.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e646	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. In the Government Platform and in several Ministerial opinions, we see that emphasis is placed on a predictable agricultural policy. But, as we also heard on the main issue, the government and the minister have announced that they will look at concessions, quota arrangements and production subsidies, repeal the concession law, housing obligations, bans on sharing and price control and balance soil protection. At the same time, it is also announced that customs barriers should be reduced and, at the latest, market regulation should be made more independent from cooperative organisations. The Minister is rocking here at the core of the agricultural policy for agriculture throughout the country. We record frustration and worry in the industry and now also from business owners. Does the Council of State see that the playoffs and proposals of the Council of State have created uncertainty and pessimism in industry and not optimism and predictability?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e655	Yes, I am at least recording that some representatives in other parties are involved in spreading uncertainty when making false claims, e.g. how much is to be cut in the agricultural agreement coming into force. A hanger around himself with billions of dollars, which is at least unknown to me. What I'm concerned about is creating predictability. It's to make sure that professional farmers, who live on this full-time, get better in the future. The food industry depends on it. If there are no farmers raising sheep, cattle and other animals from which the food industry gets products, whether it's meat, milk or other things, we don't have any food industry in Norway. So this is a chain that everyone depends on – that we have a living and robust and profitable agriculture across the country – and I think that's the whole premise. In terms of price control and these things, it is amazing that in 2014, we have a sector that is as well regulated as agriculture. I think it's high time to have a modern policy there too, so that farmers can keep their values, if they want to sell.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e662	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e665	Modernisation that supports increased food production across the country will be of the best. Grep that supports a robust soil protection will be good. Reforms that make more people want to bet on agriculture, I would like to applaud. There is a high level of agricultural output, and we must continue to do so. But then we simply need more innovative solutions. We need more research and development, and I think we need to strengthen the interaction between the practical solutions that the farmer or others who run the farm have and the knowledge environments. That is why I wonder what steps the Council of State will take to facilitate more innovation, to get more involved in agriculture and also to increase food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e674	Yes, I fully agree that research efforts are becoming incredibly important, and I am going to have a review of the funds going to agricultural research today – that is over 600 million. kr – to ensure that they are used in a way that benefits agriculture. In addition, we need to make sure that we enable technology to be put into use so that it can be produced more efficiently. I was in the midst of a Bioforsk report that shows that if you're doing the right thing, you're getting more returns and better environment because you're getting bigger crops out of the same area. Now there are, for example: mechanical fertilisation systems, where there is a machine that assesses when to fertilise and how much to fertilise. These things we have to put into practice even more than today. We have an ambition to increase food production, and to increase food production, we depend on recruitment. Then it must be possible to live by being a full-time farmer and not like today, where you earn very badly in many respects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e681	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e684	Finally, according to the Council of State, Listhaug, agricultural policy needs to be put in order. Finally, we got there. Now it's going to end with the zig-tip. I'm counting on the pinning to end at all. It's going to be a hope for the future. We've got a government council that will go into the subject and know this, we're going to get professional farmers, and agriculture is the use of land. We need fertility, we need knowledge of plant culture and soil culture and hydrology and what is. Glittering! But what is the matter is that those who work full-time on the farm depend most on a system that is enshrined in the agreement – the agricultural agreement – production regulation and market regulation. My question is about market regulation. The terms in agriculture are defined. I expect the Council of State has brought it with me. Will the Council of State put anything else into market regulation than what has been done so far, such as the drying of milk and the freezing of meat?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e693	Yes, we're going to have a review of the market regulation system to see if it can be done better than it is today, and it's high time. There's also something that Tine and Nortura, who I was in the past, have asked, so I think that's a very good start. Then I register that not everyone in the Center Party is particularly impressed by the efforts that have been made over eight years in government. I have read articles and other articles with interest, where a debate is initiated internally on the results of my own policies. It is a fact that over 9 000 uses disappeared, it is a fact that 18 000 annual works disappeared from agriculture, and it is a fact that there are about 35 000 empty uses. I think it's a result that makes us not able to continue in the same way, and therefore we have to take action that will increase profitability and new times in agriculture. Then you have to make changes and not just continue the policies that have now been pursued for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e700	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e703	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Industry. The Minister of Industry is responsible for an area that is very dependent on small-scale food entrepreneurs across the country, namely the tourism industry. We see that tourists don't demand common, standard ill-romat when they travel in Norway. They want more locally produced food that says something about the place, and that says something about local tradition and culture. This is also a very important issue for the combined users, whom I hear the Minister of Agriculture is not at all concerned, but the combined user and the tourism industry are completely interdependent in order to deliver a modern and exciting travel product to the tourist industry that we want to increase. Then my question to the Minister of Industry: What will she do to ensure that local processing of Norwegian raw materials, which is not mentioned in the government platform, will be an important part of the travel life initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e713	I think the questioner describes the possibilities as amazing and many. Then it's very funny that you haven't done anything about this when you've been in government for eight years. We have announced a review of the use of the instrument, we have announced a review of the tourism industry. This is a natural part of the assessment we are about to make. These are, of course, amazing possibilities. For example, it must be possible to buy local production of cider and not have to travel far from farms on the pole to buy what you want. So there are many, many possibilities. This is what we're going to do, this is what we're going to do, and it's part of the travel policy we're going to be designing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e720	We're done with the oral questioning process and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e732	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to the ordinary Questionnaire are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen to the Minister of Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative of Helga Pedersen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister for Knowledge who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Knowledge, this question is moved and answered before question 14, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 9, from the representative of Mr Geir Inge Lien to the Minister for Justice and Security, has been transferred to the Minister for Health and Welfare who is directing him. The question is raised by the representative Jenny Klinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e756	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e763	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «Removal measurement with photoboxes saves lives. Automatic traffic control, ATK, is currently being used for 16 sections, 8 of these in tunnels. The road service has provided an analysis referring to accident reductions of up to 27 pst. in road tunnels. It is therefore alarming that the government in its government statement will not extend new sections. In Nordland we have a long tunnel on the E6, Korgfjell tunnel of 8.5 km, and a new tunnel that will soon be completed, the Tower Tunnel of 10.6 km. Both are well suited to ATK. Will the Council of States open up route ATKs in these?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e772	The range-ATK was introduced in Norway for the first time in 2009. It's now in use in 23 sections, not just 16. But as stated in the government statement, we want to evaluate the mechanism to see what effect it actually has before we start more measuring distances. So the answer to the short term question is no. Two evaluations have been carried out in the past, in 2010 and 2013 respectively. Both evaluations indicated that this could have a positive impact on the frequency of accidents, but also pointed out that the evaluations were made too short to be statistically significant. That is why I have asked the Directorate of Roads to start an effort to evaluate this in a comprehensive way, where one also gets enough time perspective to say with certainty whether this has an effect, or whether there are only random results that have made it appear that it has previously appeared as good. The results of this evaluation will be available in the autumn, and then we will continue to work on this issue based on the findings that one does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e781	I'm recording that the Minister will have another evaluation. I would also like to refer to VG 10 January, where the head of the police's ATK-centre, Kjell Arne Hestad, says under the heading «Most powerful»: ‘We are very pleased that the infringements have decreased compared to the number that has been checked. All documentation and research show that photoboxes are the single most effective measure in reducing the number of serious road accidents.» In addition, we also know that distance-ATK is said to have three times the power of normal ATK. I find it strange that you have to wait for a new evaluation before you can acknowledge what both research shows, what the police show, and what Safer Traffic shows. Does this mean that all new projects planned will be on hold? Does this also mean that the routes that are not operational until this evaluation has been carried out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e795	I don't think you should make this harder than it actually is, and it's not hard at all. We're saying we're going to evaluate the scheme before we start new sections, to see if it actually has that effect. We know that some in the police claim it, we know that the reports have indicated it, but those who have made the reports have also said that the measurement period has been too short for anything to actually be fixed. It's just to look at the evolution of traffic accidents in the year that went on: there's been an increase. In spite of the fact that one has implemented many road safety measures in the years that have passed, one is getting an increase. It's a little bit about variations that unfortunately happen. We're going to evaluate the plan. And then we're going to discuss the effect of this. It is important to ensure road safety, but there are more ways to do so than just by measuring speeds. It's also about middle parts, it's about repairing road sections, it's about getting crab fields in hills, so you avoid passing by trailers. We're working on the whole aspect of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e804	I think that's good and important. All good measures should be taken to reduce the loss of life. All you said is good -- getting people to wear seat belts, middles, better roads, and these things -- but it's strange that the Progress Party won't take on what the trade unions say, and can actually document; it's not just that they think or mean it, it's documented reductions up to 27 pst. in tunnels. And tunnels are the distances on which you at least don't want accidents. Yesterday we discussed in Stortinget fire in tunnels, and it is clear that speed is contributing to increasing the risk of fire in tunnels. So it's a little surprising that the Right Party government will not take over the evaluations that have been made and the measurements that can be documented. I'm wondering what's the background for that. Is it the case that privacy is put before measures that are known to reduce the loss of life in traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e811	The fact that the Workers' Party does not set the privacy very high does not come as a surprise when we look at the FRA Act and the discussion you had about it. The same was true of the DLD debate. For us, privacy is important, but road safety is also important. Therefore, this government increased the allocations for tunnel upgrades by nearly 600 million. kr. It was a double compared to the previous government proposed. That's why I have a very good conscience in this area. It is claimed that all reports indicate that distance measurement has a very good effect. The Road Directorate itself says they have indications, but the reports are far from what can be called scientific. That's why I ask to get a more thorough round on this, where we will get clearer answers already in the autumn saying how we proceed. That is why I do not think one should make this a debate for or against road safety in general. It's about what kind of instruments we're going to use. Then I'm going to use those that work best, and then you're going to know that they actually have a function, not just that we're buying false security.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e824	I have sent the following questions to the Minister for Culture: ‘The Committee that assessed the development of a more knowledge-based cultural policy highlighted that the media was one of the areas of research that should be strengthened. The State budget item 73 provided funds to establish a media research centre in 2013 and further operations in 2014. The funds for the centre were to be released and allocated during 2013. How has this been followed up by the new government and the Minister of Culture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e833	Stronger focus on knowledge and research is one of the government's fields of action. This also applies to the cultural and media field. Research can never replace political judgement, but research-based knowledge can provide the basis for good cultural policy decisions. In addition, research can challenge and nuance established cultural policy truths and, not least, clarify alternative cultural policy choices. The funds at Cape. 335, Post 73, Media Research and Retraining, was awarded in 2013 to the Norwegian Research Council. Together with an annual budget of 15 million. kr shall be used to establish and operate a new action-oriented research programme on the cultural and media sector for the five-year period 2014-2018. The new research programme will have a total budget of more than 78 million. kr. There are several reasons why we have chosen to pool our efforts in the cultural and media sectors in a joint research programme: firstly, I believe that a joint research programme will provide the best research on the major cross-cutting issues that today characterise both the cultural and media sectors. Furthermore, I also see the benefits of stimulating competition between the best research environments rather than linking the funds to a single environment. Finally, a joint programme will provide economies of scale with regard to call, assessment and reporting. So in total, we want to spend less money on administration by publishing one program rather than two centers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e842	Thanks for the answer. I have two follow-up questions. The first one goes more on the formal one. When we read the additional proposition from the new government, we do not see any changes made to the government's proposal under Post 73, where it says: ‘It was set at 3.4 million. krona to a new media research centre in 2013. The resources of the Centre will be provided and allocated during the autumn of 2013. In order to obtain good and relevant research, the Ministry considers that the subsidy should be increased and therefore proposes an increase of 8 million. crowns in 2014.’;» Is it so that the government has only overlooked what has been adopted in Stortingen here, or is there something that has crossed my house considering what has happened in the treatment of the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e856	As I see it, the budget framework for research is not reduced. It has increased in our draft budget by 2 million. Compared to what the Stoltenberg government had in its budget. The funds allocated to the media research centre were transferred directly to the new research programme — the funds that the Stoltenberg government had actually proposed to the media research centre. Of the 10 million. kr, which was set aside for cultural research, is 7 million. kr transferred to the same research programme, which I have explained, while SEK 1.5 million. SEK has been set aside for exploratory work to ensure more short-term knowledge needs, and another 1.5 million. kr is set aside as a knowledge centre for cultural industries. With the scheme that I've outlined, the knowledge center for cultural industries has got 5 million. kr in 2014. We are now in a situation where we are working on clarifying this mission for the Norwegian Research Council, and it will be published in a regular way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e866	Then is the next question: The committee that was set up to look at how to strengthen it based on knowledge recommended that a centre be set up just because there are so many changes in the media. We tend, perhaps in the desire to be as alien to competition between research environments, to get fragmented environments. Has the Council of State had dialogue with the selected research communities to see if this is right in the media, because there is little total effort within the sector responsibility of the Minister of Culture for media research?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e871	As I said, we are now working to clarify this mission to the Norwegian Research Council, and then the Research Council will establish a Programme Board. The Programme Management Board will play a central role in the planning of this Programme, including the preparation of the Programme Plan. The call is scheduled to be launched in autumn 2014 at the latest, and that call will of course be announced in good time, so that the applicant communities in question can prepare for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e880	‘Finnmark is in turmoil because of a lack of policy action related to universality, and many are very concerned about the workplace and its community. The Labour Party has previously challenged the Council of State on what concrete steps it will take to ensure that universal service obligations are respected. The government's evasive responses refer to the industrial selection that the Stoltenberg government has dropped, which concludes late in 2014. Is the strategy of the Council of State to wait for the decommissioning of farms or will measures be put in place in the short term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e887	Safe, full-year and profitable jobs are an important prerequisite for increasing the value creation of the marine food industry. This is not least important for young people to see this industry as an exciting and forward-looking professional choice. The employment challenge in the fishing industry is well known and – I believe – one of the main reasons why the previous government appointed the Maritime Industry Committee, which will review the whole value chain and provide advice on measures to create profitable businesses, including at industry level. The problem is complex, and I don't see any simple answers. The follow-up of delivery obligations is one of many issues to be considered in this context. Norwegian fish face global competition. The need for conversion is becoming increasingly urgent. Unprofitable jobs are precarious jobs both for individual employees and for the municipalities concerned. In the autumn Nofima submitted a report, ordered by LO, on the processing of white fish in Norway and what is needed for a profitable processing. In the report, researchers point out, among other things: the lack of flexibility in the disposal of allowances and production represents a risk of locking enterprises into unprofitable strategies. The Nofima researchers also state that this situation should form the basis for a discussion on delivery obligations may be modified in order to contribute to increased flexibility and profitability. Like everyone else, I'm concerned about the poor profitability of the fishing industry. What matters, as I see it, is that the raw material supply is more organised on the basis of industrial assumptions. I have therefore started working on following up the government platform, which states that the delivery terms should be maintained, but that the obligation should be linked to different regions rather than to individual plants and municipalities. This work requires first some internal investigations. As part of the process, I will also facilitate dialogue with stakeholders. The Government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with its proposal for monitoring regional delivery obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e902	I note that farms are being laid down, while the minister is waiting for new arrangements and for the selection. I also note that the Minister for Fisheries is not so concerned that many communities are very disturbed. The fact that universal service is not being fulfilled and the resources that actually belong to the people are no longer going to benefit a single community, worries me. My question is that I assume that the Minister has met with Aker Seafoods and Norway Seafoods in such an important case, and I ask that the Stortinge get an insight into what the discussions have been about, and what kind of information the Minister has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e909	I have a great deal of understanding of those municipalities that feel insecure about unprofitable jobs in their communities, and what will happen to them in the future. I think, therefore, that we just have to consider that there will be changes, even if the delivery obligation should also remain in the future. But it's about there having to be profitable jobs in order for there to be a future in them. Then I register in public that there are processes in Norway Seafoods, where management and trustees have a discussion about what kind of strategy the company should choose further. That's what I hear and see, and then there's nothing in the department today about exemptions from delivery obligations or other things from the Norway Seafoods that would make us act. We take seriously that the industry is in a discussion about how to create profitability, and that is where the matter stands today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e916	From the answer I must interpret it so that the minister has not met with Aker Seafoods or Norway Seafoods. At least there was nothing that said one had it. Then I will turn the question and ask directly: will the Minister accept that only two places are delivered in North Norway, and if that is the case and that is the conclusion of Aker Seafoods, will the quotas remain on the quay?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e921	We are briefed on the processes in Aker Seafoods, but the department and government are no party to the discussion that is taking place in the company, no more than we are party to the discussion in other companies. But I have also noticed that there is a political discussion that is probably different from what Norway Seafoods is discussing. At the latest today, I record statements from the group leader, Thomas Farstad, where he rejects the fact that this is what Norway Seafoods is working on and is looking for – that you have to have two facilities to deliver to, one in Finnmark and one in Nordland, which has been promoted in the debate. He is concerned that they should provide safe, good jobs and that they should make the cod industry an even greater value on the coast. But I follow the situation closely, and we will do what we can to help make the framework conditions for this industry so good that there will be many, safe, full-year jobs on the coast in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e930	The question to Mr Tine Sundtoft, Minister for Climate and Environment, is: ‘The conservation of tropical forests is an effective tool for reducing global greenhouse gas emissions, while it is in the boreal forests and in the oldest forest that the largest carbon stocks are located, as shown in the NRK Out in nature on 14 January. Therefore, the conservation of these carbon stocks through increased protection of forests is essential in order to avoid hazardous climate change. At the same time, researchers recommend 10 pst. the forest must be protected if the natural diversity is to be saved. What is the strategy of the State Councils to increase forest protection?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e939	The forest is important in the climate context. The Norwegian forest takes up over 60 pst. of our total greenhouse gas emissions. The forest stores carbon from the atmosphere and contributes to the reduction of emissions by replacing fossil energy by bioenergy and by replacing three other, emission-intensive materials. At the same time, the forest has a large and complex natural diversity. Half of our endangered and nearly endangered species live in the forest. We also have a wide variety of forest types, including several we have an international responsibility to ensure. This means that we have a special responsibility to care for forest resources and operate the forest in a sustainable way. This government wants both to strengthen the voluntary protection of forests and to focus more on climate policy objectives in the management of Norwegian forests. A basic guiding principle is that the government will give priority to measures that have a positive climate effect, while having a positive or acceptable impact on natural diversity and other important environmental values. As far as possible, we will give priority to actions that have win-win effects for both climate and nature diversity. Norway already has a significant commitment to forest protection as a natural diversity measure. The budget for forest protection has increased from 231 million. SEK in 2013 to SEK 331 million. kr in 2014. Before Christmas we protected four important forest areas by voluntary protection. We are planning to protect a number of new forest areas in 2014 and the coming years, both in the protection of forests on state soil and in the voluntary protection of private forest. For the protection of forests as climate action, the climate agreement includes strengthening forest protection. We must then ensure that we protect the correct forest areas, and that protected forest provides a greater climate benefit than alternative uses for the same areas, for example. extraction of timber as a substitute for high-emission construction materials. The Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have therefore entrusted the Environment Directorate, the State Agriculture Administration and the Norwegian Institute of Forest and Landscapes with the task of assessing forest protection as climate action and under what conditions this should be done. Etates shall also assess whether this can be coordinated with the existing voluntary forest protection scheme, the objective of which is the conservation of natural diversity. This will provide us with very useful knowledge for the further follow-up of forest protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e954	It is very positive that the Council of State lists a number of measures which may at least have the effect of increasing forest protection. At the same time, we are still in a situation where Norway has only protected 2.7 pst. of our productive forest, while the clear professional recommendation of the researchers is that we need 10 pst. protection. It will of course have a direct climate gain at the same time, because it's very much talking about the oldest forest, with the largest carbon stocks. Our neighbouring countries Sweden and Finland have protected twice as much of their productive forests. The Council of State is behind the recommendation of the researchers to reach 10 pst. the protection of Norwegian productive forest, and does she have any indication of when this may happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e961	We have never spent as much money on voluntary forest protection as we do in 2014. It is too early to say anything about further progress in the field of forest protection, but the government will follow up the Sundvolden Declaration on strengthening voluntary protection efforts and will come back to this in subsequent budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e966	I then find that the most important driving force for achieving a forest protection that we actually need, namely a concrete and professionally based objective, is still lacking by the government. There is little doubt that this is why Norwegian forest protection has slowed down and is far from what we need, also in order to meet Norway’s commitment – for which the Council of State is primarily responsible – to stop the loss of biodiversity in Norway by 2020. So I would like to ask again: does the Council of State and the Government have any plans to set a professionally based concrete area measure for how much forest protection we are going to have in Norway, and when?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e973	As I said in the previous answer, voluntary forest protection is a field of concern for the government. We increased the appropriation by 100 million. kr in relation to last year and new areas are planned for protection this year. But we have to get back to this in the budget proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e978	Question 6 has been moved and is to be answered before question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e985	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘The reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures relating to lone minor asylum seekers and refugees has been reduced from 100 to 80 pst. expenditure in excess of equity. This will result in a budget savings of 240 million in 2014. krones. The cut also applies to reimbursement requirements from previous years treated in 2014. Many municipalities lose with this large assumed income for already completed purchases of services. Does the Council of State consider this to be appropriate, or will measures be taken to assist the municipalities concerned?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e994	Reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures relating to lone minor asylum seekers and refugees is a system that provides reimbursement for the expenditure of municipalities for child protection measures for single minor asylum seekers. The forecasts show that around 1,800 children out of a total of 2,500 single minors will be covered by the reimbursement scheme in 2014 – a share of 72 pst. This is a big increase from 2011, when the number was 40 pst. The number of municipalities setting up childcare accommodation has doubled from 2008 to 2012, and one estimates that the vast majority of lone minor asylum seekers currently residing in municipalities are receiving a child protection measure. Until 2013, the State refunded 100 pst. expenditure incurred by municipalities on such child protection measures. The Government of Stoltenberg II proposed in its budget for 2014 to reduce the reimbursement from 100 p.m. to 90 pst. This proposal represented an estimated savings of 120 million. kr. We agreed with the Stoltenberg government that the development towards a child protection measure for all single minor asylum seekers might not be the right way to go, and we therefore proposed to reduce the reimbursement to 80 pst., equivalent to another 120 million. kr. However, the government agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left to strengthen the special grant by the settlement of single minor refugees of 120 million. kr. In other words, we have redeployed funds between two schemes that are both aimed at lone minor refugees. We have increased the ordinary grant for the residence of lone minor asylum seekers. Net savings of 120 million. kr in 2014 is related to the continuation of the proposal from Stoltenberg II. The difference between the reimbursement scheme and the special grant is that the special grant is triggered for each lone minor refugee resident by the municipality. The reimbursement scheme may only be used if the municipality takes a decision on child protection measures. I believe that the system of special grants is more appropriate, because it includes all single minors who are resident, and not just the children who receive an offer from the Child Welfare Service. I want children to have that follow-up each one needs. But not all children need a child protection measure. In order to use resources more effectively on the necessary measures for single minor refugees, we are making this change in the reimbursement scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1007	Some municipalities have been very competent to receive lone minors. They have been very competent to accept and have good measures for those who really need follow-up. As an example, I can mention the municipality of Salangen, which has built up a very good child protection service for lone minors, who have accepted a much larger proportion than the municipality size should have expected, and who have been very successful in the offers they have had. Many of them have come into higher education, many of them have come into work. That is what our goal is – that they should be integrated into society and get into work or education. The municipality is now penalised with an extra 5 million. kr, because they have been more competent than the other municipalities, and they are now forced to make a worse offer in the future. Does the Council of State think it right that the municipalities should be punished for having built up a good offer and succeeded very well in the area of integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1016	I would like to point out that all the municipalities received an enquiry that they could apply for reimbursement for the expenses they had incurred by 1 December 2013. There were significantly higher payments than envisaged. The exact size of these is not yet known, but I will come back to that when the government accounts are final. So it's important for me to say that single minor refugees have a good offer. Many municipalities have made good efforts to integrate these young people and children. I want the municipalities to continue doing that. At the same time, we must stress that not all children need an offer within the scope of child protection. Many children are able to live outside child protection. By making this scheme so that you can also get the money from the integration grant, the government believes that it is as good an offer as they have today. I record that the government of Stoltenberg also saw that the development that had been in recent years, by the fact that all children were taken into custody, was not the right way to go, and that they had also increased the excess to 10 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1025	I assume that the Council of State shares my concern that these children will stay even longer in reception, and that rapid settlement is a common goal we have. INDI has stated that the introduction of this reimbursement scheme helped to make it easier to settle single minors. My question is then: Will the Council consider reversing the reductions in the reimbursement scheme for child protection measures and launching other measures if it now turns out that it will be much more difficult to settle for single minors and that they will be much longer in reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1037	I can assure the representative that I am as concerned as her for all the 5,400 who are now in reception waiting for a municipality to live in. Over 900 of them are children who have been sitting for a long time. What this government has done is send letters to all municipalities, even the smallest municipalities, that they must help us to settle the refugees who have been accommodated. It is gratifying to see that from November to December there has been an increase in the reception of minor refugees by municipalities. Minor asylum seekers shall not be in reception for more than three months. Part of it is being observed. I am concerned that the municipalities will be able to cover more of their expenses. We have done that by increasing the integration grant. Having the same rate to receive a child as receiving an adult is an important step towards simplification towards the integration grant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1050	‘It is available per year. not today national statistics highlighting the number of patients using free hospital choice. Health businesses do not have an overview of this either. Patients can be treated in different hospitals within one regional health enterprise, without knowing whether it is the patient’s own choice or a consequence of a functional distribution between hospitals. What will the Council of State do to better facilitate the effective free choice of hospitals, and provide the Storting with a better basis for assessing the quality of the scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1058	The right to free hospital choice is an important patient’s right provided by the Bondevik I Government under a budgetary agreement with, among others. Right. This has been an important right that many patients have exercised. The scheme was extended to include private hospitals under the second government of Bondevik, and later the scheme was extended to include drugs and mental health. Patients may choose the place of treatment but not the level of treatment. The functional distribution of health enterprises can thus affect the institutions within the healthcare undertaking from which the patient can choose. It's true that we don't have a national statistics that illustrate how many patients there are using free hospital choices. A SINTEF study shows that the scheme was used in 2003 in 47 000 hospital contacts, i.e. about 1.6 pst. by all planned hospital contacts. In 2011, the National Audit Office carried out a sample survey in the context of a review of the free hospital choice scheme. The study revealed that approximately 15 pst. of the sampling spaces used free hospital choice. The treatment types chosen for the study indicate that the proportion of users has become slightly higher than if the types of treatment were randomly chosen. The national audit carried out a broad review of the free hospital choice scheme, which was discussed in the Stortinget in 2012. Hospitals and permanent staff are obliged to inform patients about the scheme. The use of the Free Hospital Choice Information Service has increased in recent years. In 2013, the content of the web pages was updated and expanded. The number of applications and studies on the sides has increased and waiting times have become more precise. Volume numbers are published for approx. 100 studies. This government aims to carry out more quality measurements. One objective is that this should provide patients with an even better opportunity to choose hospitals not only on the basis of waiting time but also on the basis of quality. Free hospital choice is an important patient right that has the potential to use even more. The main measure to increase the use of the scheme is to provide the patient with good information about the scheme and what they can choose. The Information Service on Free Hospital Choice has taken important steps to improve this in 2013 and the scheme is evolving steadily.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1071	I thank you for your answer. As for the mapping that the Riksrevision carried out in 2011, I want to go a little bit closer to it, because it showed – as you say – that approx. 15 pst. of patients using the free choice of hospitals. You might say it's a good start, but the potential is considerably greater. What concerns is that the National Audit Office conducts such a study on behalf of patients, that health authorities seem to be lacking in continuous information on the free hospital choice system, and that there are significant shortcomings in the statistical guidance also on the part of the health services, not only from hospitals. So I have a follow-up question: is the Council satisfied that it is the Riksrevision and not the health authorities that take the user-driven choices most seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1082	I probably do not fully agree with the description that it is the Riksrevisionen and not the healthcare service that takes this right most seriously. I believe that the most important thing for patients to use this scheme, and this is a patient's right, is that the scheme is best known, that the decision-makers follow up the obligation they have to inform about the scheme, and not least that the free hospital choice website.no is as up-to-date as possible on waiting time information, but is also gradually supplemented with more information on quality, which is relevant to patients. So we know from the experience of healthcare that patients in many cases are aware of this right. For example, in Health Nord, when they did not have da Vinci robot for prostate surgery, the patient flow from Health Nord to other health care companies increased. So this is something both patients and fast doctors are conscious of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1089	I thank you for that answer. The organisation of free hospital choice is a topic, because as it is today, they are subject to the Health Directorate and have really very few tools to contribute to increased information. Also, picking up waiting times turned out to be quite demanding, and in many cases patients claim that there are wrong waiting times out there. Left wants to make free hospital choice a separate healthcare company, both to strengthen patients’ position and choice and to help make better use of healthcare capacity. I want to ask the Council of State a question about the organisation of free hospital choice. Does he have any thoughts about improvements related to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1100	What the government is doing is to further strengthen patient rights by establishing the ‘free treatment’ system, which is also part of the follow-up agreement and the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the Christian People’s Party and the Left. In this way, the patient’s ability to choose treatment will be extended – in addition to the restrictions currently in ‘free hospital choice’, and in addition to the restrictions currently associated with the time-limits to be able to choose other than those within the scope of the agreements that one has and those that have agreements under the ‘free hospital choice’ scheme. As of 1 January, X-ray services are also part of the scheme, and a worker is also part of the scheme with a view to establishing rehabilitation services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1109	This question, from Mr Geir Inge Lien to the Minister of Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare who will direct him. The question is raised by the representative Jenny Klinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1114	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Crossing of girls is illegal, while ritual circumcision of boys is legal, even if it happens outside the health system. Does the Council of State believe that girls and boys should receive the same legal protection and go in order to prohibit the circumcision of small goods, and if the government is working on a proposal to regulate practice, will the Council of State contact the Minister of Health and Care to ensure that the legal certainty of boys in the event of injury or death resulting from ritual circumcision is similar to that of girls in law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1123	The representative's questions are addressed to the Minister of Justice and Preparedness, but will be answered by me. Female genital mutilation is prohibited in Norway. Ritual circumcision of boys is not specifically regulated and is therefore permitted unless the intervention is contrary to criminal law. About 2,000 Muslim and Jewish boys are circumcised each year. The representative goes on his question far in assimilating the ritual circumcision of boys with sexual mutilation of girls. I think it's very unfortunate. These are two interventions which should not be equated. Female genital mutilation has no religious justification and represents a serious and physically destructive assault on girls. The attack may lead to significant complications such as infections, sterility and birth complications. The World Health Organisation refers to the intervention as a violation of human rights, and national and international efforts are being made against this tradition. Crossing boys has been practiced religiously for thousands of years, and is a tradition with deep religious motives for the Jewish and Muslim population in large parts of the world. It is also practised outside a religious context — e.g. About half of the boys in the United States are circumcised, without necessarily related to a religion. It is not natural to believe that a ban on ritual circumcision in Norway will cause Muslim and Jewish parents to cease to circumcise their boys. There is also no ban on the ritual circumcision of boys in any other country, as far as I am aware. In recent years, hospitals have stopped offering the intervention, and the situation today is that 2,000 boys are circumcised annually without knowing how or where this is done. It is therefore necessary to change the current situation. It is in everyone's interest that ritual circumcision is carried out in such a way that the boys are not exposed to pain and risk of injury. It is not desirable to prohibit the interception of boys, but legal regulation may facilitate the proper conduct of the intervention. Regulation may provide clarity of liability, provide rules of consent and information, and ensure adequate pain relief and follow-up after the intervention. It will also be easier to sanction if the interception occurs in contravention of regulation. I therefore aim to promote a bill for the Storting before Easter, where I will propose a regulation of the ritual circumcision of boys.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1144	I thank you for the answer, even if I think it's not good enough. It's obvious that there's generally not as much consequences in the cropping of boys as it's in the cropping of girls. The latter is a horrendous practice, which in most cases causes serious damage, regardless. But one should at the same time not minimize injuries to boys. When a good is first seriously damaged or killed by an unnecessary medical intervention, the life of the good is as much worth as the life of a girl. The Nordic Children's Ombuds have the task of taking care of children's dishes, and they've pointed out the sides when cutting bad guys, and they're in favour of a ban. Does the Minister of Health think that the children's environment does not care for the best of children when they are in favour of a ban?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1157	I am still responding to the fact that the representative consistently refers to female genital mutilation as a cross-section, creating the impression that this is about two equivalent relationships. It doesn't. Gender mutilation of girls is explicitly prohibited in Norway and has quite different consequences for those exposed to it than for the cross-section of boys. There is an international consensus on combating female genital mutilation, but as far as I know, no country has a ban on male mutilation. I believe that the representative should be careful to try to create the picture that she is now doing, by the way in which it is produced. I believe it is important to ensure that the boys who are circumcised are properly and properly done, and therefore aim to promote a bill before Easter that regulates that relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1166	The Minister of Health would like to take part in the debate in other European countries, and also to find that organisations consisting of men who have been circumcised are in favour of banning the practice. At an asylum reception in Sunndal in 2008, there was a 67-year-old doctor who was accused of cutting the foreskin of two minor boys with scissors, with subsequent injuries. After investigation and prosecution, the man was acquitted in North-Møre District Court. The law indicated that parents had taken the initiative and agreed to the intervention, and that the circumcision of boys is allowed. And a two-week old gut died in Oslo in 2012. Furthermore, will such cases not result in either consequences or punishment — nor after the government regulates the practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1175	Ritual circumcision of boys is, as I said, not prohibited in Norway, and as far as I know, neither in any other country. In specific cases, however, the general provisions of the Criminal Code may affect the cross-referencing of boys. The level of penalties that may be applicable in this case will include: depending on whether there is valid consent from the parents and whether the intervention has caused injury, significant injury or death to the boy. The 2011 consultation note proposed a criminal provision for infringements of the law. A penalty framework similar to the one currently being proposed for infringements of the Health Care Act, i.e. fines or prisons, was proposed for up to three months. This proposal has now been consulted. We are working to conclude and promote a proposition on this issue for Stortinget. This issue will then be regulated, and the issue of criminal law will then be a topic addressed in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1186	‘A crucial obstacle to the proper implementation of the Mongstad project has been the fact that the actors have had broad objectives. This also reflects the big picture in Norwegian energy policy. Green certificates will increase Norwegian energy production by 13.2 TWh by 2020, but it is extremely unclear what we are going to use the power for. As a result, we are destroying more and more Norwegian nature without knowing whether the loss results in climate change. What will the government use the increased production of renewable energy for?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1193	One of the most important jobs of the Minister of Oil and Energy is to contribute to a secure energy supply that can now and in the future provide the basis for increased well-being and value creation for many decades to come. Norway has ample access to renewable energy resources. This government has determined that we want to increase renewable energy production, power generation, in Norway. In this way, the government wants to facilitate continued industrial development, exports of aluminium and silicon and other industrial products from the power-processing industry, but also for increased power exchanges with other countries, countries that are currently receiving energy from coal firing. We also want to replace parts of the fossil energy consumption in Norway with renewable electricity. Norwegian power consumption can now be at the heart of a good, positive development. We see in parts of the industry signs that power consumption is going to increase. Elkem Solar has already started up again the silicon production in the South and will eventually come into full production. I assume that's a happy news not only for the oil and energy minister, but also for the Greens, the Greens, who are concerned about solar energy. We also expect the petroleum industry to demand more force in the coming years, both in projects already adopted and in new projects. So we also know that population growth will give us an underlying growth in the power demand of the years to come. Good access to renewable energy resources makes it easy to forget how vulnerable the Norwegian power system is to variations in temperatures and climate. Not many years ago, I would like to remind you that fear of lack of power development and a large power shortage dominated the public debate. Last winter 2010–2011, Norway had a power situation that Statnett considered to be strenuous — and to some extent very strenuous in parts of the country. During 2010 there was little congestion in the magazines, and it called being that winter together with increased activity in the industry gave a record high consumption. The government prioritises security of energy supply in all parts of the country. This is one of the reasons why we want to expand more renewable energy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1213	The Greens support the development of renewable energy to replace fossil energy. However, in a press release of 14 January, the National Audit Office has also pointed out that: ‘Norwegian authorities have not clarified the amount of new renewable energy to be provided and it appears unclear how to balance energy objectives with other sectoral objectives’. The consequences of this are a danger that support for the development of renewable energy is confused because people do not see the specific scope of this renewable energy development, which also costs a lot of nature and, in part, culture. So the question remains: what does the Council of State say about the Riksrevision's criticism, and can you make more specific what you want to do to solve this problem, which is, therefore, a lack of concrete objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1223	The Right Party government has been in power over 100 days, so we can hardly take responsibility for the big lines of the work that has been done. We and Sweden have a common ambition to increase renewable energy production in Norway and Sweden by 26.4 TWh. It is a fairly clear and clear target by 2020. Then we have a goal in Norway to reduce the consumption of power by 6 1⁄4 TWh. With regard to the considerations that I believe it is quite timely that the representative Rasmus Hansson requests, it will be a central part of the job with the energy message that the government will provide during 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1228	Then I appreciate that I got a first answer to my last question. One of the positive things that the government has taken the initiative and committed itself to in its government statement is to present an energy message that will answer, hopefully, some of these questions. So you can confirm that this message will be submitted early in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1233	I guess that's where Hansson's representative was a little creative. I tried to be quite clear that the government has an ambition and a desire to provide that message during 2015. Our predecessors sat for eight years without being able to present it. I appreciate that the opposition in Stortinget is impatient. I could have sent a message in a short time, but I want to use the necessary time to get the necessary anchoring outside among those who are working on this, so that we can get a message that says. There are long lead times in the Norwegian energy industry. It requires that we, as authorities with the Storting, do our job in a way that enables us to provide the energy industry with the predictability that that industry must have, with the long lead times and the long production times that are in those plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1238	The President will draw the attention of Mr Rasmus Hansson to the fact that all speeches should be addressed to the President. That's not what "you" will do, but what the "state council" will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1241	This shall be noted by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1251	My question goes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The wind power industry in Norway is concerned that a large part of the investments in the electricity licence market are coming to Sweden. Any adjustment to the Norwegian framework conditions at the control station in 2015 may lead to long-term uncertainty in the Norwegian wind power industry and to a lack of investment decisions. What will the Council of State do to ensure that electricity certificates trigger investment in wind power in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1260	As the questioner is asking, the certification system is a joint Norwegian-Swedish cooperation, the framework of which is regulated in a treaty between the countries and in a separate law on electricity certificates. The overall renewable electricity production target in the common electricity certificate market is 26,4 TWh, normal annual production in 2020. Through the control station to be carried out during the next year, the Norwegian and Swedish authorities will jointly, among others. address the need to amend the legislation on electricity certificates in order to achieve that objective. I am very concerned that the power development framework is as clear as possible so that investors can make decisions on a safe basis. There are many factors that help to determine where investment will come from. Already until week, the NVE and the Swedish Energy Authority will hand over the basic material for the control station to their respective ministers. The material will be sent to the hearing immediately. Overall, this will form the basis for the discussions we will have with the Swedish authorities on the necessary changes to the certification system. The size will then be dealt with as quickly as possible. This process will help investors to obtain as safe a basis as possible for their decisions on the development of all the facilities that already have a concession or those that will receive it in the coming years. As a concession authority, I will continue to provide for effective concession and network deployment, so that we can get the best projects in time, by 31 December 2020. However, I would like to point out that it is up to investors to decide what kind of facilities are being built here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1267	I thank you for your answer. I think these are good elements in it. But I understand that in 2015, the control station is primarily a joint Norwegian control station to see how one is located in order to achieve the target of a production of 26.4 TWh. With regard to the issue that has now emerged, the distribution of bias between Norway and Sweden is subject to tax regimes, where it has been found that Sweden has significantly more favourable tax arrangements than Norway, among others. through municipal ownership and the possibility of depreciating the energy tax. This is a national issue, which can be resolved independently from the control station in 2015. In this context, my question is: What will the Council of State, which has overall responsibility for wind power development in Norway, do to trigger investment in wind power in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1274	I note that when the electrical certification system was dealt with in Stortinget, there was a broad political consensus on a number of things. One is the fact that tax policy should be exempted from the agreement – that was the broad political consensus on it. The second was that the system should be technology neutral as such. And this isn't just about wind, it's about hydropower. In order to expand both hydropower and wind power and other things, there are some things you need. You need to have a concession, you need to have the ability to export the power produced to a market, i.e. network access. And you need to have profitability. There is no reason to believe that there are not very many facilities out there in Norway which, under current framework conditions, would be economically profitable to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1281	I thank you again for the answer. I record that the wind power industry with the wind power unit Norwea in the head shares the concern that I have. I also know that the wind power operators, who are now trained at Dalane High School, are concerned that there will be no investment in Norway. In another field in the energy industry, in the oil industry, there is a tradition of making adjustments to the tax system when it is in contrast. I can mention the reimbursement scheme for exploration costs, which was introduced in its time. History is full of that type of grip. So my question again, although I know that it is the Minister of Finance who is responsible for taxes and taxes, will be: When one sees that Swedish tax systems are so favourable that a large proportion of the investments come in Sweden, is it not from both an energy policy and an industrial policy perspective that there is a need to make changes to the Norwegian system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1292	I want to be clear that both parties in the government – both the Right Party and the Advance Party – have supported the introduction of the electricity certification system. It's a system that, at my discretion, works very well. It benefits Norwegian private consumers, it benefits Norwegian industry, and it benefits Norwegian power producers. So it's quite right, as Pollestad says, that in the case of fiscal policy, which he's obviously out there having me to talk about, there's a field attached to another state council, Finance Minister Siv Jensen. But as I said, I think there are already many projects under today's regime that should be possible to expand. We also need to extend the export capacity to Europe. It will also strengthen the profitability of many projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1303	‘The size set the conditions when the PUDs of Gina Krog and Edvard Grieg were given at the Utsira Height in the North Sea, that the installations should be prepared for shore-side electricity, and that operators should take their proportionate share of the costs. In retrospect, the media mention that the operators in the fields are countering electrification, inter alia. by choosing solutions that favour and impede such conversion. Does the Council of State see that oil companies would appear to be able to push the State to drop environmental requirements if full electrification is not required?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1310	The force from land is assessed and investigated by all new expansions and major conversions on the Norwegian base. The Troll, Valhall, Worm Lange, Snow White and Gjøa fields are being operated by force from land today. In addition, the Goliath and Martin Linge fields will be supplied with power from land when these fields are put into production. About 40 pst. Norwegian gas production is linked to fields powered by power from land. A country-by-country solution requires at the same time ensuring the deployment of sufficient new forces or providing sufficient new networks so that regional imbalances do not occur at the time of deployment. Consideration must also be given to the cost of measures and the natural diversity of the mainland. Forces from land to the height of Utsira have been investigated by all rights holders in the Sverdrup find and the three fields Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog since 2011. The costs associated with this work have been shared between the rightholders in line with the conditions set out in the approval of the development plans for Grieg, Aasen and Krog. The Ministry has followed up the ongoing investigations and has aimed to supply the Utsira Height with power from land. The government will, among other things, in the light of the ongoing analyses by rightholders, decide whether such a solution should be established during the examination of the individual developments. This race is in line with what the previous government proposed in the Climate Communication and to which the Storting joined in its treatment. The petroleum sector is subject to strict instrument use. The main means of limiting CO2 emissions from the cap is the high emission cost to companies through the European ETS and the CO2 tax, totaling approximately 450 kr per tonne of CO2. This gives companies strong self-interest in limiting emissions. The rights holders of Sverdrup shall decide on the choice of concepts early in 2014. Investment decision and submission of plans for deployment and operation are planned early in 2015. The Sverdrup extension will be submitted to Stortinget. The company's schedule is aimed at getting the expansion dealt with in Stortinget Spring 2015. Production start is estimated until the end of 2019. The operator and the other rightholders discuss, investigate, assess and quality assurance a number of aspects in advance of an important milestone that a design choice is. This process is currently under way among the rights holders of Sverdrup. With regard to the fields Grieg, Aasen and Krog, these will be prepared to take effect from land, followed by the rightholders of the ongoing deployments. In addition, there are clear conditions under which these fields should be linked to a coordinated solution to the height of Utzira if it is realised, unless the Ministry decides otherwise for specific reasons. The Stortinget has agreed to this in the treatment of the development plans for the three fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1340	I notice that the Council of State did not answer the question, and will give him a new opportunity to do so. I would also like to say that everyone understands that when Lundin and DNO, who are operators of Gina Krog and Edvard Grieg, choose to expand without electricity from land, as they have done, but with their own supply, they have no financial incentive to subsequently take on new costs of co-financing electricity from land. Therefore, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Council of State have a very important role to play in ensuring the follow-up to the Storting decision. The size was clear. It is essential that the Council of State and the Ministry are clear in their contact with the oil companies. The OD has professional responsibility with representatives from the OED in place and is continuously informed about progress ahead of the design elections. Can the Council of State assure Stortinget that there has always been a clear requirement from the Ministry that Johan Sverdrup should be fully electrified and that the whole Utsira region should be fully electrified?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1349	I am not familiar with the representative's suggestion that the companies in this case have not decided to find good solutions to the power supply throughout the field. Then there has also been a broad consensus in Stortinget about the use of instruments to realise electrification on a Norwegian base. The size has not been determined, as is claimed here, that the Utsira height is to be applied from land. The aim of the Ministry is to follow up the investigation and to provide force from land to the southern part of the Utzira Height. It has been followed up by the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and will take a final decision on the question of the use of power from land in the treatment of expansion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1356	This is a little bit weird. Elementary economic understanding suggests that if you've already built something out of Lundin's and DNO's companies, you're not interested in being involved in financing even more. That's why I say that the economic incentives to provide an electrification solution are not present for the southern part of Utsira, for Gina Krog and for Edvard Grieg. But that is why the role of the Minister of Public Affairs and the Minister of Oil and Energy is particularly important. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Since the Council of State distinguishes between the objectives of the Stortinge and the requirements of the Stortinge, can the Council of State assure the Stortinge that a clear goal has always been communicated by the Ministry that Johan Sverdrup will be fully electrified and that the whole of the Utsira region will be fully electrified?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1363	Now there's a lot of statements here -- I don't think I'm going to call it anything but statements. One thing that must be clear is that both Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog fields are prepared for electrification. Of course, it has also had a cost. I am not aware that the operators, the partners, in the license are working on any other solution for the power supply to the Sverdrup field than electrification from day one. It is such that these players on Norwegian pst pay 80 pst. tax, and the Stortinge has been crystal clear when this has been dealt with — even when this representative was the Council of State — that this should be taken into account. There are questions about the cost of action, and the cost of action that has been mentioned is 450 kroner per tonne of CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1381	‘In Official Journal No. 3 this year, a couple who want to start milk production in the North East Valley of Hedmark are described. They are currently producing in Buskerud but are not allowed to move their quota between the counties despite the fact that Busherud has several unused allowances. While there are often good arguments to prevent large-scale movements of quotas in order to maintain agriculture throughout the country, does the Council see the need to establish an exceptional family that can be used in such cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1388	Thank you, Mr Storberget, for putting an important theme on the agenda. The milk quota system was introduced in 1983 due to overproduction of milk. The quota system was intended to help reduce total milk production so that no further overproduction and price reductions were made. The main purpose of the milk quota system is therefore to adapt milk production to the demand for milk. The introduction of the quota system led to a halt in the structural development of milk production. Increased costs and technological developments could not be met by producers to expand production. Therefore, there was a rapid need to make it possible to grow. First, it was opened to produce more allowances through joint operations. Thereafter, in 1997 and 2003, the national and private turnover of allowances was opened up. In 2009, it was opened up for allowance rentals that allow single use to increase its output without having to buy and sell the allowance. Furthermore, the purpose of the milk quota system is to contribute to agriculture and milk production across the country. The total quota is therefore divided into production regions which set a geographical limit for the movement of milk quotas. Today, the regions are divided by counties. I believe that today's regions are too small, which illustrates this matter and the question from the representative of Storberget. The couple described in Bondebladet, Sissel Skarsbø Dokken and Bjørn Vidar Dokken applied for a derogation from the requirement that allowances can only be moved within the agricultural property and quota production region. The national agricultural management rejected the application as there is no possibility of granting a derogation from this provision of the legislation. I think it's sad that these producers experience it so that today's quota system prevents them from developing their production. However, I have no opportunity to address this specific matter, as it would be contrary to the law and the principle of non-discrimination. However, I can promise the representative of Storberget and Norwegian milk producers that I will go into the issue that this case raises. Ever since the quota system was introduced in 1983, there has been a need to make the scheme more flexible. I believe that the system is still too rigid, in addition to being far too extensive. In line with the government's political platform, I will therefore go through all aspects of the milk quota system. This is one of many things that I look forward to working on in connection with this year's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1405	I fully agree that the Minister of Agriculture will turn back to address specific issues. My question was not an invitation to go into the matter. That's why the question is formulated so that you can get a solution to at least future similar issues. I just have to stress that I believe there should be geographical constraints on how the allowances are allocated. I see it as an important tool to ensure that we have an agricultural policy all over the country. But at the same time, I believe that the legitimacy and trust in this type of legislation sometimes depend on the fact that we can establish a narrow exception, especially in cases where the quota is at risk of being passed on. So I want to repeat my question: does the Council of State think it would be relevant at least to consider looking at the establishment of such a narrow refuge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1414	I think it is relevant to make changes to the whole quota system for milk, and I think that is necessary. Today, for example, you can see. that there are 200 individual and joint ventures that have an allowance that is almost or completely capped in relation to what one is allowed to produce. It is clear that all traders are dependent on having the opportunity to develop their business and produce more in order to increase profitability in the sector. In the case of emergency shelters: the representative Storberget has a background as Minister of Justice, and I am sure he agrees with me that setting up emergency homes offers many challenges. Instead of starting with exceptional homes, I think it's much better to review the entire quota system and make changes that make it more flexible, and therefore get bigger quota areas than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1421	It is nice to end this day with a case that shows that it is possible to correct some of the legislation, and that there is also a political will to do so. In this way, I thank the Council of State for attending. When it comes to the issue of abstinence, some of us would think that it would be politically right in several laws that you actually have an opportunity to use common sense. In this case, I actually think it's about it. Once again, I just want to encourage you to look at the possibility of establishing such an exceptional home, perhaps faster, so that we get an implementation that shows that the government has an executive role in this area. My last question is: is there any possibility of doing this faster than the process set up by the Council of State? An overall review will necessarily take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1432	My ambition is to have changes in the quota area in the first six months of this year, so that we both get the quota ceiling raised and get something done with the areas it's divided into today. I think we should do it in a way that makes exceptional homes to be used as much as possible, precisely because it will always challenge, among other things. non-discrimination. In conclusion, we have met many times today, it has been very pleasant. I am pleased to receive a positive signal that the Workers' Party is open to make changes in this area, which I believe is high time we do, so that the farmers can decide more and the state less.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1439	We go back to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1446	This question, from the representative of Helga Pedersen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has been transferred to the Minister of Knowledge who is directing the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1449	‘The Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has praised the commitment to free core time in the Groruddalen, which is an important measure for children with a migrant background to learn Norwegian. This year, the Oslo City Council will launch several kindergartens in the same area with the consequence that the standard of living is removed, the pension conditions of employees are weakened, and experienced employees are likely to disappear. What is the view of the Council of State that competitive outsourcing will obviously have a negative impact on the quality of high minority kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1456	I then answer the question from the representative Pedersen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, because it is closely related to my area. There are today about as many municipalities as private kindergartens. Available studies show that parents are very satisfied with the offer of their children in private kindergartens. There is generally no basis for claiming that the quality of private kindergartens is lower than in municipal kindergartens. The municipalities of the country are free to organise their own nursery services. As long as the offer is within the framework of the applicable legislation, kindergartens may be owned by the municipality itself, or private. That’s how – as far as I know at least – it’s been quite a long time, and that’s how I think it still has to be. I have not registered any suggestions from e.g. The working party that it will end. Private kindergartens were important for fulfilling the promise of full childcare coverage for all, and they are important for the capacity and diversity of the private sector. Private kindergartens are not bound by the recruitment standards adopted by the municipalities, but nevertheless private kindergartens must have a staff sufficient to enable staff to carry out a satisfactory pedagogical activity, in line with the requirements of the Kindergarten Act. I haven't seen, and can't see, that there's any basis for the claim that the competition is generally negative for the quality of kindergartens, and I stress again that there are municipalities in the country that choose solutions for kindergartens locally that they think are the best for the inhabitants of the municipality. If the residents of the municipality do not agree, they have the opportunity to vote for someone else at the elections. I have not heard – again – any suggestions from the Workers' Party that the whole kindergarten sector should be publicised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1471	There is a broad consensus today that early work and kindergarten are incredibly important for children's learning later in life. It has also been established by the Minister of Knowledge. He said: ‘We have completed the large capacity lift. The major project is now the contents and quality of the nursery.’» There are very loud protests from the parents in the kindergartens that are now going to be put out to competition, among other things. with a torch demonstration in front of Oslo City Hall this afternoon. What is the Minister of Knowledge's message to the parents and children affected by the competitive outsourcing, which leads to the disappearance of experienced employees, the pedagogues seem to escape from the kindergartens affected and the removal of the standard of manning from kindergartens which are currently well-run public kindergartens and which are to be put out of competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1483	My message to those parents is two things. The first is that this government is betting on kindergarten. We're going to spend $170 million. On skills and quality measures, and now it is not just the money that is important, but the way we use them. We use them to invest in the employees. In fact, we have never spent more money on quality and competence in kindergarten than during this government. It's important. We have started the process of stepping up towards non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens. It is also important, because it may have something to do with getting equal grants and thus not having differences in the funding of children. So that's the one message. My second message is that local democracy is important. That means that what is happening in the Municipality of Oslo is the representatives of the Labour Party and the Right Municipal Government in Oslo, elected by the people of Oslo, who have to decide – not the Stortinget. And so, as long as the Workers' Party does not have a proposal that this should be national policy driven by big business or government, we agree on that in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1490	That is why the Labour Party in Oslo has also protested against the outsourcing of the seven kindergartens. What's interesting is that the right hand side of this case is talking to at least two tongues. The Minister of Knowledge talks about the importance of content and quality, but here there is an obvious conflict with what the Right and Advance Party Council in Oslo is doing. They have the obvious consequence of compromising the quality and safety of the kindergartens affected. Carl I. Hagen said in connection with this matter: ‘If the municipality of Oslo got an idea to start with grocery stores or shoe shops, everyone would laugh. Why use kindergartens when private people make it better and cheaper?’ Does the Minister of Knowledge think that there is a fundamental difference between running a shoe store and running a kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1504	That's what the Minister of Knowledge believes, because there's a big difference between kids and shoes. If you don't see it, you have bad things on kids and shoes. But the question back to the Labour Party and the representative Pedersen must be: It is perfectly right that the Labour Party's representatives in Oslo protest – because this is a matter for which the Municipality of Oslo is responsible – but what proposal has the Workers' Party made after eight years of government, which would indicate that this was national policy? And so, the Labour Party agrees that this is a municipal matter, why do you ask a minister of knowledge who intervenes? At best, it is inconsistent after eight years of government and implementing exactly the same policy, or that means that the Labour Party has now changed its policy and believes that the childcare sector should be publicised. In that case, you have to come out clearly and tell the voters about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1513	Let's move on to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1520	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In order for the pupil council to work well, it is essential that those in the pupil council also have sufficient knowledge and information to do a good job on behalf of their fellow students. The latest developed by teaching materials and teacher guidance in classroom and pupil work was developed for the Children’s Ombudsman of 1–4 students. 1999 class. Will the Council of State take the initiative to review the educational tools and guidance available to develop an up-to-date material for the pupils involved in pupil work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1529	I appreciate the question, because I'm concerned with pupil council work and student council democracy. It is the responsibility of the head of the school that students are included in the school environment work. The Board shall promote the common interests of pupils at school and work to create a good school environment. I fully agree with the representative, Asheim, that it is important that those who sit on the Board have sufficient knowledge and information to do a good job on behalf of the students. This question has given an opportunity to look at the situation for those who work for the pupil council, and fortunately – I have to say – it is not that there has not been any new guidance material in this area since 1999. In 2012, the Education Directorate, in cooperation with the Student Organisation, created a guidance resource that was then deployed on the Education Directorate’s websites. The guide material consists, inter alia, of: of a networked resource on student participation, a student counsellor’s manual, a student’s counsellor’s guide and for the start of pupil advice, and frequently asked questions about student participation. It's also made a guide for those who are involved in the school environment committees. It is also important, of course, that these guides and this information material become known. There we might have a job to do. It is important not only to focus on student work, but also to involve all students in Norwegian school in decisions relating to their own learning and their own everyday lives. Students shall participate actively in the evaluation of their own work, their own competences and their own professional and social development, and students shall also be given the opportunity to say something in a systematic and proper way about the education and school they attend, and that is a work with which the government intends to continue to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1540	I thank you for your answer. I believe that the Minister of Knowledge is interested in something important when he says that this is information that needs to be disseminated better, because these are requests that I have received from both students and student council representatives and teachers in the Norwegian school. I come today from a meeting with all the student councillors in Akershus. They also demand more information, especially for teachers at school. The challenge for them is that many teachers do not know what is expected of the Board of Students and what the Board of Students should actually do, and they perceive that it varies greatly from school to school how the Board of Students works. And if the students are to be included in school and do the student board work properly, the information must also benefit the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1547	Now I think it makes sense that there is a certain variation in how to organize the details of the student council. But where there can be no variation, in the students' fundamental right to participate and decide, evaluate and have a voice at school. This is a very good reminder to the government that it doesn't keep granting a pot of money, making material or assuming that something is done, if you don't get it distributed out. So I think this is a useful reminder that – first of all – it's good that it's materially available, but that it also has to go out, and I'm going to take a round to see if we can get better at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1558	‘In the municipality of Sandefjord, teachers are required to evaluate the students by indicating whether the student scores ‘under expected, satisfactory or above expected target achievement’. Parents and teachers feel that this does not promote learning and in practice is a form of characterisation contrary to law and order. Some teachers who refuse to use the system are threatened with dismissal. Does the Council of State believe that it is acceptable for the municipality to circumvent the ban on childhood characteristics by using such characteristic criteria?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1565	I have three points. I thank you for the question, and that was not the first point – I would do that before I got to the points. I have three points, and the first one is: Since this question – in a series of questions – was brought in, things have happened in Sandefjord, and it is worth reflecting on: Why does things happen in Sandefjord while there are questions inside the government? Well, precisely because this is a matter in the municipality of Sandefjord and not a matter in Stortinget, or in the government. As the Council of State, I have said very clearly that this is not the current policy to force through or implement by the state in all Norwegian municipalities, and that is something that all parties that are concerned with local self-government and local government should be aware of. That's one point. The second point is what is actually in the regulation of the Training Act, the so-called Assessment Regulation, concerning important principles for in-flight assessment. And it says -- I'll read it: «Every student from the first stage has the right to: – know what the objectives of the training are, both the objectives of the curricula and the learning objectives developed in each school – to know what the emphasis is on in the assessment – to assess his/her competence in the field, order and behaviour – to get informed about his/her professional competence and behaviour – to get information about what they need to master in order to become better in the subject – to assess his/her own skills, work and professional development – a conversation with his/her contact teacher on professional development at least once every six months – a dialogue with a teacher on his/her non-professional development – to get a mid-year assessment without a character describing the student’s competence in the subjects and providing guidance on how to improve their/their competence – to get a mid-term evaluation of their/their character in order and behaviour.» The reason why I say this is that it is important to be clear that there is quite a lot of a student has the right to go to school when it comes to feedback. However, this legislation does not lead to the achievement of the objective of competence or to the design of the individual school assessment system. It's a professional responsibility for school owners and schools, and it's solved differently from place to place. That's point two. Three, a premise on the question is that this should be prohibited in some way by circumventing the ban on childhood grades. To that it is, first of all, that this was introduced in the municipality of Sandefjord in 2012. Then there was another government, and I can't see that the previous government thought this was forbidden. The second is that the Council of State does not consider that something is prohibited or not; it is the county that deals with any complaints. Finally, I want to say that what has happened in Sandefjord now is that the municipality has told them to reconsider this system. I can reveal so much without interfering with local self-government, that I think it sounds wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1615	I thank you for your answer. I am also aware of this with registration and target management that will otherwise be reported, but here it is at a different level. I have here a copy of a semi-annual assessment for the third and fourth stages at 65 points, which the teacher here says goes beyond the time of the teachers in the class. The Prime Minister said in her New Year's speech that she wanted to facilitate the student's meeting with the dream teacher. Does the Minister think that this form facilitates this teacher to move on in his work and become a dream teacher?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1622	Again, I would like to remind you that we have local autonomy in Norway. We have local people elected – politicians that people can meet at the store, at the children's football training, at the Scout – who are responsible for these parts of the policy in the municipality. It's a principle that I know that the Center Party is normally occupied with. But I want to make a few general points, and the first is that it's always important to listen to the input from the teachers. The teachers are professionals, and it is important to listen to the input of the teachers. The second is that target management is an instrument that needs to be used with care. My impression is that it has – perhaps especially in the last eight years – developed a target management regime that combines the worst of two worlds, namely target management and a social democratic desire to regulate and govern in detail. In the government's view, there will be a rather poor target management of this, and that is why we have started simplification work in several sectors in terms of target management.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1629	Target management – this regime – was introduced in 2003, under the Bondevik II government, and then it has escalated. Of course, the centre party is occupied by local self-government, but there is even more to establish its own court of law against employees who do not follow their own legislation and discretion in the municipalities. I think it's important to listen to this teacher here, and here too the parents say something, and it might also be time that we, at national level, put in some standards, which I had hoped the minister would comment on something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1636	Firstly, I fundamentally disagree with the language used by the representative when he says that a local court is established. So here you have an administrative committee in the municipality, and as far as I remember, it's those who have dealt with this matter now, and who have also said that these teachers are going to keep the job. You've also been told to go through the system, and I have to say again that I think it's a wise approach. But that it should be called a kind of 'court', that the elected people and a local elected body should be seen as something other than that, I fundamentally disagree with that. I think we have some clear boundaries to deal with. We have a limit that says you shouldn't get grades in the dorm. That limit is not going to be moved with this government, it's going to pass, and you have to deal with that. If it is that the representative, or others, believes that this is a sneaking-up of characters, you have to do it properly – then you have to have a good and thorough procedure, and then you might have to complain to the county council, which is the right body to decide. If you want to be serious as a state council, you don't sit down and trap that kind of judge in a question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1652	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Knowledge: Sandefjord Municipality has now introduced new forms requiring teachers to create their own target management form for students. The teachers do not respond and accept this, now they risk being cancelled. Is it the case that the Council of State will accept that teachers who say from behind when municipal orders affect their teaching function?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1661	Here it seems like there's some thematic similarity in the different questions from the opposition, and that's okay. I say thank you for the question. Of course, I have seen the matter that has been in Sandefjord. I saw that the two teachers were given notice of termination, but I also saw the further development, as we were told via the media yesterday, that there will be no termination. I repeat that I think it's a very wise approach; I think the municipality is also wise to listen to the recordings that have come from parents and teachers, and look at this system again. That being said, it is not right for me, as the Council of State, to comment on municipal personnel matters, and I also have no decision-making authority in municipal employment. I have also not registered that the Senterpartiet, Arbeiderpartiet or SV wants the state to enter and have decision-making authority in municipal employment. This is and shall be a case between the employee and the employer within the applicable labour law rules and agreements. Then I've said something about the political aspects – national – of the matter, and then I repeat: it's not up to us to make this a national policy that we're going to impose on the municipalities. No, we are going to continue the opportunities provided by today's legislation, which facilitates a certain local understanding of how to implement the objectives of the curriculum, and those are the same rules that the previous government thought were reasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1672	I thank you for your answer. I am personally very pleased that the municipality of Sandefjord has turned the case around, because I do not think it is wise to have such a comprehensive management document as this is about, at such a low level. I think it's a very good idea, as the Council of State also says, to listen to what the teachers say, and the teachers have been very clear. Because I perceive such a regime of checks as it is set up here, almost as some kind of distrust of the teachers and their knowledge rather than building knowledge and motivation. What does the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1677	I almost have to repeat myself – with the danger of being boring – the representative does not now ask about my personal opinion; the representative asks about my opinion as a government council, as a representative of the government, and we do not have, official, authority or the ability to enter and govern in detail, how the schools should achieve this kind of goal of competence, and I do not think that is desirable either. That being said, I'd like to repeat what I've said several times, that I think you've come a good way in Sandefjord. I always think it's wise to listen to the teachers and listen to input from parents. That's one of the reasons why I spend a lot of time both in schools and with the teachers' organizations to get good input. I also think it is wise to have a target management system that is not too comprehensive, that is, that has some clear and clear overall objectives, but that is not too detailed. But this is a general point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1684	I like the general point of the minister, because I think it's important to get motivation, joy and knowledge into school. It is important for the student’s mastery to have the right amount of knowledge dosed. I think that's great. I also think that the teacher needs to have room for action in order to follow up the individual student, just to get the best out of each student. Then the teacher must have time to be a teacher. That's why my closing question is: doesn't the Minister of Knowledge think that together in the Storting, we should have a review of some of the bureaucracy and reporting regime that is in school, and that I know that many teachers seem to be a problem for just being able to deal with the individual student?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1693	I don't think we need a review. Now it's time to do something. In 2009, it was established that there are too many time thieves in school. Teachers report that there has been an increasing red tape. There has been too much that takes time away from what is most important to the teacher, namely time with the students and time to be a teacher. We have now launched a large survey round. We just have to figure out which parts of the reporting we're going to attack to make this easier. But it's not like we're getting rid of all the bureaucracy or all the reporting in school. I'm e.g. a strong support for national testing, so that we have an opportunity to check the level of knowledge in different schools. It can be an important tool for teachers. But this government is quite clear that we want fewer time thieves in school. We don't have to dwell on that anymore. That work was started several months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1708	‘Sandefjord municipality’s practice of forcing teachers to carry out extensive target management with semi-annual evaluations of all elephants has weighty responses. Teachers report spending up to 50 hours every six months on this evaluation. The government statement is about investing in teachers and that the government will ‘simplify and reduce the amount of unnecessary bureaucracy and reporting requirements’. Does the Council of State mean that the target management that takes place in Sandefjord and other municipalities is to invest in the teacher and reduce bureaucracy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1715	I want to thank you for the question. I repeat that I believe that the solution that has been reached in Sandefjord now seems to be wise. I'm a member of local self-government. I think that is an important principle. I also believe that target management must be used with care. The general growth that has been seen, not only in terms of overall target requirements, but also in extremely detailed and partly conflicting target management that has grown especially in the last eight years, I believe has been negative. The aim is to have clear and clear guidelines. Target management can be sensible in many areas, but it must be moderate target management. I repeat what was said in the answer to the previous question, namely that in the report of the Time Use Committee in 2009, teachers report that they spend too much time on tasks that are not directly related to education. So they think there's been more bureaucracy in school. Some of that is the responsibility of the State. Some of that is the responsibility of the municipalities. Some of it can have origins in school itself. This government is now monitoring and figuring out which time thieves we can take away, and it is a clear goal that teachers should have less bureaucracy to deal with, and that they should have more time for the students. I can't promise that there won't be any goals, any forms to fill or any control, but I can say that the work to bring down the number of time thieves is well under way, long before this questioning period too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1728	I would first like to thank you for your answer. There will be a discussion about the local self-government against which responsibility lies with the Storing and Government. I see in the settings for the big message Time for learning that right together with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – that time the opposition – type: ‘These members will stress that the main challenge in relation to time thieves at school – as these members see it – is not primarily at local level, but that the State has a primary responsibility in this context.’ As I see it, I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is now clear that the responsibility for getting less reporting and less bureaucracy lies with the Government and the Minister of Knowledge, as a superior responsibility. I would like to ask again: what is the Minister of Knowledge actually thinking about doing to follow up what is on the government platform to reduce bureaucracy in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1742	Thank you for the question. What we're actually doing now is we've set up a working group that's going to work fast. They shall submit a final report by December 2014. We also hope to get some results from there before identifying time thieves. We're also going to ask the community sector, the schools and the teachers for input into which time thieves can be removed. We're going to go through critical reporting routines that are there by the state, to see if we're asking for some things several times. The fact that this is possible, Minister of Health Bent Höie has shown himself fully, as he – in the same way and with the same attitude as this government – that we should have sound target management, but not unnecessary red tape – went through the target management of the health sector and found that the number of targets could be significantly reduced by getting clearer and better targets. One of the things you did was, among other things, that the state stopped asking for the same things several times. That's the ambition in this sector as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1753	One of the recordings from the Time Use Selection, which was the source of the Storing Message, was that they suggested that national authorities should clarify national requirements for monitoring and documentation, as well as that school owners should be detained from setting local requirements for documentation beyond the requirements of the Training Act. The background was precisely what this case in Sandefjord illustrates, namely that many municipalities impose their own monitoring and documentation requirements in addition to the national requirements, which means that teachers do not have enough time for the core tasks. Is this proposal from the Time Management Committee something that the Minister of Knowledge will assess in the work he is now announcing that the government will do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1760	That's absolutely it. At the same time, I would like to stress that I do not think we should make a national template for example. how to fulfil in detail all the rights that students have to receive feedback. There I think it makes sense that you have local variation and local opportunities in schools to do this in different ways. You can just imagine, some smaller schools might be more able to do this verbally, because it fits better in one municipality. While a major school in a larger municipality may need to write parts of this. Again: Of course, you have to listen to advice from teachers and parents, and then you have to find good and sensible ways to do this, and I think a lot of municipalities do that today. I have no plans to change the legislation, neither to force them to do so in one particular way or to reduce the local freedom of action that exists today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1771	‘Sandefjord Municipality has introduced rules requiring teachers to create their own target management form for students. Teachers have reacted to this and are now at risk of reprimand from the municipality. The main challenge in public activities is to develop a better management and management culture. Does the Council of State think that what is happening in Sandefjord is contributing to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1778	I would like to thank Mr Lundtegen for his question. I don't think I agree that the biggest challenge in the public sector is to develop a better management and management culture. The main challenge in the public sector is to provide good services to citizens: good health care, good schooling, care for the elderly and that kind of thing. That's the biggest challenge. I agree that good management and good management culture are important, but I have no prerequisites as a government council to go into and assess the management culture of the Sandefjord municipality based on media projections. The demands and expectations of school management have increased in recent years, both as a result of the ambition of the Knowledge promise to develop school as a learning organisation and the many expectations society has for school. Once again, I believe that we should have clear national efforts on knowledge and quality. We are now embarking on the greatest teacher's vow to provide continuing education, so that good teachers can become even better, but at the same time I think we should keep up the opportunity today that municipalities can solve these problems in a slightly different way. I just want to stress, since the representative Lundtigen takes up school management, that we are also using funds to strengthen school management. In the supplementary proposal to the State budget, that is to say, the new government proposal, we extended the principal training from 400 to 500 places. It is a direct investment in a better school management that this government has done, which hopefully will also provide better quality in schools around the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1789	I have read the timing committee's suspension on 15 December 2009, and I have read the comments from the committee to Notify. St. 19 for 2009–2010, which was issued on 17 February 2011, and what appears there, is that there is too little point of view. The Time Management Committee report states: ‘Good management appears to be the key prerequisite for good time use in school. This applies both to school management and to classroom management.» In this area, as in several areas, I think it's too little cant and power. What needs to be reassembled within the school in order to be well managed is the meeting between the student and the teacher. It's the meeting between the student and the teacher that's going to be the focus. That's the meeting that's going to get better. It is the meeting that will give young people a better chance of becoming people of benefit. Isn't such a prank, such a leadership, the point? That's what gives quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1799	It is difficult to disagree with the representative Lundtigen that both the pooling of power and the relationship between teacher and student and good management are incredibly important for quality in school. So the question is, what do you do with that? What this government has done is to set in motion a major training promise. After this little happened in the previous eight years, we put in a big promise of further education – over 300 million. kr extra – which will allow thousands more teachers to have the opportunity to fill in professionally. We're strengthening the principal's training. We're going to continue, not just with individual continuing education, but with measures to build teams at school, so that you have an opportunity to create the very good professional environments locally in each school, which we know quality depends on. I am also not afraid to say that the school owners – in many places – need to play a more active role. The municipality and county council are school owners, and it involves a greater responsibility than just discussing school structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1806	Further education is essential, but as the Education Association says in its 2013 election document: ‘We need good school leaders who can interpret the law and filter regulations in such a way as to benefit their own students and teachers.’ In my opinion, this is well said. The Council of State says he should go away from the details of the target management, it should be used with care. We're talking about primary school. There are many things that can be measured and made here, but the core is that the youth will be entitled to follow-up. How a person gets a follow-up will depend on the individual. I am surprised that the Council of State does not take the step fully and say that target management applied to children in high school is not suitable, as he said earlier that students and shoes were two different things – you had to have different systems. It's talking about using the senses and the senses of competence that teachers have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1818	17 pst. by the boys, based on a survey conducted some years ago, leaving primary school without being able to read and write properly. They're what you might call functional illiterates. One goal is that all students leaving the Norwegian primary school should be able to read and write properly. That's sensible target management. The fact that you have clear professional requirements for what the school is going to do is target management. Then I'm not in favour of going back to the system you had under some previous governments – something over ten years ago – where you also had detailed control over how the teachers and how the school should achieve these goals. I don't think that makes sense. But I think having clear and clear learning goals is important for the school, it's important for the politicians, and it's important for democracy precisely because if you're going to have good school owners, you also have to have insight and information about what's going on in school. But, of course, target management, like everything else, must be used with care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1829	‘Sandefjord Municipality has received a lot of attention for the way they measure the students. The municipality has established an assessment system in which students from 1st to 10th grade are divided into a three-part scale by skills. The assessment system is highly controversial among students, teachers and supervisors. Several teachers and supervisors of the boikotter system, and two teachers have received reprimands for the ‘order’ system. Many believe that the forms lead to unnecessary red tape and that it is debilitating to teachers and students. In this case, the Council of State has said that such an assessment system is not part of the government’s national policy. Will the Council of State intervene if it appears that several municipalities have/will introduce similar assessment systems in school?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1836	Thank you for the question. The representative is quite right that the assessment system established in the municipality of Sandefjord is not part of the government’s policy. I repeat: we have no plans either to force municipalities to assess the students in a certain way or to tighten up and tighten up today's legislation. But it is not because the Ministry of Knowledge has made a qualitative assessment of the system, but simply because it is not the government's policy, as it was not the former government's policy to control the educational activity of schools and school owners. Instead, the government wants to build up under the professional responsibility of the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1843	The government platform says that the government will monitor the learning outcomes throughout the school cycle and ensure full transparency about school performance. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: When and how will the government implement this? And can the Council of State promise that this does not mean more open rankings, more forms, more surveys and more level-sharing in Norwegian school in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1850	There were three questions. The first question is to have a systematic survey of students’ learning throughout the school cycle. We have national tests. The government has not planned to abolish them. We might want to evaluate their location, but we'll get back to that. To the second question: As the representative knows for sure, the results of the national tests are public today. Based on the Public Health Act, anyone can send an e-mail and get a full overview of the results of each school. Fortunately, it is in a liberal democracy that the state does not decide what to do with this information. I have said – and I would like to say again – that making national surveys is meaningless, but we cannot, therefore, prohibit the newspapers from making that kind of surveys, even today. We couldn't do that either in 2012, we couldn't do it in 2009 or in 2006. That's also why in all these years there have been a few media that have actually created this kind of mapping. I may come back to the question of level differentiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1859	I think I have to ask the question again. Can the Council of State promise that there will be no more open rankings, forms, surveys and level-sharing in Norwegian school in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1864	I don't understand the question. I answered the question. I can add two things. One is that what we're going to do from the fall of 2014, is change today's system, where you need to send an email to the Education Directorate to get all the information delivered, to a system where the information is going to be on the Internet, such as: Parents have the opportunity to go in and check. We're going to do it in a way that doesn't facilitate ranking. This solution will also make it impossible — on the data page — to rank schools. What we can't guarantee is that someone doesn't want to sit down, review, write down by hand all the results of all the schools in Norway and then make a ranking. The state can't do anything about it – fortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1869	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-05.ana.ud410e1882	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
