ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e117	The representative Rasmus Hansson, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative of Arild Grande will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e125	On behalf of Rigmor Aasrud, Sonja Mandt, Hege Haukeland Liadal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal on child protection – non-profit organisations and protected tenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e130	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e133	On behalf of Else-May Botten, Line Henriette Hemdal, Pål Farstad, Rasmus Hansson and myself, I will present a proposal for improved safety at sea. It is requested that the proposal be dealt with in accordance with the second paragraph of Paragraph 39(c) of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e140	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e169	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 50 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the Party and members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e178	The increase is to be considered today by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for the 2014-2015 period, and I am delighted to present the Committee’s position. The agricultural situation in 2014 relates to capped appropriations. 1150 for the calendar year 2015 and re-disposals within the adopted budget for 2014. Furthermore, the settlement includes target prices for the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 and some other provisions. The main political basis for the settlement is the government's political platform, the cooperation agreement and the handling of the coup d'état. 1150 and 4150 for the implementation of the agricultural agreement, etc. in the additionalproposal for the State budget 2014. In the review of the State budget for 2014, the Industry Committee also refers to the Notification. St. 9 for 2011–2012 and Innst. 234 S for 2011–2012, which was dealt with in Stortinget on 12 April 2012. The present SSC continues a number of joint comments from the Innst. 234 S for 2011-2012 to Innst. 8 S for 2013–2014 as broadly anchored leaders of agricultural policy in the coming years. The requirements of agriculture were submitted on 25 April 2014. The State’s offer was submitted on 6 May 2014 and on 13 May 2014 the plenary meeting of the negotiating committees found that there was a breach of the negotiations and that the government would go to Stortinget with a proposal for an agricultural settlement based on the State’s offer. The agricultural demand had a frame of 1.5 billion. kr. The requirement was financed by 365 million. kr in increased target prices, an increase in capped appropriations. 1150 at 965 million. DKK in the amount available for the contract and SEK 110 million. kr in the increased value of the agricultural deduction. The State negotiating committee presented an offer with the same average income development as other groups, 3,5 pst., according to the SSB. With the forecasts for productivity growth and price developments in areas outside the agreement, the offer had a framework of 150 million. kr. Target price increases corresponding to 340 million were proposed. kr, reduction in capped appropriations. 1150 at 250 million. NOK 60 million. kr available on the contract. The offer would give unchanged value to the agricultural deduction. The main objective of agricultural policy shall be cost-effective and safe food production. The instrument shall be designed to contribute to increased production and work shall be carried out to maximise the degree of self-sufficiency of food for emergency reasons. We will make agriculture less dependent on state transfers, reduce cost levels and provide industry with new and better income opportunities. Support for the budget shall be made more dependent on production and less land. We will strengthen agriculture through the simplification of laws, regulations and support schemes and remove restrictions that prevent the efficient use of capacity. We want the farmer's right to rule over his own property to be strengthened. The local resource base and the farmers’ own competence and interest should determine the adaptations to a greater extent than public constraints and complex grant schemes. In the dimensioning of economic instruments, we believe it is right to give priority to use that has a resource base for full-time use and a job for professional practitioners. Greater room for action on adaptations and better income opportunities is important for recruiting young people to the industry. Simplification of the structural profile of grants helps both to facilitate good income opportunities for full-time users and to simplify the instruments and to reduce the possibilities for regulatory adjustments. We want to strengthen agriculture by simplifying laws, regulations and support schemes and reviewing concessions, quota schemes and the differentiation of agricultural subsidy rates. Simplification is also highlighted in the Notice. St. 9. For the sake of predictability, changes must be made over time. Good income opportunities are the main means of ensuring adequate recruitment and achieving the objectives of agricultural policy over time. The development of income has always played a crucial role in the framework of agricultural operations. For several decades, the starting point for income policy has been to ensure income development and social conditions for farmers in line with other groups. It is also the basis for the agricultural settlement of the year. The gross income of agriculture consists of revenues from the market and transfers from the country. The structure of the framework is based on estimates for the development of agricultural production, cost development and labour consumption and estimates of wage growth for other groups. In the case of prognosis for growth in production, the agricultural settlement proposal bases the same estimates as the agricultural negotiating committee made in its claim. The agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left wants to facilitate environmentally friendly, sustainable and forward-looking agriculture, with both large and small uses across the country. The aim is to stimulate Norwegian agricultural policy to increase food production with a view to increasing self-sufficiency, including: in the case of Norwegian consumers and preparedness. The cooperation parties also agree on the direction of this agricultural settlement. Agriculture also contributes to important social goods other than food, such as the preservation of Norwegian cultural landscapes, travel and scattered settlements. The operating conditions are different in different parts of the country. Therefore, the cooperation parties consider that a differentiation in the instruments should be maintained, which facilitates a varied use structure and ensures sustainable production of agricultural land throughout the country. In the case of cooperative parties, ownership and the conditions under which farmers operate are important for the purpose of industrial activity. Cooperation parties agree to strengthen resource-based use for full-time use, while maintaining a diverse use structure across the country. On this basis, the cooperation lots have found the basis for making certain adjustments to the structure profile contained in the proposition. It facilitates a simpler instrument system, which maintains a varied structure of use. Good recruitment to agriculture is essential for maintaining an agricultural industry throughout the country and for increasing food production. It is important for the cooperation parties to pursue an agricultural policy that gives young people confidence in the future, the desire and the ability to invest in agriculture as a profession. Cooperation parties agree that the climate agreement should be strengthened and that greenhouse gas mitigation measures, such as: is produced in the agricultural climate, followed up. The parties to the cooperation agreement indicate that the parties to the cooperation agreement agreed that the agricultural contract institute is maintained and that priority should be given to predictability and reforms that can increase profitability. The Parties stress that the negotiator is firm and that it is essential for future settlement not to undermine the Institute. Future settlements should follow common practice by joining the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's proposal on agricultural settlements and not being the subject of negotiations in the Grand Duchy. The cooperation parties agree that the country's offer for future agricultural settlements should be in line with the indications underlying the timing of the year's agricultural settlement and Innst. 8 S for 2013–2014. The cooperation parties agree that the offer made by the State should ensure a predictable framework for agriculture which can help to improve the overall profitability of the industry in the coming years. It is essential that farmers should be able to have income developments in line with other groups. The Parties agree that the Government’s proposal for the Grand Duchy ensures agriculture an average income growth in line with other groups for 2014-2015 and that it is in line with the current income target. The cooperation lots have found the basis for further improvements in the income possibilities for the agricultural settlement of the year, for example: strengthening the basis for recruitment to the industry and increasing food production. The cooperation parties recognise that Norwegian agriculture faces challenges. These must be taken seriously and met with knowledge-based solutions and new research. The cooperation parties agree that the following party-group investigations must be completed during 2015: – agricultural simplification, – the challenges of agriculture in meeting climate change - increased recruitment, The cooperation parties agreed to facilitate conversion and recruitment in agriculture and agreed to allocate 250 million. kr over the budget, compared to Prop. 106 S for 2013–2014. This is done according to the distribution of measures to be taken in the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e248	The outcome of the treatment of agricultural holdings this year indicates that the government was not in line with the bulk of the population. Looking at the amount, the financial framework has increased significantly – by one billion dollars. It is far more than the farmers well got the impression when they put in negotiations. A majority on the Stortinget, Workers' Party, SV, Left and Christian People's Party, says quite clearly on page 13 and page 15 that this was not in accordance with the intentions of the Stortinget. A majority of the Grand Duchy therefore asks the government to ensure, by means of future offers, that the adopted agricultural policy of the Grand Duchy is reflected in the State's offers. Why wasn't this year's offer anchored in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e257	Good income opportunities are the main means of ensuring the recruitment of agricultural workers and of achieving the agricultural policy objectives. As I said in my post, income development is crucial to the importance of the settlement framework, and it is also used in the year's settlement. In a minority government, you are dependent on the support of their partners, and we managed to achieve it here in the Storting, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e264	There was strictly no answer to my question. I think it is crucial, when dealing with an industry as crucial as agriculture is, and when we see that we need to increase domestic production based on Norwegian resources, and when we want to reform significantly, that more than that year's settlement is reflected, the Bigholding is anchored. So I repeat my question: What is the background for not choosing to anchor in the Storting at this round?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e275	Of course, it's a challenge for a minority government to get such good processes that everything is guaranteed at all times. I wish this matter had not come to Stortinget, so that the institute that exists is not rocked. This year it happened, the matter came to Stortinget, and as I said earlier, I am very happy that we managed to reach an agreement with our cooperation parties here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e280	I'll continue there the previous replicator ended. When one looks at the comments in the position and the clear leadership of the majority on the Stortinget on the forthcoming settlement, my question is: Can a settlement be provided next year that is equally poor, with the facility chosen by the government this year, or will it be contrary to the Storting's assumptions for agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e289	I fully agree that this policy area is very important and affects all the people living in this country. I wish we had broad agreements, which could ensure predictability and tranquillity in this area of policy. As I said earlier, good income opportunities are the main means of ensuring recruitment and achieving the agricultural policy objectives. The development of income has been the basis for the settlements for many years, and I assume that it does so in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e296	It is a broad majority on the Stortinget. All parties say that income opportunities are important in order to ensure recruitment and increase Norwegian food production. What I think it is important to clarify is whether this setting will mean that the government has to make a better offer – economically and with a different device than the year’s settlement. It's considered a yes/no question. Have the government parties taken the signals from the Storting that this year's settlement is too poor and that next year's settlement needs to be improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e304	Of course, I can't stand here foreshadowing future agricultural settlements, but the joint comments relating to the things we agree on will naturally be taken care of in future settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e309	I understand that it is very far inside the representative Foss to be clear whether it is now the majority in the European Parliament that has said about the development of agricultural policy that applies, or whether it is the government's starting point that is the important thing, because in his post Foss concluded by saying that she hoped that the Stortinget would join the government's proposals to the Stortinget almost in any case. I think that's ominous, because the government's arrangement was very bad, it led to a breach, and I haven't heard anything in the representative Foss has said to now, which shows that there is a real recognition that this was a bad arrangement that had to be changed. Is it so that the representative Foss still believes that the original arrangement was the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e316	Now it is that the policy is adopted on the Stortinget and not on the back of the government, as in the previous period. That means it's the Big thing that decides. When the matter comes here, it is the Storting that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e321	We're going to increase Norwegian food production, and it's going to be based on Norwegian resources. This was also confirmed by the case-rapporteur, Ingunn Foss, at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Bondelag, but it is essential that the grain economy improves. What is the reason why the improvement achieved in the cereal economy will only have an effect for zones 1 to 4, and why is that restriction sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e328	Now I do not know all the details of the device in all areas. I just have to admit that. We have received some feedback from our grain farmers that this settlement is not bad, and it was added a little extra to the grain in the agreement with the cooperation parties, so I feel that it is well taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e333	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e336	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his clean-up and, in spite of all the circumstances of this settlement, the relevant rapporteurs. Both the process and the content of the agricultural settlement of the year did not turn out to be the way it should. Therefore, in the Workers' Party, together with the Centre Party, we ask that the settlement be returned to the government. I am therefore addressing this proposal. Norwegian agriculture needs changes. We'll be in on that. Nevertheless, the agricultural debate is often influenced by myths, and it is claimed that agriculture is inefficient, expensive and incapable of conversion. The recently submitted agricultural strategy of the Labour Party, Green Growth, suggests that many, even closer to hundreds of thousands of people are employed in relation to soil and forest. The activity is a support for our district housing, and in the future we will depend on increased production. Norwegian food is smooth over good and healthy. Minor soya imports and increased Norwegian production are well prepared. There are many myths about production. In fact, in Norway more is produced. In the last decades, production has increased by 3 pst., despite a fall in labour consumption by 1 100 yearly jobs in the last years and a decline in use by 39 pst. since 1999. It represents enormous efficiency and structural change. In the last ten years, productivity growth has increased by 4.6 pst., compared to about 2.5 pst. in the Norwegian industry. Norwegian agriculture is poorly suited to characteristics such as cemetery or communism. Former Ministerial Council of the Ministry of Agriculture for many years, Per Harald Grue, writes in his recently published books on Norwegian agricultural policy – second volume, page 170 – the following about the agricultural negotiations: ‘Reciprocal trust and ability and willingness for solution-oriented dialogue is the main glue in the contractual system.’ In the opinion of the Workers' Party, the government lacked such ability and will during the year's settlement. The glue is getting confused. We live at a time when there is a need to ensure that Norwegian production is carried out as far as possible on Norwegian resources, that we exploit this country's diversity. Small and large must be guaranteed opportunities to operate, and the government has not contributed to such a race. I find absolute reason to give both the Christian People's Party and the Left Honor that they stood on and brought the result in the right direction when most things looked as darkest, with the breakdown of negotiations, the uneasiness of what was the government's limit, and structural changes that were too massive. In our opinion, they did not reach far enough. The Labour Party believes that the economic environment is still too weak, that the structure is too much for the small ones, and that a better grain economy is absolutely necessary. A majority in Stortinget is critically judging the government's policy and implementation of the year's settlement with clear signals for next year. The Workers' Party, SV, Christian People's Party and Left have in each of their notes – pages 12, 13 and 15 in the setting – equal comments in word. A good thing can't be said too often, and in these comments it says: ‘These members are satisfied that an overall increase is in line with the objective of increased food production, with the intention of increasing the level of self-sufficiency based on Norwegian resources.’ [[...]] In addition, they say that it is: ‘key use of the resource base throughout the country.’» [[...]] It must: ‘to facilitate a varied use structure, which also increases the profitability of small and medium-sized applications.’;» [[...]] Further: ‘These members cannot see that the country’s offer for agricultural settlement provided sufficient framework conditions and instruments to ensure profitability also for small and medium-sized applications. These members stress that observations by the majority of the Economic and Social Committee on the need to ensure increased profitability in agriculture are the adopted agricultural policy of the Stortinge and that it is to be expected that the government in the country’s future offers will be based on the assumptions of the Stortinge agricultural policy.» I may have referred to the majority's comments to a greater extent, mainly because we rarely see a government that has received a clearer message from a great majority. It is crucial for future policies, whether we are going to get where we want this to be anchored in the Stortingen. If we're going to be able to ensure the predictability that both the actors and not least we here in Stortinget have talked a lot about, and if we're going to be able to ensure recruitment for an industry that we think should produce food as the population develops, the government must set out a new and different course. Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian consumers deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e383	The representative Knut Storberget has taken up the proposal he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e388	It is almost touching to hear the newly won Labour Party care for agriculture. The working party was in the 1990s, when it was placed alone, almost the break-up party in the agricultural negotiations. When the representative Storberget says that the process and content have not been as desired, he has to take much of the responsibility for it himself. The signals about what the Workers' Party actually thinks have flourished. It's been signaled in the media that you want to increase the transfer to 450 million. $200 million. kr over what is now agreed upon. Then you go into the vote with a proposal that says that you should send the agricultural agreement back, and then the income development from last year's settlement should form the framework for what is to come back. That means a cost of between 800 million. SEK and 850 million. kr. What does Storberget mean? How will he finance his own division?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e397	How to finance your own division is a slightly unclear question, to be completely honest, but it is difficult for the opposition parties and for the Workers' Party to take some responsibility for the process that the government has set up in connection with the agricultural settlement. The government has chosen to join a majority of the Left and Christian People's Party – with full respect for it – but according to my concepts, the government and the Council of State are responsible for the agricultural settlement that is now heading towards the end of the road. That is what I think the representative of Gunnar Gundersen should be responsible for. As far as our proposals are concerned, we have always thought that there must be a ring around the negotiating institute, but we have clearly indicated that if we are to be able to cope with the income development that we had when the red-green government left the government offices, we are dependent on, as it stood both in our remarks and in our outings, a much better financial framework. We estimated at least 450 million. NOK, which would just help to keep up the course you had earlier to close the income gap.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e404	The representative of Storberget says you didn't go far enough. At the same time, the representative Storberget has also said that the target price is lower, that we want to strengthen the grain economy – we hear from the post – that we want to reverse the climate and the environment, and that we want to improve recruitment measures. All of this is to be financed within a framework of 200 million. kr more than what we got into the agreement with the government parties. I'd say, in a very good way, that there won't be so many more dollars to strengthen the economy of the farmers of the small and medium-sized uses, in addition to what has been done in the agreement. I'm asking for a clarification of this. What would an average dairy farmer get increased with the proposal that the Workers' Party has written about in its comments and talked about in the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e412	It is not our intention – and I think it is important, in respect of the negotiating institute – to sit in the Storting and regulate in detail and place the money we think the framework should be increased, in the respective posts. There are many posts we think should be strengthened. See, for example, in area grants for roughage, there is a breakdown showing that the small ones are still losing. You have the ability, within any amount, to distribute differently. That's the one. But I'm a little bit surprised: when the Workers' Party says you should have at least 450 million. In these negotiations to negotiate with, there is such a small additional amount towards what was the end of the visa. It's almost the same thing that the Christian People's Party was able to add by turning the cut – 250 million. kr. A quarter of a billion more, I think, in fact, is important. It could achieve important conditions, both in terms of strengthening the cereal economy, in terms of welfare schemes and in terms of climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e419	It's interesting to note that the Workers' Party is proposing an increase of 450 million. kr in their proposal, and then they join the Centre Party and propose an increase of 825 million. kr. What is at least equally interesting is that the Labour Party's agricultural policy platform sees a structural change towards greater use. At the same time, it is criticised in its remarks that the structural change that has now been introduced is in favour of the major uses. My question is: is it the representative of Storberget – and the comments he makes in Stortinget – that we should deal with, or is it the agricultural policy platform of the Workers' Party that is the right one?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e428	I am very happy to have that question, because it gives me the opportunity to talk about the agricultural policy of the Workers' Party. We've been working a lot on it in the spring and we've made a strategy, which we've called Green Growth. I ask everyone to read it. We recognise that, historically, in recent years — since 1999 — the number of use has fallen by 39 pst. If it keeps going at the same rate, it's different, but we're going to have a decrease in the number of uses. Nevertheless, we never have to put ourselves in such a position that, if you recognize it, you have to be involved in all kinds of structural changes, of all kinds of degrees. On the part of the Workers' Party, it has been important in this settlement to just signal that there is some small and medium-sized use that we are totally dependent on in order to benefit from the production opportunities in Norway, and not to get into a situation where we, among other things, are. have such a large dairy population that they enter cereal areas and so that many of the roughage areas in Norway become fallow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e437	I'm a little surprised by the Right Party and the Advance Party, who have not understood the dynamics and the relationship between the Center Party and the Workers' Party. What comes from the Workers' Party is good, so it gets even better when they cooperate with the Center Party. It's also happened now. So it's going up a little bit. That's why we have a good cooperation. I can also confirm that we had a very good cooperation with the Workers' Party in the discussion on customs protection. There was some resistance, but when the arguments came up, we joined forces to secure Norwegian industrial jobs and ensure Norwegian food production throughout the country. So by cooperating, you can make each other better. I have to say that it has been a pleasure to listen to the Workers' Party for a lot of laps now in ours. It's been clear and clear. I wish to speak clearly and clearly once again from my good colleague, Knut Storberget, on behalf of the Workers' Party. Can the representative confirm that the Labour Party's policy is to close the income gap between agriculture and other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e448	First of all, I want to say that I think a lot of parties can do each other good -- mutually. I do not conceal that much of the red-green cooperation – and not least cooperation with the Centre Party – in this very area contributed to increasing political attention around a field that we in the Workers' Party actually believe is just becoming more important and more important. That's why I thank you. The objectives set by the Workers' Party on the issue of income development are reflected in our agricultural strategy. There we have said that we believe it is right to continue the income policy and the development of income that we left when we left the government offices, and which was most evident in the agricultural settlement in 2013. It was a significant seal on the income gap. I can't stand here and promise what future agricultural settlements will bring, but that's in the direction we want to work. The working party has always had the sense to make the differences between people less.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e457	It is gratifying that the representative of Storberget pays tribute to the efforts of the Left. The Storberget takes up his own myths in his article. I am so old that I remember early in the 1990s, when the biggest restructuring in Norwegian agriculture took place, with the Council of State Eyeågen. It's interesting to see the new orientation that's happening in the Workers' Party, but I'm asking myself if it's credible. I also think it is interesting that what the Left and Christian People's Party gets in place is not mentioned in one word, namely, that we get diversity back. The big mountain said here that he has no objection that it will be possible for those who are big to get bigger. That's exactly what's happening right now, that gets the greatest chance to get bigger and produce more. Does the representative Storberget disagree with making it more robust?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e468	I'd say so that we also see the need for structural changes, but there's a difference between shaving and cutting off our heads. That's why I think it's a pity that you get processes – like the one we've had around this year's agricultural settlement – that really help to get the Storting off. Now we have the hope of – among other things. thanks to the efforts of the Left and Christian People's Party – more will be heard in the future. So a little bit to the story: the Minister of Agriculture Gunhild Eyeågen is mentioned here, for which I have great respect. As can be seen from my article, I have read Grue's book, which reviews all the farm arrangements. What strikes me in the first place, when you go through all the agricultural operations, is that they are marked by their time. In the 1990s and Gunhild, the economy was rather tight, which helped to get these settlements a completely different device from what you're up to today. That's how I think it has to be. If you go to 1987, right - hand motions of censure were put on the farm because there was too little money there. I think we can hardly draw any particular experience of older agricultural settlements against those we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e475	I am also of those who enjoy what I hear as a little new tones from the Workers' Party – much more emphasis on the need for increased food production, and much more understanding that we need to have small uses and combined use. It's a theme I want to challenge the Workers' Party on. It is stated in proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party, today, namely: ‘The Government is asked to establish its own animal supervision.’ We are very dependent on animal supervision, that is to say to separate animal supervision from the Food Authority, and to have their own animal supervision. It is important – ethically, of course, and for the alliance we must have with Norwegian consumers – that we are absolutely sure that Norwegian food production is animal friendly and that we are able to follow it up well, better than today. Is the Workers' Party willing to consider such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e489	We are not willing to decide that matter in a reply to the agricultural settlement. But the tasks of the Food Authority, linked to animal welfare, are certainly important. I believe that one of the advantages of Norwegian agricultural policy is that we include: has a good level of animal protection and animal health, but it can be better. Now we are faced with quite major structural changes in the Food Authority, and we need to follow closely to ensure that animal supervision is taken into account. That's what I can say about it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e496	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e499	Norwegian agricultural policy has received a lot of attention after we got a new and better government. There may be many reasons for this, but at least one thing is certain: there are many who are talking about changes in agricultural policy, but no one has done anything about it before. That's what this government has done. It has been done and will be undertaken to change today's agricultural policy. If we want an agricultural policy in Norway in the future, it is necessary. When current policies work poorly, and most will have changes, these changes must also be made dry. Changes create commitment, and commitment is good. Of course, there will be some who disagree with changes — largely regardless of what these changes are about. What has been proposed by changes in the agricultural settlement of the year are good and necessary measures and simplifications, which, together with future settlements, will stimulate increased production of food and better and simpler management and control. The proposal for a common quota ceiling for all types of milk undertakings is a major advantage. Having two different production ceilings affects the choice of the type of organisation of manufacturers. By harmonising production ceilings for co-operation and single use, the legislation will no longer affect the decision on the choice of organisational form at this point. It will also contribute to simplification related to the management and control of operational cooperation. It is also proposed to liquidate the separate co-operation legislation with number and distance requirements. This makes it possible for milk producers to adapt as best they can without a specific co-operative legislation limiting the number or the distance between them. The aggregation of livestock premium rates, the introduction of grants for more than 50 animals at the same level as for other bovine animals, and the payment of the same premium to sheep, irrespective of the mode of operation, will facilitate legislation. It simplifies control and eliminates incentives to reclassify or move animals between categories of animals or between undertakings. A sheep is a sheep, at least in a grant context. Winding up the turnover requirement to be prepared for production grants instead of raising the bottom deduction is a major advantage. There are currently no conditions under which the turnover limit is to be linked to agricultural activities. Requirements for taxable turnover as basic conditions for grants are also inappropriate both for the applicant and for management. We therefore remove a bureaucratic and inappropriate turnover requirement of NOK 20 000. In order to limit non-agricultural activities, we raise the bottom deduction from NOK 3000 to NOK 6000. Substantial increase in the amount of livestock subsidies is also a change that will benefit Norwegian agriculture. The ceiling on the livestock premium of SEK 280 000 has also made it economically advantageous to split into several enterprises to obtain the most subsidies possible. By doubling the ceiling, it will be less profitable to adapt the legislation and get the most out of it. The purpose of Norwegian agriculture is to produce good Norwegian food, not to extract subsidies. Today, it's 1 million thanks. kr which is the maximum payment for investment grants. We believe that it is the project and local conditions that have to decide what is being paid, and not a limit that has been set at random by the state. These are some of the proposed amendments that will contribute to a positive development in Norwegian agriculture. There are also signs of a powerful government, with a government council that has impact and that will and dare to do something about Norwegian agricultural policy. This is a victory – both for agriculture and the government. Before judging the proposals north and down, you might want to wait and see the results when they come. I think many will be very positively surprised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e521	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e524	The working party is occupied by those who make the food, by the industry and by the consumer. So we don't want to increase all of the target prices in our scheme. The progress point in the opposition shouts high on cheaper food. Reasonable food and wine for the people, was well a slogan. They have actually done something about the tax-free quota in the case of wine. They're still busy. But how can the Progress Party defend the increase in food prices? Would the Progress Party no longer have more reasonable food for the people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e531	If we had continued what happened in the previous agricultural settlement, when the Workers' Party put in government, the food prices would actually have doubled compared to what they are today. In fact, this increase in the target price that has been introduced is only half of what was presented in the previous agricultural settlement. The promotion party is to have the lowest possible prices, but in order to get the lowest possible prices, we need to have an efficient and robust agriculture that can produce good Norwegian food. I think with the setup that's now presented, that's what's going to be the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e538	There will be a lot of time on the part of the Progress Party to talk about simplification measures. Historical simplification is used. We have requested answers from the Council of State on the effect of simplifications without having received them. So I now want to challenge the representative to get an answer to what kind of savings there is in the simplification measures for the individual farmer? How much less paperwork can you expect next year than what you have today? We have not received a response from the Council of State to this, so perhaps it is also difficult for the representative to answer. Therefore, I would like to design the question as follows: Can the representative estimate whether this is an average of more than half an hour or less saved paperwork for a Norwegian farmer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e543	Neither the undersigned nor anyone else knows in detail what the individual farmer spends time on the various tasks. Making such calculations and calculations as the representative here asks for is far more than my capacity, and I think it is far more than the representative's capacity as well. But we know that when you make simplifications, when you do steps to help get less bureaucracy, fewer forms to fill in, it will turn out to be positive, both for the individual farmer and for the administration. The proposals put forward will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e550	I noticed that we did not get an answer as to whether this was more or less than half an hour per Norwegian farmer. Then I would like to ask, in connection with a concrete proposal made by the government, which fortunately was reversed in Stortinget: is it still such that the Progress Party believes it deserves simplification measures when cutting out an early retirement scheme, from which Norwegian farmers had arranged and thought to change generations? So it was ironed out with a pen stroke from the Advance Party and the Right. Fortunately, it returned to the landfill treatment. Equally full is this in the proposition of the government as a simplification measure. Does the representative agree that this is a good simplification measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e555	All business measures proposed in the proposal are good and necessary simplification measures to contribute to increased food production and improved Norwegian agriculture economy. It's always so that when things get to Stortinget, changes happen. The changes that have occurred in this settlement, there is agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then there is no reason for me to criticise the results that have come. I welcome the fact that we are now receiving an agricultural settlement from which Norwegian agriculture will benefit, which will increase and improve food production in Norway. The changes that have occurred in this settlement, there is agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is also no need for me to criticise in any way the results that have come, and I welcome the fact that we are now receiving an agricultural settlement from which Norwegian agriculture will benefit and which will increase and improve food production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e562	It may be a good thing for us to know that the Progress Party believes that, for example. poorer pension schemes, abolished pension schemes, are a good simplification measure to strengthen Norwegian agriculture. The removal of subsidies for minor uses is clearly a measure aimed at increasing recruitment and food production and strengthening Norwegian agriculture. There is a lot of what the representative says, which is not at all related to the goal that the Progress Party together with the Left and Christian People's Party has been involved in saying that we have, that we should increase recruitment, we should increase food production, we should ensure agriculture throughout the country. And then the question is: is it the government's line of agricultural policy to be followed, or is it the majority of the Stortingen's line of agricultural policy to be promoted in the forthcoming settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e569	The agricultural settlement is a negotiation between the government and the agricultural partners. If there is a breach, the case ends in Stortinget – as any other matter. In all of the issues dealt with in Stortinget, the bulk of the population decides, so I can't quite see the problem that Karin Andersen is trying to pull up. In the case of increased food production — of course, it permeates the entire proposition, and the decision taken here today has to do with increased food production. But it also says that we're betting on those who want to produce more food. We're betting on those who want to get a little bit bigger. But that doesn't mean we're going to remove those that are smaller, or those that are medium-sized. We want us to have small and medium-sized applications, but it also needs to be made possible for those who want to grow and produce more food to have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e576	In its Norwegian agricultural policy programme, the Progress Party has proposed halving the support for Norwegian agriculture in the short term and even cutting it to the full in the long term. Yeah, as late as last year, the party suggested cutting 5.5 billion. kr. The same applies to the customs walls that the party would remove, which are currently guarding Norwegian agricultural production. With these measures, this pressure industry would be left with halved revenues and barely so. But not according to the argument of the Progress Party. Instead, farmers should have increased freedom to do what they want. Yes, perhaps the best agricultural areas in the Jären and the central eastern regions will survive such free competition without substantial support, but otherwise agriculture in our rural areas will be doomed. My opinion is that for Norwegian agriculture, life is created as long as conditions are established, and there is a willingness to take care of rural agriculture. Luckily, the majority of the Stortinges believe this. My question to the Progress Party is: Can we fear that the Progress Party will take seriously its programme and previous year's cutbacks in its offers in the years ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e581	The Progress Party has a programme on which we as representatives have been elected. We're doing everything we can to implement this program – it should just be missing. At the same time, we are in government with another party, and we have two other parties that we have to deal with in order to have a majority on the Stortinget, namely the Christian People's Party and the Left, with which we have an incredibly good cooperation. We want to promote our proposals for changes in agricultural policy, because we believe that it will make a positive contribution. Many of the simplification proposals that have now been included in this proposal are proposals that the Progress Party has previously tabled, which are in line with the policy of the Progress Party. But then we also have some arrangements that make it possible to save a lot of money. When there are schemes that cost as much to administer as what you distribute, there is a potential to do something to simplify those schemes, so that this benefits the individual farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e589	I hear that the Progress Party sees it as a simplification measure to remove the early retirement pension for Norwegian farmers. Does one believe that it may be a simplification measure also for other groups to eliminate the possibility of early retirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e594	As the representative, Mr Vedum, also sees the proposition, there is no suggestion there to remove the early retirement scheme – it has been reinstated. Then the representative Ørsal Johansen relates to the proposition and the majority behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e599	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e602	It's a different political everyday life in the Storting than the one we've witnessed in the last eight years. Comments on the State budget, comments on the year’s settlement and comments on a future agricultural policy lead the UK policy. It is in this Chamber and through the previous policy of enlargement that it is created and adopted. This is a responsibility of the Economic and Social Committee to be aware during the examination of the agricultural situation, in particular following a breach between the trade unions and the State. The new political reality needs to be managed in a way that takes care of the negotiating institute, while at the same time adopting policies in this Chamber. The Christian People's Party has some pillars that are committed to our agricultural policy. We want to facilitate active farmers throughout the country. We want an instrument that ensures a varied use structure for the use of the areas we have available. We want to increase the belief in the future both for actors who want to enter the industry and for those who are there and will invest in it. We want to increase food production based on Norwegian resources, with the intention of increasing self-sufficiency. The value chain from land to table is important. Our food industry depends on Norwegian raw materials as well. In order to achieve all of this, the economy had to be improved in relation to the state's supply, especially for small and medium-sized uses and the grain economy. We did this, among other things. by strengthening the livestock premium for sheep, increasing the operating grant for milk and improving the rates of area grants for cereals. This agreement has thus brought policy closer to the primary position of the Christian People's Party, which is that farmers as self-employed should be able to reduce the income gap to other groups themselves. I also record that the Central Party now, after they are out of government, supports the Christian People's Party's position. That's good. The peasant team says the following about the agreement: ‘The agreement between Krf, Left and Government is a clear improvement in the offer made by the State in the agricultural negotiations [[...]] But Per Harald Grue, former Ministry Council of Agriculture over several decades and probably Norway's leading expert on agricultural policy, said in an interview with the NRK yesterday that the outcome of the year's settlement is a step in the right direction and that production is likely to increase as a result. And he went on to say, «Then something important has happened in Stortingen this year. For the first time, the Storting has intervened in an agricultural settlement quite significantly. Historically, there has never been such a change in the Stortinget as it did in the agreement between the KRF, the Left and the government parties. So I mean, in many ways, there's a slightly different agricultural policy that the majority of the population now stands for, than what the government went to Stortinget with. And the most important thing is that you now, you could say, allocate 250 million. kr more this year. Over a four-year period, it turns out to be a billion. And that means that for many milk producers, it becomes a significantly better economic result, especially for the smaller and medium-sized ones. And I think that the effect of what is now presented is that there will be more of the 10,000 that will consider continuing production and investing. [[...]] This is an important and good certificate for the work the Left and Christian People's Party has done here in the Storting. This shows that we succeeded in two areas in particular where we wanted to improve the offer. One was to strengthen those who got the worst out of the offer, namely small and medium-sized farms and the grain economy. The second was to provide clear guidance for the next agricultural settlement in order to avoid a similar situation again. But on the part of the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress that the negotiating institute is the best mechanism for determining farmers' wage development. The agreement strengthened small and medium-sized applications, in particular in sheep, milk and cereals. We increased the premium to a herd of 0-100 sheep, increased the operating premium for all dairy farms and increased the premium per deer grain in zones 1-4. This stimulates more production on cereals, which has a key function in the production of food and feed cereals. In addition, welfare schemes were strengthened and the early retirement scheme continued. We also received limited release from both milk quotas and subsidy ceilings. In the next few years, we have determined that agriculture on small and medium-sized uses throughout the country should be one of the pillars of agriculture, but it should also be allowed to be or become large in 2015. In addition, we will ensure increased food production of Norwegian resources, increased self-sufficiency and increased profitability. I'm eager to secure the future in the industry. This is done by ensuring a competitive income, ensuring flexible and good working conditions and ensuring that industry is forward-looking and innovative. A lot has happened on the innovation side in recent years. Poultry have more technical ‘dupediters’ than an average of 16-year-olds may have. Milk robot and other technical devices release more time and give the farmer greater flexibility. In addition, there is great progress on the breeding side, resulting in increased productivity. These are areas where we're good, but where we can get even better. Research and development is an area where we should bet even more and get even better. It will make agriculture even more productive. Even with an agricultural sector that has had a productivity growth in the last few years in the double of other mainland industries, we can always get better. The significant growth of agricultural productivity in recent years reflects innovative and adaptable agriculture, such as the ability to use innovation and technology to promote increased value creation. The majority – Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People’s Party – want a big message on agriculture and forestry. Some have been asked why it is coming so early — after the previous farm communication. I would rather ask another question, perhaps a little bit vice versa. Why hasn't it come before? Perhaps much of the uncertainty and unrest that we have experienced in the last year had been avoided if a big message, on the basis of which a clear majority was involved, had existed before the agricultural settlement of the year. A key message will be the ability of the government to present a comprehensive agricultural policy. We say something about this in the setting. We want an agricultural policy that stimulates ‘increased food production’. We want ‘a differentiation in the instruments that facilitates a varied structure of use’. We want ‘increased value creation’ and a ‘sustainable industry’. The majority say something about it in the setting. Then, from Stortinget's side, we have the opportunity, when the government has delivered a big message, to give our response to it. That's how it becomes an important document, which gives us the opportunity to see the whole thing and to work out the course. Let me end by saying that the settlement did not become exactly as the Christian People's Party and the Left would, nor exactly as the Advance Party and the Right would. But compromises are the nature of politics. The easiest thing for us in the Christian People's Party would have been to throw everything away, resign and stand at our primary positions in opposition. But we took responsibility – we took the responsibility we took on last autumn to be a constructive opposition party. We took responsibility and secured an agricultural settlement that is significantly better for small and medium-sized applications. We strengthened the grain economy. We strengthened the welfare systems and the environmental profile more than what was done by the government. We've had an exciting spring. We've learned a lot. It has not been easy, but it has been necessary for agriculture and the food industry — but above all for those who want to go into agriculture and have it as their future diet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e646	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e649	In the agricultural notification and at the latest in Prop. 1 S for 2013–2014 sets out clear objectives for agricultural policy in the future. Through the cooperation agreement, the Christian People's Party has negotiated an increased framework in the year's settlement. Does the Christian People’s Party believe that the government’s offer was not in line with the Storting’s objective? How will the Christian People's Party ensure that future offers are in line with the majority's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e656	We say in the comment in today's vote that the state's offer "was not sufficiently consistent" with Storting's view. We have ensured what the representative of Omland is concerned about, through the leadership that we have given – that we need to increase food production, that we need to have a varied usage structure, that we need to focus on small, medium and large uses, that we need to use the whole country, that we need to invest in recruitment, and that cereals are important. These are the leaderships on which a majority in this Chamber agrees. It has been important for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e661	The Central Party understands that the Christian People's Party could not fully achieve the offensive objectives of income development that they had in the previous period. We are pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have contributed to the fact that the settlement is a smaller step in the wrong direction than the government provided. What surprises me is that we have become aware through the media that the Christian People's Party and the Left joined the negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party with a demand for an increase in the budget of 250 million. kr, although one knew that in order to avoid increased income differences there had to be 320 million. kr. When one knows that the fasitite is that the Christian People's Party and the Left got what they asked for, shouldn't Christian People's Party and the Left then have made a higher demand for the government – entered into the negotiations with a demand that would prevent the income differences between groups in agriculture and other groups from increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e668	For a long time there has been only a Christian People's Party in this room that has wanted to reduce the income gap between farmers and other groups. We've been saying that in our comments for eight years. Now the Center Party has joined this. As I said in my main post, that's good. But although the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are important parties, we do not have a majority in this Chamber. We improved the income of the farmers in the settlement of the year. It was important. It was important to bring about important structural changes. It was the most important thing for the Christian People's Party in this year's settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e675	I believe that real reduced income differences — as in last year’s settlement — are more important for agriculture than observations. Let there be no doubt that last year's settlement reduced income differences. My follow-up question is this: With the leadership that the majority of the committee has now given, can the government, next year, deliver an offer with the framework and the device they provided this year, and nevertheless act in line with the Storting's assumptions, or is the Storting's assumption – in the view of the Christian People's Party – that there must be a different settlement, with a higher framework and a different device than what we saw from the government this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e682	The negotiating institute is the government's responsibility, and I think in this room we do well to leave it the government's responsibility to offer the trade unions an offer and also to negotiate. The Christian People's Party regretted that there was no agreement on this year's offer. With regard to next year's settlement, the majority – the Advance Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party – have set out clear leadership in this settlement. There are leads in the agreement, which you will see again next year's offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e690	The representative of the Christian People's Party says that neither the Left nor the Christian People's Party got what they wanted in the negotiations. They were very critical of the government's proposal, and they did not get what they wanted in the negotiations. But instead of forming a majority with the Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV – as we could have done – for an agricultural policy that is much closer to the Christian People's Party, they therefore chose to mountain the Minister of Agriculture Listhaug rather than the small users. Therefore, there is reason to ask again whether what I think we got a very vague answer instead, namely whether it is now that the government should have the same freedom again to negotiate a result that might be broken out of government policy, take the matter very far in one direction, and then, like a large number of people, should clean up a little bit. That means that it goes pretty fast in the wrong direction in relation to what the Christian People's Party also says. Or is it the case now that the government has to come to Stortinget with something within the framework of the majority's position on the farm?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e695	For there to be no misunderstanding: what I said was that the Christian People's Party did not fully achieve what we wanted, and that is the nature of the compromises in politics. It is not that the undersigned have ‘saved’ the Council of State Listhaug, but we have helped and provided for a better economy for the average sow farmer. With 60 sheep he or she will get 200 kroner more per lamb that is born, he or she will get 2.5 times more in slaughter supplements than what was in today's offer. It's saving the peasants and the average sow farmer. It was important for the Christian People's Party. These are the leaders we have put on the table, and that is what is crucial in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e700	The Christian People's Party has gone a long way both in the election campaign and in comments on budget support and statements to close the agricultural income gap. I assume that the Christian People's Party will see that the party would get a lot more if they had joined the Central Party and the Workers' Party in this agricultural settlement, and I can assure you that in my part of the country in particular the concerns are very great. How problematic is it now for the Christian People's Party to have to refrain from achieving its own agricultural policy objectives for the whole country in order to keep the Progress Party and the Right in the government offices? Can the representative guarantee that the Christian People's Party for the future settlements will not be honoured by the Advance Party and the Right and change agricultural policy away from the expressed objectives of the Great Britain majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e707	I can reassure the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, that the feedback received from the undersigned in view of North Norway, and the dialogue we have had with farmers in the north shows that they are also satisfied. They have seen – as was said at Bondetinget – that the Left and Christian People's Party stood up. We stood up for a political direction that this country needs. We've been credited for that, and it also shows the statements I referred to in my own post. What we also did in this agreement was that we secured important things in terms of recruitment. The deployment of the early retirement scheme is an important recruitment measure. It does something about the generational shift, it creates predictability. It is also important for farmers in the part of the country represented by the representative, and I think you should remember that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e714	I did not get a response on the direction. We see that especially the Advance Party, but also the Right, wants a different direction, and then we're talking not only about the number of dollars put on the table, but about a completely different direction, in contrast to the large number. How will the Progress Party deal with it in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e719	How the Advance Party will handle it, I don't know, but how Christian...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e724	Christian People's Party, excuse me!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e729	How the Christian People's Party will handle it, at least I can try to answer it. We have added leaders together with the Advance Party, along with the Right, together with the Left in the position we are dealing with today, that we should have increased food production throughout the country, and that there should be a varied usage structure, which fits North Norway well. The lambs that may have come out on pasture five weeks after the lambs here in the south may have the largest slaughter weight when they are to be slaughtered in the autumn. Why? Well, for the part of the country that the representative represents is a good part of the country in view of the midnight sun, where the crops do not take any rest, it is produced, and the lambs become good. It has also facilitated this representative through this settlement. It's a direction that Knutsen's representative can take with him and greet the northern countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e734	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e737	Providing food for your own population is a core task for a country. Norway has little resources to produce food, and active policies are needed to ensure maximum self-sufficiency in food. It is therefore very gratifying that the majority of the Committee states in its position on the agricultural settlement of the year: ‘The majority of the Committee refers to a real increase in the level of self-sufficiency depending on increased food production on the basis of Norwegian resources.’ [[...]] Then add one to what should have been a matter of course: ‘This must be taken into account in the formulation of agricultural policy.’ Furthermore, the parties representing the majority of the Committee say that the objective of increased food production based on Norwegian resources is to: ‘To achieve this, it is necessary to provide sufficient facilities for a varied use structure where also small and medium-sized applications increase profitability.’ I'm glad that the majority of the population are so clear in the coming years, and I'm glad that the Storting also takes the pedagogical task of explaining to the government what the relationship between big business and government is actually, and determines that the government in the state's future offers must take on the assumption of the Storting's agricultural policy. I am pleased that the Stortinge gives such clear notice to the government that what we have seen this spring, we will not be left until next year. The centre party believes that the most important measure to increase Norwegian food production and ensure the recruitment of the food industry is to improve the income of the industry. The structure of the government — even after rounds in the Storting — will increase the income gap between agriculture and other groups. That responsibility must also be borne by the Christian People's Party and the Left. I record that it is said that the agreement between the four parties is a step in the right direction. When the goal is reduced income differences, I believe that an agricultural settlement that increases income differences is a step in the wrong direction, not in the right direction, and I assume that we will not experience similar poor settlement next year. But I'm worried that the Christian People's Party and the Left in their demands for the government parties' incomes lacked 70 million. to ensure a level playing field. The centre party believes that the agricultural demand of 1.5 billion dollars. kr was sober. We would like the escalation from last year's settlement to be continued, and we have put forward proposals for this in the year's settlement. I guess we're 575 million. kr to reach that goal. It shows that it actually means something to Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production whether the Senterpartiet is in government or not. Since the election campaign, there has been a lot of attention and debate around Norwegian agriculture. For those who are going into the industry and investing millions of dollars, there is no need for as much game as possible, ideologically motivated play and increased uncertainty about the framework conditions for Norwegian food production. Predictability and willingness to pursue an active agricultural policy are needed. The most oversold political message of this enlargement period is the list of simplification measures proposed. A historical simplification, it's claimed. The removal of schemes obviously involves simplifications. The Council of State would even take the pension from people who had aligned themselves with this scheme and put on the label ‘Simplification’. It's a long, but rather thin list the government has come up with. Someone likes to claim that we all really agree on agricultural policy. Everyone wants to have increased food production, everyone wants to have a different use structure, and everyone wants food production to be done with Norwegian resources. No, there's an unrooted consensus in reality. The truth is that this is a social struggle going on and that agricultural policy is probably the area of Norwegian policy where the differences between the extremes in this room are greatest. For the farmer, who stands up every morning to care for the animals for the Norwegian people to get safe food, little consensus in the parties helps. Real willingness to pursue an active agricultural policy is required in order to achieve its objectives. Today we are far from it. The centre party is strongly critical in the setting to the way the government has managed the agricultural settlement of the year. Norwegian food producers deserve better, and they deserve that the Council of State ends with its systematic grievances that agriculture is an area where nothing has happened in a long time. I would refer to the government's own proposition, paragraph 3.3.4, and challenge it in which other industries may point to similar efficiency. On 20 May we witnessed a strong protest against the government's agricultural policy outside the Stortinget. 5,000 protesters were gathered, very many of them young. It is still possible to hear the echo of the silence of the crowd when the Council of State had given its speech. My clear impression is that Norwegian farmers are ready to do the job of increasing food production, but then they need increased incomes, not ideological eases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e774	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e778	Many new products have been made available to consumers through competition in the dairy sector. In its inauguration, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum boasted of the cooperation between the Centre Party and the Labour Party. Now, the Center Party is the only party in the committee that doesn't make a comment that we're together to say that we're busy facilitating independent dairy operators. Is it okay for Tine, as a market manager, to set prices when independent reports point out that this can be a challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e785	For the Centre Party, one of the pillars of agricultural policy is co-operative. The fact that the farmers go together and own these companies together is very important. Then we have also under the red-green government, and with a Minister of Agriculture from the Central Party, we have had room for private alternatives to, for example. Tine. They have favorable and good arrangements to deal with. Some people think they're too good, and the actors themselves think they're too bad. But we've also underlined in our comments the setting of the settlement that we're not going in and comment on all of the individual points. That's the background because we've chosen to stand outside of that note.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e792	A few weeks ago, I was visiting a dairy farmer in Sande, Westfold, on the border of Drammen, my hometown. There I had the pleasure of standing for the official opening of the Sande-bond Arnstein Grill Fasting's new giant feather to 10.2 million. kr. I record that technology has come a long way, including in agriculture. Now there's robotic milking going on, and robots like, among other things. measures and checks the quality of the milk and whether the cows are ill. Even the milking of the cumin is done automatically. It is automatic feeding, it is automatic massage apparatus for the cows, etc. They cost themselves and produced milk like that. It gives not only good milk, but also better animal welfare. The new poultry is 1730 m2 and houses 45 dairy cows. The farmer has 110, but he needs a quota of 1 million litres, not 400,000 litres, that he's being allocated today. Why is the Central Party and the representative Pollestad against it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e802	Now it's like in the Center Party we're also very busy with happy cows. We are concerned that the farmers should have the opportunity to bet. But we believe that there should be a limit to how large the uses should be. It is also after this agreement, and we have some different assessments of where we are. But what we have also pointed out in our remarks as a threat to government policy is that one should open up larger quotas combined with one looking at the quota regions. We fear that we can lead to a re-channelling policy, where large parts of milk production are moved from the West to the East, where grain production in the East is replaced by grass production, and where grass production in the West is discontinued. It is a bad spiral if you have a goal of increasing Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e809	The representative Pollestad is concerned with the income of the farmers, which I too am. That's good. At the same time, the representative and the Central Party pointed out that it could have been an alternative to cooperate with the Workers' Party in this position we are now discussing. But the Workers' Party has spent the money on lowering, among other things. the price to the consumer and to save the climate with money for agriculture. So my question to the representative Pollestad is really: who would the Central Party get a majority to increase the salaries of the farmers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e814	I think that the majority of the Stortinget who would be best for Norwegian farmers if one put the party programs on top of another would be the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, SV, the Workers' Party and possibly the Left – let it be clear. Then one says that the money is spent. Yes, the Workers' Party may have used up its money, but we say we want a settlement in line with last year's settlement. It would then be a question of negotiating whether to give priority to the framework for schemes affecting revenue or other common arrangements. Then one will also see in the setting that the Senterpartie e.g. has not taken a detailed view on the proposals made by the trade unions to transform the whole of the so-called SMEL scheme into an innovation grant scheme. We have said something about the arrangement of the framework being a question of negotiation between the trade unions and the government based on the decisions taken by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e821	I agree with the representative Pollestad that agriculture is too important to hareble with. In many cases, what was important for the Left in the agricultural negotiations was that small and medium-sized applications have the possibility, but also the major uses. In 2006, the Minister of Agriculture said that each end of a use was a personal defeat. This is what Terje Riis-Johansen said. He was the first in the order of the Ministers of Agriculture of the Central Party. Farm closures have escalated, annual work has gone away in large numbers, and the number of milk producers has been reduced by 37 pst. during the last years. I agree that predictability is important, but I might also think that the representative Pollestad should have taken on board that maybe it was time to think a little bit new now, and not just look at scaled paths, as the Central Party may have done in the last eight years. Does the representative Pollestad agree with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e832	No, I strongly disagree with that. Firstly, we have an industry, described in the proposition in paragraph 3.3.4, which has had a formidable development, an enormous increase in efficiency in recent years that few other industries can point to. It's like we also knew with an agricultural minister from the Central Party, and we went into it with our eyes open, that it would be put to use. But there was no requirement that we had to like it! But it was very clear that it would be the result of the policy. I also record that this kind of statement can be made today. The rapporteur said on the TV 2 news, after the agreement had been presented, that she hoped this would contribute to several farms in Norway. Actually, I don't think there's any reason to claim that. The central party of the government contributed to the renewal of property policy. We increased the concession limits, for example: for chicken, but we did it slowly, but surely. We didn't run ideological crusades, as the government of today does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e841	SV fully agrees with the Central Party when the representative Pollestad describes that this is probably the area of society in which this government attacks hardest and most, and where politics goes in the wrong direction. I also fully agree with what he says about the fact that it sounds like a consensus in the parties. I have also registered that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party in the comments in the setting, where SV unfortunately is not included because we are not in the committee, sign up for an agreement that looks fine on the paper. But after the replications and speeches here today, I am much more in doubt about the value of those comments, when representatives from the Christian People's Party and the Left also say that it is up to the government to negotiate, and then you get to the Stortinget afterwards and negotiate there again to see what happens. What is the Central Party's assessment of exactly this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e850	I perceive that there is a great deal of real agreement between the Workers' Party and the Center Party, especially about what we have said in our decision, and the comments we agree on. Then I register that somewhere the Center Party has its comments and the Workers' Party has its comments. The Labour Party must be able to answer for its own part, but on the points we agree, I have seen it there that we agree that we should bet on small and medium-sized applications to a greater extent than today's government. We agree that the level should be at the level of last year, i.e. a level that is suitable to close the revenue gap. In the future political debate, it will be important to put clear pressure on the majority comments made by the Committee in order to make them visible and to make them concrete, and this will help the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e861	It's kind of hoped that there were 5,000 people gathered in a demonstration. I seem to remember that there were 5,000 people out here two years ago. Now we had an agricultural minister who comes with a straight message. At that time it was a quite striking Minister of Agriculture, as far as I remember. The opposition has said several times that one should deal with the assumptions of the Storing. We're dealing with Storting's assumptions, but we have completely different perceptions of what action needs to be taken. We've actually taken over the development that was under the Stoltenberg II government, where 500,000 dean went out of production, the agricultural area was reduced by 5 pst., the number of dairy farms went down, and the level of self-sufficiency also went down. In other words, there is a need for significant changes in agricultural policy. I wonder if the Center Party only believes in more of the medicine they themselves administered, which was not successful.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e870	The demonstration train two years ago we could have done without it. However, it is important to be aware that the level of income that was offered at the time was at a completely different level from that of the year’s settlement, and if one considers the history of the previous negotiations, there is no doubt that in 2012, too, a settlement would have ended up helping to ensure that income differences at least did not increase more than they should. It is quite right that the Minister of Agriculture was present both years. I think it's better with an agricultural minister who's a little disappointed at a poor settlement than one who's proud to give a poor settlement to the farmers. When one says more about the drug that doesn't work, we've pointed out that increasing grain production is very important. When the government makes a proposal that will only give 70 out of about 11,000 cereal producers an income growth, it is the very opposite of a medicine that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e879	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e882	First, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough and thorough review of the substance of the matter and the Committee's findings. Agriculture is important for today’s Norway, and agriculture will also have an important place in future Norway. Therefore, the Left will have an innovative, sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture here to land. Norwegian agriculture is essential to ensure settlement throughout the country, biodiversity, cultural landscapes and food production.Agriculture policy needs to ensure that food production is safe, environmentally friendly and long-term, and it is an overall objective for the Left to maintain a decentralised agriculture – a diverse agriculture with a varied structure of use in the interests of the environment, in the interests of other businesses such as tourism, in the interests of cultural landscapes and animal welfare. The primary wish of the left was for agricultural organisations and the state to agree on an agricultural agreement. We believe it was unfortunate that the breach came at such an early stage in the negotiations, and it is very regrettable that it was not possible for the parties to come together again. Immediate calls were made. It is a long practice for the government to promote its initial offer as a proposal for the Storting in the event of a breach of the negotiations and to adopt it without amendment. The left maintains that future settlement should follow normal practice and not be subject to negotiations in the Storting. But this year it was necessary to make changes to the Storting. In the government's offer, the government had stressed that the financial instruments should be set up in such a way as to give priority to the use that has the potential to be a high level of full-time use. The Left agrees that it is important to create framework conditions that make it possible for those who wish to exploit production capital more effectively and in this way to strengthen income opportunities to do so. However, this effort cannot and will not be at the expense of the profitability of small and medium-sized applications, especially small and medium-sized applications in less productive areas. The Agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left has reached agreement to maintain a differentiation in instruments which facilitate a varied use structure and which take into account the differences in the conditions of farming in different parts of the country. Through the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have made sure to strengthen the incomes of dairy and cereal farmers, where climate is at the heart of it. In addition, we have increased the income of sheep farmers with herds of up to 100 sheep – i.e. average use – and increased the income of farmers with suckler cows and goats. The left considers that it should be possible to be side bottoms in both Lier and Hardanger, and is therefore satisfied that the agreement facilitates an increase in the income of berry beans, vegetable beans and fruit beans. Norwegian agriculture has long traditions of sustainable management that take into account the environment, cultural landscapes and biodiversity. Developments in knowledge and instruments have helped to make activities in many areas more environmentally friendly today than 20–30 years ago. But we're not yet in the goal. In 2012, agricultural greenhouse gas emissions amounted to approximately 4.4 million CO2 equivalent. 8.5 pst. of the total Norwegian emissions. The emissions of agriculture in recent years have been somewhat reduced, and there is a trend on the left that is pleased. The regional environmental programmes cover a central part of the environmental measures and instruments of the agricultural agreement. The aim is the conservation and care of special cultural landscapes and the reduction of pollution to water and air. In the agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we ensured that this program is maintained. At the same time, we made sure to reverse some of the government's cuts in the SMEL funds. The purpose of specific environmental measures in agriculture is to preserve the natural and cultural heritage and reduce agricultural pollution. In addition, the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have committed themselves to following up the greenhouse gas reduction instruments identified in the Climate Change Strategy 2020. The greenhouse gas reduction measures described in agriculture can be grouped as follows: biogas production from manure, more efficient use of fertilisers, carbon capture and reduced mineralisation in agricultural soils, and reduced greenhouse gas emissions from the combustion of fossil sources. These measures will follow up on the Left. In addition, government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have agreed to launch an investigation into agricultural challenges in response to climate change. The study will highlight the challenges that agriculture will face in terms of changing to a warmer and more humid climate, as well as the question of how agriculture can cope with climate change. Climate action and investigation on climate challenges are what the Left will ensure that they are followed up. We'll take care of that. For the left, it's a goal of 17 pst. food production and consumption in 2020 shall be organic. For sustainable fertility in soil, enough clean water, animal protection, natural diversity and local food security, organic farming is an important alternative and complement to other agriculture. In the Agreement on agricultural settlement, the Left has therefore ensured that the provision of development measures for organic farming under the Agricultural Development Fund is increased by 10 million. kr in relation to the proposal in the State's offer. Norwegian agriculture faces challenges that we need to take seriously. Clearly, there is a need to make changes in Norwegian agricultural policy so that we can meet the challenges of profitability and not least the challenges of recruitment, which we cannot rule out. Unfortunately, there is not a new generation in line to take over all farms in the country. This is a well-known issue that the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the government parties want to focus on. We agree that an investigation on recruitment should be launched to look at how we can strengthen recruitment to Norwegian agriculture. The two-part Norwegian economy is a challenge for a number of industries and industries in Norway. The left takes the challenge seriously, including for Norwegian agriculture. Another challenge in agriculture is related to soil protection. During the period 2005–2012, it was re-disposaled at the lower edge of 115 000 decars of cultivated and arable land. Cultivated soils accounted for most of the re-disposal. The left is concerned about the high rate of disposal and, in particular, that large parts of the disposal take place in urban areas where the soil and conditions for cereal production are best. There is a need for increased attention on this issue, and the Left therefore looks forward to receiving the government's soil protection plan, as the Stortinget asked earlier in ours, and as an overall nutrition committee was behind it. For the Left, it is important that the challenges in Norwegian agriculture are met with forward-looking solutions based on knowledge and research. That is why it was important for us in the negotiations to have an impact on the preparation of a major communication on future agriculture and forestry. This will form the basis for a knowledge-based debate on a forward-looking agriculture. In this context, it is important that we modernise agriculture and facilitate those who think new. The farmer is a self-employed person with special administrative responsibility. It is important that the entrepreneurial spirit is given an important place in agriculture. The resource base of rural areas needs to be used more widely for economic development and housing, including for people with no direct connection to primary industries. There needs to be more diversity in agriculture. Local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and for looking at agricultural policies in the context of other industrial policies. Farming needs to be given fewer forms and fewer and simpler guidelines. In addition, there is a need for further investment in innovation, research and development in agriculture so that the industry can become even more forward-looking, forward-looking and innovative. The complexity of the legislation and many of the laws of agriculture may in many areas hinder the development of more flexible agriculture, which will enable those who want to invest in the industry to do so. For this reason, the Left looks forward to an analysis of agricultural simplification, which will take full account of legislation and legislation with a view to modernising it. I look forward to a continuing constructive agricultural debate here today. It deserves Norwegian farmers, and it deserves Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party, especially, and the government parties for the process that has led to what we now have on the table here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e928	We are many who are concerned about the structural profile of this year's agricultural business. Even if the Left Party and the Christian People's Party succeed in adding a little more to the smallest used, there is no doubt that the end result was that the large usage is prioritised at the expense of the small and medium-sized. For example, there will be a cut in the roughage area for the smallest used in zone 5 of 65 million. kr. In this son lies among others. Our home country, More and Romesdal. The cut happens to those who produce under 250 pieces, and there is today the fraction of usage and as much as 85 pst. of production. Does the representative, Mr Farstad, share the concerns about what could be the consequence of cutting back so much that we are at risk that much of the feed production in the districts will be cut down and thus have to be replaced by imported feed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e935	I do not accept that the agreement we have now reached does not take into account and does not strengthen the basis for the small and medium-sized uses. I would like to stress very strongly that what the Left has been on this round has contributed to the fact that in our part of the country, as the representative Bjørdal also represents, a forward-looking agriculture can be pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e940	Fruit and green bets are important from an economic point of view, but also from a public health perspective. It is a sector of which the Labour Party is busy, and in our agricultural policy platform we call for the government to come to the UK with measures for fruit and green nutrition. However, we are sceptical about supporting the proposed increase in the target price of fruit and believe that the sector should be strengthened above the budget. What does Left mean about this? Do you think it's right to increase the price consumers have to pay for fruit, or should we make it easier for this to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e947	With regard to the negotiations that have taken place in the Stortingen on the settlement and the change that we have made there, there is a significant strengthening of the fruit and vegetables sector, among other things. the fact that we have got back into having local fruit stores. I definitely believe that the agreement now on the table provides the basis for a future-oriented fruit and green sector in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e952	The left was very critical when the percentage of cheese was introduced. An important part of the year's declaration is an increase in the milk price of 15 cents. Does the representative of Farstad think that this would have been possible without a change from a centimetre to a percentage?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e957	We in the Left contributed to the fact that in the case of customs duties on cheese, we got a system that is positive for agriculture. There we had a thorough process, which should be known to most people, where we landed on a result that allows us to stand rake against agriculture in terms of the cheese toll.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e963	I record that the representative from the Left is very satisfied with what has been achieved in the negotiations. This contrasts with some of what the Left has said about agricultural policy. What is difficult to get into today's debate is what direction and dosage the Left considers to be the basis for future agricultural settlements. Is it a little less cut than the Right and Advance Party will have, but still in that direction that it is the most cut for the small and the most increased for the big, or is it the direction of the changes that the Left and the Christian People's Party got into the negotiations, namely that you should not cut for the smallest uses across the country? Which direction is it – is it the direction of the government, or is it the direction of the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e970	We in the Left have now made it clear throughout the process that we believe that modernisation measures, simplification measures, recruitment measures and a number of other areas, which are absolutely necessary for the industry, and that the industry, together with the authorities, must be made to go deeper into this. Then it must be quite clear that what we have done in this process that has been, together with the Christian People's Party and the government parties, really helps us to mitigate some of the challenges we saw, linked to the fact that it was too heavily invested in great use. There can be no doubt that we have managed to change the profile, based on what we have achieved through that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e977	One comment may well be that I think it would have been a good idea – if you are concerned with changes and modernisation in agriculture – to have a little more understanding with those who are going to run this agriculture when they are presented. But now leave it. I still can't get what it is Left thinks should be leading forward. Is it that one should now have a little less cut, but in the direction that the big ones will get more and the small ones will get less, or is it that one should ensure that the small ones get a better economy than what is in government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e984	What is quite clear – and I repeat that has also been said in public space, outside this room – is that we in the Left want new tactics in some areas. A number of investigations are now under way, which we also got into the agreement here, where we need to look at things more closely. I don't want to pre-shoot what's being done through those investigations, of course – I don't have a prerequisite for that. We have put in place significant elements related to the environment and to climate change challenges. What has come out of the agreement, I believe, is very clear. I cannot understand that there is uncertainty about it from SV's team, as it is done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e991	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e994	There went the Council of State. We in SV want to have increased Norwegian food production on Norwegian resources. Food is the world's most important product. Climate change threatens, global food supply is uncertain, and the world needs more food. Norway has to take its share of it. Therefore, there is a need for change and modernisation, but that change must go in a different direction from that proposed by the government. It's modern to produce food on your own resources, it's modern with small uses and food entrepreneurs, it's modern with clean food and animal welfare – and it can never be immature with workplaces. We must have an agriculture throughout the country, because that is how Norway is created. There must then be room for both minor use, combined use and full-time farmers. We have to protect the food soil and use the earth throughout the country. If Norwegian food is to come from its own resources and not from more power feed, we have to produce food where the earth is. Power supplies from abroad have not increased maritime supply. The peasants must have better income than the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left add. It's necessary for recruitment. In terms of usage structure, I don't think young people want a life alone in a garden. Many people want to grow the soil and have a different job next door. I think that's much better to recruit a lot of people in the future. There is a need for predictability in agriculture. Now we've had a tax policy that's going down and down, and it's very hard to understand that we're going to be able to provide some security for future investments. Grants and levies must be such as to convert into ecologically sound forms of farming, including in conventional agriculture, and to see organic farming as something far more than a niche for those who are particularly interested. If this is to succeed, one cannot at the same time stimulate more industrialisation. All niches on the market must be put into service. Together they constitute a large volume, they provide many decentralised jobs, the basis for many food entrepreneurs and a lot of exciting new food. That's what people want. The trend in other countries is stronger than in Norway. If we don't follow along, paradoxically, it can end with – and we're almost there now – that countries that don't have the same good conditions to produce even more environmentally friendly and organic, like us, go past us. It is important here to build alliances with consumers, because consumers will have such food. We in SV want to reverse the proposals on structural changes because it is the wrong direction, which takes away from small users, and because it destroys rural agriculture. Food land and use are scattered in Norway, and we cannot ignore the fact that Norway is far north and never becomes flat like Denmark, regardless of what the Minister of Agriculture thinks. Moreover, agriculture in Denmark is not particularly profitable. When the government, in addition to it, believes that cereals and potatoes are produced in the same way as plastic bags and concrete gravel, it must go without saying. I believe that the government needs a course in both geography, biology, agronomy and economics. All food earths throughout the country must be kept in claim. It stays where it is, regardless of whether someone thinks it's possible to merge it into a lot of use. If these small farms are shut down, there won't be enough land to produce the food we need. Now the government and the Minister of Agriculture have tried to push through their extensive agricultural policy on the Stortinget, and then the Stortinget has to take responsibility. When they ran – and stopped – the agricultural negotiations, SV had hoped that the majority of the Stortinget, including the Left and Christian People's Party, could have found together and put in place a better way for future agriculture than what we now see. It did not want the Left and Christian People's Party, and it regrets SV. The first time the government took the boot test, and the government is still allowed to say that they should be free to negotiate what they want to negotiate – and then you get to the Stortinget afterwards and correct the worst mistakes – it means that you don't take such big steps, but many steps in the wrong direction for every agricultural settlement that goes. I would like to address the proposals that SV has made in the Chamber, because unfortunately we are not in the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1015	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1020	The representative, Andersen, said that there should be room for small use and to have a job next door. We fully agree with that. And she needs to be aware that small farms, livestock farming, receive four support per cow, compared to the large ones, so there are still strong instruments in Norwegian agricultural policy. What I'm asking is whether the representative Andersen has actually read the results of his own policy. There is no doubt that the issue of relocation, including: empty use is the largest where there is no alternative labour market. It is precisely in those areas where there is no alternative job it is important to create opportunities for those who will create a full-time employment in agriculture. That's where the results of the red-green policy have turned out to be the most serious. I just want to ask Karin Andersen if she really believes that more of the medicine that has proved not to work is the right medicine for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1029	At least I'm sure that a policy that eliminates pension schemes, cuts the subsidy for many of the smallest uses, has a worse economy in agriculture, in total, than the previous government had, will escalate the spending very strongly. SV has presented a separate proposal today where, among other things: strengthens the grain economy, because it is important to strengthen the large uses where it is possible to grow cereals in the country, because we need to raise grain production in Norway. So I think the representative of Gundersen has to look a little at the proposals that SV has actually made, and see that it has been a very strong centralization and a delocalization and termination of use is no argument for promoting a policy that makes it go twice or triple as fast as today. This will mean that we are at risk of not being able to increase food production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1036	I guess I just take that as a sign that you have no answer to the challenges you have left behind. Then we're on the proposal list that's there, because it's a bit of a sandwich list. Karin Andersen has been involved in this in several line changes that you should not give the government the same freedom again, but if you look at this list of proposals, it is almost like saying that you should not give any freedom at all. And the parties to the agricultural settlement are deprived of almost all freedom to negotiate. I have rarely seen a list of proposals that more effectively breaks down the negotiating institute in agriculture than the proposals that are now there from SV. On the basis of that list of proposals, there is reason to ask whether SV actually respects the negotiating institute and that there should be parties which agree as far as possible on the content of an agricultural agreement in advance and that the settlement of the year, as seen, is an exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1043	Yes, I feel quite confident about that, because all the proposals that are on our list have been seen by representatives from the trade unions, which are part of the wishes that the trade unions have had in a debate. So I don't think this, which is SV's starting point, would cause some problems in a negotiation situation. On the contrary, this would be to meet very many of the requirements that the trade unions have had and that the government of Gundersen has rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1049	All parties want the most Norwegian-produced food – the question is, how are we going to get this? If we look at this historically, this has been a goal for at least 50 years, and the level of self-sufficiency is just going down. Under the red-green regime from 2005 to 2013, self-sufficiency went from 52 pst. to 46 pst. So my question to SV is, how does SV think we're going to get this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1054	I tried to say a little about it in my post, because it's about taking care of agriculture throughout the country. You also have to take care of the small ones, because if we are to get the total volume, we have to have all the food in production. Then we have to make sure that there are incomes in agriculture, so that young people will also continue, and that those who serve too poorly, have so much income that they can imagine to continue. So we have to strengthen the agricultural economy – and not weaken it, as the Right has shown that they want, with the proposal that the government tried to negotiate, which it broke, and which they had to come to the Storing to get the mountain, in a way, through the majority here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1059	The representative, Andersen, stated that Norwegian food production should be increased and that agricultural policy should be drawn in a different direction from that of this government. Then I just want to ask the question whether SV wants to remove those grant schemes that do not go directly to food production. After all, Karin Andersen has been concerned with the global food situation connected to climate change, and from that point of view, it would be thought that it would be desirable to turn the funds into direct food production. Another question is whether SV supports the Agricultural Policy Platform of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1066	First, I would like to say that SV has its own agricultural policy, but we are probably much closer to the Workers' Party than the Progress Party – I don't think that's a surprise. One of the things that is and has been the problem is that end-use and agricultural land are going out of production, but the second is that we rely more and more of food production on imported power supplies. Therefore – if you look at our arrangement – we want a twist there, so that we use less imports of power feed and produce more of the feed seam. For this reason, it is so important that cereals in Norway are used for cereals — that they do not build up large quantities of use, for example. milk production in central areas dependent both on the spread area and on feed, because transporting both feed and manure far from both roads could be too difficult and the use of areas for the production of feed that should be used for cereals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1073	I'm not going to repeat the first line, even if I didn't get an answer to it, because I'm afraid I'm actually getting the same answer again. What has been interesting about this agricultural settlement is that there have been many farmers in the media who have supported the conversion of the government. And as the NRK says, they've been in contact with a lot of farmers who don't want to stand up in the public room, simply because they don't want to be exposed to the burden of disagreeing with their organization. One who has stood up is Odd Ronald Nilsen in Troms. He is a member of the Balsfjord Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team, and he is head of the Balsfjord Workers' Party. He fully supports the government in the way you transform it now. There are many other farmers who also do it. Does SV listen to all the farmers who are now standing up and agree with the government's agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1082	I've registered that there are people who do it, but the big, big majority don't do it. If we're going to ensure increased food production, I think we're going to have to listen to the large majority, who think this is going in the wrong direction. I have also heard some of these that support some of the changes today, because they are getting big, but when they are confronted with the fact that the government, in particular the Progress Party, wants to cut the subsidies, they will be left with large investments on a large scale, and so the subsidies will be cut, and then it will not be possible for these major uses to continue. So there's a context here that the government doesn't tell, that the Progress Party doesn't tell, and that, on the other hand, is that the Advance Party has a genuine desire for us to spend less money on agriculture, and that agriculture should receive less support. And the major uses will also depend on support – that's because they get support, they can build up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1089	The representative Andersen and SV have eight years of government experience. I'm absolutely sure that's an important experience. Based on Andersen's different lines here in this debate today, I hear that she is concerned about who is taking the lead in next year's agricultural settlement. And after hearing the comments of the representative, I am absolutely sure that, if you had had room in the committee, SV could have been involved in what an overall committee says: ‘The Committee considers it essential that the agricultural policy pursued provides safe and safe food, agriculture throughout the country, increased value creation and a sustainable industry.’ I am absolutely sure that the comment had SV boarded! But my question is, with the experience of the representative, is it not the government that is responsible for the negotiating institute?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1099	Yes, I am absolutely sure that we could be involved in those comments, but it is therefore proposals and decisions that apply. The problem now is that the Christian People's Party and the Left support a government that goes very strongly and hard in the wrong direction, and the Christian People's Party and the Left have chosen a strategy in which they mitigate the worst effects of this, but still support the government and the direction. That's what SV has criticized and said that we disagree with. For there is another majority in the Great Britain that had stood for a better policy, which had been much closer to the Christian People's Party also really believes, and which it would have been possible to use in this matter if the Christian People's Party and the Left had chosen it. I'll record that they don't choose. That's why I'm concerned about how the Christian People's Party's influence is now going to be in front of the negotiations that are coming, probably before the Stortinget has dealt with a big message that could have said something binding about the direction of the negotiations that the government is going to conduct and that it has shown at this settlement that it will lead in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1104	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1107	Food production is an industrial activity and is to be treated as an industrial activity. However, food production is the most important industrial activity in a society, and it is important far beyond being pure business, important for politics, important for housing, important for cultural landscapes, important for culture and important for the environment. Agricultural policy and the agricultural policy debate must reflect that this is different from other industrial policy sectors. In 30 years, the agricultural share of the state budget has fallen from about 5 pst. to 1.3 p.m., and we have a corresponding decline in food's share of the private economy. It is a back ground for this debate that we should remember. It is a wrong direction in view of the priority of food production as a societal issue. In any case, it is good that the government's proposal puts the debate on agriculture at the forefront of what has been done for many years, and that one has provoked what is really a great deal, which, to a greater extent than in many years, underlines the need for what we, the Greens, will sum up as a greener agricultural policy. Of course, it is also good that the government sticks to the usual objectives of agriculture, such as recruitment, variation, housing, etc. But it is important to note, as many people have pointed out in different ways, that the main key keyword of the case-rapporteur is less area focus and more production focus. It's the area that produces food – in all countries. In Norway, the area known to be distributed in such a way as to require units of many sizes, not least many small units, in order to exploit that area. Of course, in Norway a lot of meat can be produced in even larger operational buildings based on even more imports of basic products. However, this is becoming less and less related to Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian self-sufficiency. It is in itself good to produce chicken meat in a very efficient way in an operational building located somewhere in the country, but it is not Norwegian food production – it is not Norwegian agriculture. We have to start separating the two factors. A policy that further reinforces a development from the use of Norwegian land and from the use of imported basic products can not possibly strengthen Norwegian agriculture in the long term and cannot possibly strengthen Norwegian self-sufficiency in the long term. Of course, it is not the case that the current government is solely responsible for pursuing such a policy. We all know about wear and tear, etc., which has been going on for many decades, but this is after all the sunmarks a strengthening of such a policy. The Green Party therefore believes that agriculture needs to be strengthened as a sector of society, and we must aim to build up an agriculture that provides many jobs, good income, good resource management and good animal welfare within the framework of good environmental management and a proper climate policy. This we know that an overwhelming part of the population wants. People aren't primarily looking for even cheaper food. The proposal presented today by the Green Party, which is not on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, therefore sets out a long-term course for a more greener direction of agriculture. In the short term, our framework will help to close the income gap, increase the grain price and increase the area subsidies. We're taking a lot out through price increases, 610 million. UKL 846 million in the long term. in transfers. In the long term, it's a price, not a subsidy, that's going to keep agriculture alive, but we need a long-term strategy to get to it. Then I will address the Greens' proposals to the Environment Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1124	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1130	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, raises an interesting issue and debate, whether agricultural policy should focus on increased production, or whether agricultural policy should focus on increased areas and land conservation. Some interesting research has also been carried out on agricultural land in terms of the difference between owning land and renting land. There are things that indicate that clay soil produces only 60 pst. of what owned soil does, i.e. in terms of food production. This may be because when you rent the land, you don't use energy and resources on good agronomy. In the extension of what Rasmus Hansson said in his speech on preserving the land, does he see that doing something with the legislation so that it can be easier to own the land can improve the agronomy, and that in this way we can also increase production in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1135	The Green Party has no ideological relation to the difference between owning and renting, but we recognize, of course, what is probably a fact, that people invest more in what they own than what they rent. Of course, we are committed to seeing it as one of several possible means of ensuring high production, which we obviously are not opposed to, but it should be based on an area focus in Norwegian agriculture. Then we will see to what extent it is a more important and appropriate instrument than other instruments that we have so far focused on in the agricultural policy we are promoting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1140	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1143	The agricultural settlement we are debating today is a good solution for the industry. This is the start of a necessary forward-looking change in the course that can ensure a trend in agriculture that responds to the challenges we face, with the need for: increased food production to ensure recruitment for agriculture throughout the country During the red-green government, production stagnated, and the degree of self-sufficiency was reduced. Imports of agricultural products into Norway have more than doubled in the last 10 years and amounted to 47.3 billion. kr in 2013. We have under-covering of beef and sheep meat, which is really something we can produce in this country. In the last eight years, imports of sheep and lamb increased by 10 pst. Subsidies increased, protection increased, prices increased and imports increased. The agricultural settlement agreed between the four cooperation parties responds to the challenges facing Norwegian agriculture: First of all, we're making provision for increased food production. Effective food production is the main task of agriculture. Then we have to design the tools so that they respond to it. We must give priority. We do that by facilitating the growth of uses, by raising limits that are intended to limit production. In this way, the production equipment can also be used more efficiently. It's for the good of everyone. We don't help the smallest by limiting the big ones and the ones that will grow. We're moving funds from counting animals and land to production. And we're doing better for those who want to bet for the full, use that has the resources to be full-time. Much of the potential for production lies there, on use where the farmer is present all the time, in order to optimise operations and agronomy. And it's fair that they get a real economic result. Secondly, the government's original offer gave farmers the same income development as other groups, and we were willing to go further in negotiations. Following the agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party on agricultural settlements, agriculture is growing more strongly than other groups – well over 5 pst. average. I have to remind you that under the Labour Party Governments and the Bondevik Governments, the rate of growth was similar to that of other groups, largely the end result of the negotiations, because the rate of growth is equal to growth. Thirdly, farming can help ensure recruitment because it gives young people greater opportunities to develop the use than their mother and grandfather had. We show that we are serious about making it economically interesting to do full-time use for young people who want to be self-employed, with an emphasis on self-employment. Fourthly, we are implementing the biggest simplification measures in the history of the agricultural agreement. Many teams have been wanted for a number of years. But it's been done very little. We are implementing 26 major and minor simplifications – never before – simplifications for industry and management, less bureaucracy and a step towards a more transparent instrument system. That means that something has to be selected away. It has some consequences in conversion, but it is necessary in the transition from something wrong to something right – from something good to something better. Fifthly, we are going to have agriculture across the country with small and large uses, and it requires differentiated instruments. In the debate on this settlement, it has been overfocused on changes and underfocused on what has changed from time to time. Furthermore, small dairy farms in the districts will receive about four times as much budget support per cow as large dairy farms in central areas. District grants and cargo arrangements are not affected. We're still going to have agriculture all over the country. And this settlement prioritizes increased production, because it's the main task. I am pleased that the government parties have reached agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on a good agricultural settlement. For the government, the main thing has been that the main profile is fixed. We prioritise increased efficiency of production, increased space for action, full-time use, simplification and recruitment. The treatment of the Storting also provides a clear majority basis for future agricultural settlements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1180	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1183	Many selections and groups are now working on key issues of Norwegian agricultural policy, and as is evident from the comments made today, at least a majority of the representatives in this room believe that future settlements need to better anchor their offer. I guess the Council of State has noticed that. At the same time, there is a big message about agricultural policy. After all, it is a good tool to anchor their reforms in the staging room. My question to the Council of State is therefore: When it is assumed that this message will come to the Stortinget, and will such a message mean that reform proposals are being put on hold for a comprehensive approach to the agricultural policy of the Stortinget, which I think is absolutely necessary, have been made in connection with the Storing Message?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1190	When it comes to groping messages, I think that the representative Storberget is well aware of how they develop, and that it would take some time for a thing to put them before Stortinget. So I can't say here and now right now, but that it will take more than until the next agricultural settlement, I'm pretty sure. Then there are many reform proposals that it is important to implement in agriculture. Among other things, we need to: set up several groups to look forward to important actions, including: simplification. Of course, when I'm going to continue working on the farm business for next year, I want to draw attention to the things in this farm business, and the signals that have been sent there, and make the changes that I believe will be possible within that framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1199	Governments state that agriculture needs to become less dependent on subsidies and to raise a greater share of market revenue. How does this relate to choosing to use the grants to strengthen the largest uses, which initially have the highest income, both absolute and measured in dollars per year, and which have the greatest opportunity to increase market revenue? How should this make agriculture less dependent on subsidies, when it also leads to an increase in subsidies per use?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1204	I believe that the main uses have been treated unfairly for many years. They have been given much less proportionately than the smaller ones. I believe it is high time to give higher priority to those who produce a lot of food. Now I've traveled and visited many farmers in the months I've been the Council of State, and what's at least hit me, and the feedback, is that many of the big ones, who get far less subsidies than the small ones, have challenges with the investments made. Here are farmers who have invested in both 20 and 30 million. kr. In order for us to get more people to invest a lot of money in the future, we're totally dependent on them being able to make money. I think it was unfair the way the system was, for example. that you could receive support for up to 50 cows, but if you had 51 and more, you did not receive support for them. There is also a type of legislation that facilitates creativity in applying for grants and makes bureaucracy more extensive than it needs to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1211	The Christian People's Party is pleased that there will be an agricultural and forest report. Then we can have even more debate – that's what the Council of State is happy about, we know that. Governments are aware that the Christian People's Party is committed to a holistic approach to agricultural and forestry policy, both in terms of income, expenditure, property taxes, innovation and research. The Council of State said in its speech that we should have agriculture throughout the country, increased recruitment and increased food production. This is an overall big deal agreed on, and so we've set important pillars. But in the cooperation agreement that has been concluded here at Stortinget, we have also raised three investigations: simplification, recruitment and the environment and climate. Then we know that there is a separate investigation about the market regulation regimes. We know that there is something about property policy. My question then is: Will these be things and characteristics that we will see again in an agricultural and forest message?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1220	It is clearly important for me to follow up the areas in which the majority of the Biggest is very concerned. Both the environment, recruitment and simplification are areas I myself am also concerned with, so that when we are going to present a new big business message, it is natural that we are shifting towards the proposals that come in connection with these groups. Now I hope that we will be able to speed up the implementation of some of the measures, if they are good, and if they can be implemented quickly, so I believe that we need to find good solutions. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for the constructive cooperation we had in the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1230	The representative of the Progress Party Morten Ørsal Johansen said the following to the NRK: ‘The farmers’ complaints show that we have done something right.’ One of the major losers in the country's agricultural offer is the cereal producers. Of over 11,000 cereal producers, only 70 come out with zero or better. The great majority, 99,4 p.m., is losing on the government's offer. Then my question is: does the Council of State think that the country's original offer to the grain producers was suitable for increasing Norwegian grain production?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1242	Now it is not the case that only the subsidies given to the production of cereals determine the income earned by the industry. It also depends very much on which crops a thing to get into in a year, and this year it looks improperly good, which I'm very pleased with. Then it's like this government chose to give priority. We chose to prioritize livestock production because it is the rootstock of rural agriculture. Milk, cattle production, lambs and sheep are the rootstock of district production. Then it was important for us to pursue a policy that made sure that the feed prices did not increase. That's why we increased cereal prices slightly, but we didn't increase them any more, precisely because of the power feed price. Then we also see that the result of this is that our offer to farmers was better for both pig producers and chicken producers. They got better out of it with our offer than with the demands of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1251	Then it is natural to follow up and ask what the Council of State will do to improve the agronomy of grain production.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1256	Now it's 100 million. DKr, e.g. in ditch subsidies, which are very important for that industry. In addition, it is important that we have good agronomists, and we constantly focus on transferring new instruments in agriculture. Then you have to find new research results, etc. which helps to raise production, whether it is cereals or other things. The settlement that exists between the four bourgeois parties, I believe, provides a good starting point for the cereal farmers to get it well this year, also in the light of the fact that it seems that the Lord of Spring is in favour of giving a good crop year. At least it looks that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1263	It is good that the council realizes that there are some other forces responsible for the weather than a sail, and that she is luckier with being than the red-green government was. But it is serious when Norwegian grain production has sunk as much as it has. It is true that it depends on many things, but it also depends on the economy, and not least it depends on a policy that ensures, as the Council of State says, an increase in Norwegian food production. But then that food production has to be done on Norwegian resources. One of the problems of the government is that a threat to livestock farming is also a threat to large productions in areas that do not have feed, because they produce cereals on those areas today. You also don't have a spread area for the fertiliser you're going to have. So how can the government ensure this? And when the Council of State says more Norwegian food production, does that mean less imports of power feed into Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1272	We'll probably also be dependent on importing power feed, for example. Soya, which we today produce very little, so to speak, in Norway. But it's a fact that we produce 80 pst. of the feed itself, grass and cereals included. I've gone in and looked at the use of power feed, and what's interesting is that power feed is the largest in the West and North Norway. In those areas where the maximum density of livestock, which is Rogaland, Trondelag and Østfold, is lower than that of these areas. So there's no direct connection between large use, high stocking density and the use of power feed. We also have a lot of research projects that are interesting in this lease, among other things. Foods of Norway, and others, looking at the use of seaweed to replace imported protein. A lot will happen in the years to come, I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1281	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1284	The main societal task of Norwegian agriculture is to ensure sufficient, safe and varied food of good quality. However, agriculture also contributes to settlement and business life across the country, environmental goods, such as the conservation of biodiversity and cultural landscapes, and the function of forest and soil as carbon stocks. Agriculture provides living communities, work for local carpenters, plumbers and electricians, income to the local store and glowed with volunteering. Agriculture contributes to the common good. The working party will facilitate the use of all agricultural resources and exploit the opportunities to increase food production and Norwegian self-sufficiency. In a world of growing population, this is a national responsibility, of which most nations are concerned. The country’s agricultural supply is not in line with the objectives of increased food production, increased self-sufficiency, agriculture throughout the country, varied usage structure, increased income for agricultural actors and better organisation for recruitment. I come from a powerful agricultural region, Trøndelag. In Nord-Trøndelag they constitute less than 3 pst. of the population, but our farmers account for more than 11 pst. of agricultural food production. Milk production is the main mode of farming in stock layers and is the most remote of the different forms of operation, both in value creation and in the case of employment. Every five northern clusters live on a farm, and the ringing effects of agriculture are high. In some municipalities, agriculture stands up to 40 pst. of employment. In Trøndelag, there are both large and small uses, but even the biggest in us will have challenges of growing wisely and economically when the bulk of the population dramatically raises the chords per dairy. The government's offer in the agricultural settlement would hardly have improved the income base of a single farmer in the Nord-Trøndelag. Now the settlement is getting a little bit better, with the addition of the Left and Christian People's Party. However, there is still a relatively poor settlement for many North African farmers. The Christian People's Party has probably been the most obvious in agricultural policy. When we hear the arguments and guarantees of the Christian People's Party for agricultural policy, and their heavy reason for, among other things, not to go into government, it is wondered why the door that stood on fire was not used to get a broad majority to secure the objectives and instruments of agriculture desired by the majority of the population. Agriculture is a capital-intensive industry that binds significant capital per job. The combination of high profitability, high capital adequacy and the need for long-term investment makes the situation challenging for many farmers. An industry with this challenge picture depends on a certain predictability of the framework conditions. Here too many changes are proposed too quickly. As a former representative of the Nord-Trøndelag Jon Leirfall said, "One should be careful to tear down fences before asking why they were set up." Farms tend the Norwegian landscape, the beautiful scenes around us. The well-used lines in our valleys are good to watch. Regrown agricultural land and pasture will neither be taken from us nor attract tourists. Our rural areas must be inhabited and socially alive and the country in good use and in good care for Norway to continue to be Norway – the Norway in which we are happy, for which we have celebrated the Constitution, and for which a growing tourist industry will continue to exist. What we have to pay for a good agricultural team and for a long-term, clean and competent agricultural industry is an insurance premium worth paying. The country’s supply is not in line with the objectives of increased food production, increased self-sufficiency, agriculture throughout the country, varied usage structure, increased income for agricultural actors and better organisation for recruitment. Both the size of the settlement and the device of the offer. It will change what we know about Norway, and as Norwegians want – with Norwegian raw materials produced on an efficient and resilient farm, and a beautiful cultural landscape. The Labour Party is concerned about the ideological free-lip community of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1305	Yesterday I was in Hordaland, in a beautiful Women's House, one of our biggest, most important and good agricultural municipalities in Hordaland. Then I was visiting a young farmer – he was well past 30, and it's young, look at me! He had labored for many, many years under the red-green with being allowed to create more food soil. He had a land area that the state had created, a protected landscape area. It's amazing that it's supposed to be that when young people want to go into the industry -- and even create and create more food -- they become a barrier to it. It is not surprising that the average age of farmers has risen — from 48 to 50 years old — when young people are only to meet twigs when they try to create things within agriculture. After I visited him, I was visiting a typical Western farmer. He drifted a combination use with a little milk and with a lot more sheep. He had a kind of use that made him depend on having good quality if he was to get a pretty good economy on the gardening business say. He had therefore chosen a type of cow that gave a high price to the milk and a good price to the meat, he said. He was enthusiastic about this government and what the Storting here has done. We've got a new quality seal on lambs. So it greatly strengthened his gardening, as he was running in the West. So there's a lot of positivity that also belongs out among farmers in connection with that we've got a new government. I still think there's a lot of criticism coming out here today, but I want to remind you that it wasn't just under the red-green government either. The agricultural area falls drastically — the 500,000-decar case. The grain area has been reduced by 11 pst. We imported half a million tonnes of feed grain and produced one million tonnes of feed grain itself. Also mentioned here is a reduction in self-sufficiency from over 50 pst. to something over 40 pst. So I hear Karin Andersen repeatedly mention this that Norwegian agricultural resources are important. But I want to remind Karin Andersen that in Report. Paragraph 9 for 2011–2012 states: ‘Feed grains are a main constituent of feed for use in power that can be produced in Norway.’» So it wasn't necessary when the Senterpartet and SV put in government, that this was the most important ingredient in our feed production. When they followed such a policy, the grain area fell by 11 pst., there was an increase in feed grain imports, and there was less and less grass production. As a result, plant production has been reduced by 7,5 pst. What has happened to wages and what is actually also in this big message is the consequence of this policy. It says: ‘The data suggests that roughage production is being extended and livestock production is being intensified, with increased use of co-feed.’ This was the policy when the Senterpartiet and SV put in government. Not enough, but there were major structural changes in Norwegian agriculture when they were red-green set and steered. The number of agricultural holdings has been reduced by 33 pst. during the period. It is also stated in this Storing Message, Meld. St. 9 for 2011-2012: ‘An increasing proportion is located in Rogaland, in the East and in Trøndelag.’ The rental land is increasing from 38 to 43 p.m., and 18 000 annual works disappeared from agriculture. Many, many uses have been lost – some 10,000 use have been lost. The number of uses with milk production has been reduced by 37 pst. This has gone beyond the West. We can read in Meld. St. 9: ‘The greatest change is the increase in the production of sheepmeat and lamb meat in Rogaland, at the expense of the rest of the West.’ So there was a planned policy that the red-greens led, which had negative consequences for us in the West. It also says: ‘The number of suckler cows has increased in particular in the east.’ And on the other hand, ‘Land development is weakest in the West’. All of this is stated in the Report. St. 9. This was the policy of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Swedish Government – significant changes and the reduction of Norwegian food production also in our districts. Nevertheless, we can see in the comments on the subject we are dealing with today: «The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party and the Centre are concerned about the structural profile of the agricultural settlement of the year.» Are you out of time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1369	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1372	I have lots left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1378	It's going to be possible to draw it one more time if you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1381	Thank you, I can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1386	I can take over from the representative Trellevik, because we are politically on the same track in this and many other matters. There are many who want changes in agricultural policy and who want simplification. To date, no one has been willing to accept the political burden it entails. Finally, we've got a government council and a government that dares to grab some grip — some grips that make it a lot of noise. But once this has settled, and you have gradually begun to reap the prize, I am sure that there are many who will benefit from it, including political opponents today. Any conversion and any change brings pain. It may cause more pain for someone than it does for others. This has been seen in all industries that have needed to make changes and changes. It also happens in this case. I am pleased that this government and the majority of people want to use the whole country, that they want to take stronger steps to ensure recruitment and do what is necessary to increase food production. So, of course, there's someone who doesn't share exactly those desires, but now it gets to be. What's been interesting about these negotiations has been in many ways the noise that's been out of this room, especially through the Bond Team and Norwegian Bond and Small Farmers' Teams. But I will also bring forward those who actually have to stand up in the media, members of these organizations and those who work in the industry, who agree with the change that is being made. Trond Kristian Refve in Rogaland is one of those who have stood up. He has said that there are too many hobbies who are farmers simply to receive subsidies from the state. He also says that there is a lot to get from government grants, even if you do not contribute to food production. He also comes with more descriptions of today's system. Perhaps the most interesting thing about this case that the NRK made is that the NRK says they've been in contact with a number of farmers who say they support several of the changes that Listhaug brings up in this year's settlement, but they don't want to face the criticism of today's system. The reason is simple, and as referred to in an interview: – I don’t want to raise other farmers, it can punish itself since, says a farmer to the NRK Süd-Trøndelag. It tells us a little about the way the organisations have run this case in connection with the settlement of the year. I think the organizations had been much better served to be more humble and listen to all the members of the industry. It would also not have hurt if others in this room had done the same thing. North Norway has been promoted as one of the areas in which fear can be affected by the transformation of the government. Then I'll bring out farmer Odd Ronald Nilsen, who thinks farming is sensible. He makes it clear that he's saying it as a private person. When he's not a private person, he's a farmer in Balsfjord municipality in Troms. He is a member of Inner Balsfjord Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team, and he is the head of the Balsfjord Workers' Party. This is perhaps a person you should have listened to a little bit more, because he is – as he says – running a food production to meet the future. I think that's a good starting point to take with me. I'm very pleased with the simplification it's added up to in this settlement. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank both the Left and the Christian People's Party for having acted intently in the negotiations. We've got it all, mostly. There might be some things we might want to go a little bit further, but you'll get to the next crossroads. Finally, I noticed that Knut Storberget thought he was directing agricultural policy from his office. I think there are a lot of people who are happy that Knut Storberget doesn't control anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1407	It is safe to say that this kind of attention has never been given to an agricultural settlement before. It can also be added that agriculture has never had as much support in the population as it is now. It may not be so strange when you look at the government's handling of the matter. These are the major structural changes that have ever been proposed in a single agricultural settlement. In my view, the government has also failed to show through the management that they have taken on board the fact that there is a different majority in the size of the agricultural policy than it emerged from the offer. The government indicates that a distinction will be made between agricultural policy and rural policy. The Labour Party believes that agricultural policy and rural policy belong together, and does not support the government's view on this. I would like to commend the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have contributed to bringing the settlement in the right direction. I must say I had hoped that one had reached further, this from what they themselves expressed in the election campaign: that agriculture was important to them. They could achieve more if they had applied for another majority. The Labour Party presented the Green Growth Strategy in April. It forms the basis of our policies, and during this process we will invite further dialogue to implement the strategy. In line with the industry, I also ask questions about whether the government has conducted real negotiations, as it turned out to be more than 250 million. kr more at disposal. If you take the negotiating institute seriously, these should be 250 million. have been offered to the parties, not only to the cooperation parties after the infringement. The plural comments to which the representative Knut Storberget referred suggest that we now have an agricultural policy on the right track in the future. I expect the government to do that, as predictability is important for industry and for further recruitment. What worries me most about this year's settlement is the structure profile. Subsidies are directed more towards centralisation and greater use — which will also affect small and medium-sized rural uses — and the rural land resources are not used for food production to give us an agricultural farm across the country based on Norwegian resources. I even come from Agder, one of several districts that come out poorly, and where the average usage, as referred to in 24 cows, is actually a great use. In Agder and elsewhere in District Norway, structuralisation has been achieved over the course of the year, and the limits of taking out the structural benefits have almost been achieved. We have to take over the Norwegian geography. The driving distance for retrieving feed and operating areas has now become so large that it is no longer profitable. In addition, it's negative for the climate. Grain production is a support of Norwegian agricultural policy. I am pleased that the negotiations with the cooperation parties have corrected some of the bias, but it should have been an even greater escalation. I am also surprised that one has kept grain production in District Norway, zone 5 to zone 7, outside. 1 181 uses with a total of 152 000 dekars will not receive this increased area grant. The government today also boasts of the 27 simplification and improvement measures it implements. I don't think the industry experiences it that way. A very large part of the government's proposals are schemes relating to grants that disappear. There's not much simplification for the agricultural actors, I think. Finally, I am pleased that the government parties do not have a majority for the dramatic cuts they faced in opposition, and that the majority of the majority of the population has now given clear leadership to future agricultural policy. This has contributed positively to the poor handling of the government. Let's look ahead and help raise one of the country's most important industries and give Norwegian food production with agriculture and the food industry the attention and recognition it deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1430	Initially, I must be allowed to repeat to the representative of Omland that it is actually such that the Council of State, Listhaug, has a significantly greater support for the population than any of the red-green agricultural ministers we have had in the last eight years. In fact, statistics can be used in many ways, and agricultural policy, although not always heard, is a matter of concern to the whole population. I have the pleasure of presenting a whole other matter with much, much greater consensus. I will present the position of the Industry Committee for adoption in Prop. 108 S for 2013–2014 on the reindeer management agreement. Negotiations on the reindeer management agreement for 2014-2015 were initiated on 6 January 2014. The parties reached an agreement on a new agreement at the final negotiating meeting on 18 February. The Agreement shall apply for the period from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015. The framework for the 2014/2015 Repurchase Agreement is 111.5 million. kr. This is an increase of 2 million. kr compared to the current agreement after the adopted budget for 2014. The negotiations on the reindeer management agreement have been carried out in line with the government platform and the cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party. Furthermore, the negotiations are based on the Storting's treatment of last year's reindeer contracts and budget proposals, as well as the situation facing the reindeer industry today. The main objective of the 2014/2015 Repurchase Agreement is to contribute to the development of the repurchase industry as a rational, market-oriented industry that is sustainable in the long term. It has been important to maintain the broad lines of the current grant system, where the direct grants relate to the value of what is produced. The main gravity of the reindeer operation, about 70 p.m., takes place in Finland. The purity in Norway is now approximately the same. 250,000 animals in spring flocks, i.e. Before we get calving. Meat production is about 2000 tonnes per year. The challenges of sanitation are many and complex. In parts of Finnmark, there are still challenges in the relationship between grazing pressure and grazing basis. Therefore, it is important in the management of reindeer management to be aware that the challenges are different between grazing areas and that within individual areas there can also be considerable variation. In the other grazing areas, the challenges are particularly linked to the loss of pure predatory game and other causes of loss, as well as to the safeguarding of the areas in order to maintain the current traditional operation. In all areas it is a challenge to increase the value creation of reindeer management. It is a pleasure to present the opinion of a unanimous committee expressing satisfaction at the agreement between the parties. The Committee also fully supports the continuation of efforts by the government to facilitate an ecologically sustainable industry and the establishment of rules of use for common grazing areas in this context. It is an important point that the reindeer management law and the reindeer management agreement complement each other and draw in the same direction. The Purification Act requires the industry to operate both ecologically, economically and culturally sustainable. Here, there's an obvious danger that you can operate with intersecting targets. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that it is turning the offer and strengthening the mechanisms that lead to higher slaughter volumes, thereby increasing the industry towards ecological sustainability. The Committee supports the Government when it warns that it will provide for a reduction in the payments of wild game replacements in cases where the performers do not comply with the rules of the Redeployment Act on upper reindeer numbers. It is important to point out that this is rooted in a broad political consensus in the Storting in recent years. Finally, this is the way that reindeer management is in a unique situation. The potential for demand is much greater than the potential for production. In this, there are great opportunities for increased value creation. The Committee therefore agrees with the government that it is central to reindeer management making use of the potential for value creation. A modern reindeer industry requires the industry to have knowledge of ecological sustainability and to have good market competence. This year's reindeer management agreement reinforces the arrangements for the practitioners who will take the industry in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1461	The Agriculture Agreement sets important framework conditions for both agriculture and the food industry. Thus, it is an important framework condition for how our country should look, with housing and opportunities for growth everywhere. As a result, agricultural policy is also a very important issue of value. I record that there is a broad disintegration around having a living agriculture and food production throughout the country. It is in stark contrast to the low upturn that is about the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, even though the previous speakers tried to give the impression of something else. The working party is committed to ensuring good and predictable framework conditions for Norwegian food production. Let me therefore, at the outset, join in the criticism of our agricultural policy spokesman Knut Storberget. The process of the year's agricultural settlement has been unforeseeable and has been marked by a great deal of unrest, and I notice that there is also a question on the part of the farmers' organisations as to whether there have been any real negotiations at all. I think that is very unfortunate, and there is also something strange, in the light of the emphasis of the Right Party and the Advance Party on predictability for the companies while they were in opposition. We can now conclude that the objective of predictability obviously does not apply to the food industry and agriculture. It's a perfectly honest thing to disagree about instruments and the way forward, but agriculture and neighboring industries have to meet with more respect than we've seen in ours. The Labour Party believes that we must call about the agricultural negotiations. Then we have to avoid that what happened in ours is happening again. I notice that both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left state that the government in future settlement must be based on the Stortingen's assumptions for agricultural policy. We must expect the Minister of Agriculture to take note of this. The Christian People's Party and the Left managed to move the scheme somewhat, but it is also worth stressing that they had a better alternative that they chose not to use. I note that the cooperation parties did not have the ability to adjust the major structural changes to which the agreement provides. We believe that the profile of the agreement will affect small and medium-sized applications and combined use across the country, and that is something that concerns us. But also among some major users, I note a concern that structural changes are taking place too quickly, and that they will thus increase price pressure, not least on soil in those areas where strong agricultural clusters are present. In the Agricultural Policy Platform of the Labour Party, Green Growth, which we presented in April, we emphasise the importance of ensuring increased food production on Norwegian resources. Then the whole country must be put into service. We therefore want to maximise the use of the overall production base and to ensure that suitable areas across the country can be used – because it is long-term and diverse, our country. The food industry needs to be guaranteed competitive and predictable framework conditions in such a way that we also have an overall value chain for food in the future. Let me do a home example. Now that summer comes, many of us are going to kiss us with strawberries, and it's becoming increasingly popular to eat vanilla honeymoon from Tana to Norwegian berries. There is a corner stone farm in Tana, and despite the fact that the dairy cows in Tana are among the most productive in the whole country, there is a need for more milk and more cows for that production. Then you also have to have an agreement at the bottom that facilitates it. Through a living agriculture and food production across the country, we will ensure that the industry has access to high-quality Norwegian raw materials. We share the industry's concern that this year's settlement will reinforce small-scale constraints on farming in more marginal areas. It will make it more difficult to achieve the goal of increased food production and reduce the potential to maintain the area in claim. It's like large and small usages depend on each other. The disappearance of many of the small uses would also weaken the basis for redundancies, for joint purchases, for dairies and for other food industries. That is why this policy will also affect the major uses and a living agriculture throughout the country. I am deeply concerned about that, and with that in mind, the Workers' Party will send the agreement back for further negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1484	Norwegian agriculture is not a matter of course, because having food production in this amazing country makes us need tools. That's why we ran the customs battle we had last year, because we thought it was quite right to stand up for Norwegian interests, even though it caused noise. But what's going on with new government? Yes, with the greatest self-satisfaction, the Right-State Council, Vidar Helgesen, travels to Brussels and says "I'm sorry – excuse me, excuse me" for the fact that the bad red-green government stood up for the Norwegian food industry, stood up for Norwegian food culture, stood up for Norwegian food production. Imagine if a French minister had done the same thing. He had to go by day, he had traveled to Brussels and talked down his national interests. The most amazing thing in that round was that the Minister of Agriculture and Food also supported the position that it is an advantage for our country that we are building down customs protection, that we are building down the Norwegian food industry, that we are building down Norwegian food production, although she should know that this is about tens of thousands of jobs from Finnmark in the north to Agder in the south. A Council of States is not a victim, but many may be victims of the policy of the Council of State. But fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to stop that change, and I hope they will also stand by it in the future. For today's settlement, the customs changes adopted by the red-green government are at the root of this. It's the biggest producers that have the most to profit from the customs changes that were made under the red-green regime, not the smallest. The financing of the agricultural settlement this year is based on the customs protection that was adopted under the previous government, and I am happy to reach the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Right and the Advance Party have also laid it down in their agreement. If not, the terms of the agreement would be broken. It is not possible to increase the target prices in the way that is done in this agreement, if you do not have proper and effective customs protection. But in Norway, there are not only large producers. Norway is a diverse country where we have fjords and mountains, it is cold and steep, and Norway has not become flat and warmer even if we have a new government. That's why we're going to need a variety of different tools if we're going to be able to have an agricultural product all over the country. It is very easy to say to have simplification, but Norway has not become simpler for that reason. Targeted instruments need to be used in Arctic agriculture, targeted instruments need to be available for farming around the fjords, and it is wise to have targeted instruments to increase the production of cereals, for example. around Mjösa, where I live. So we need a diversity of instruments in a diverse country. Therefore, part of this debate on simplification often becomes very prominent — because diversity needs diversity. Then there's one thing I'm a little surprised at in the treatment of this year's agricultural settlement, and it's that the Christian People's Party and the Left have been so excited about getting a new agricultural message. For as we experienced the Christian People's Party and the Left in the previous period, they agreed on the broad lines of the agricultural message adopted in the previous big age, and then when one has pressed through the need to get a new agricultural message, the Christian People's Party must be confident that they will have more impact on their policies in a message written by the Right and the Advance Party than in a message made by the Red-Green Government. What was the Christian People's Party melody in the previous period was: yes, we must have more production based on Norwegian resources. The centre party fully agrees with that. The Christian People's Party melody in the previous period was: Well, it wasn't good enough for chronically equal development. I and the Center Party also fully agreed, and we managed to make an extraordinary boost, especially the last year. When one then wants to press forward a new agricultural message, one has to believe that it is too bad what we managed to do after the previous agricultural message – where we were able to make the improvements in customs protection that we made in the Stortinget with the Christian People's Party on the team, where we managed to get an agricultural settlement that was really with and dense income gap, and which promised to say all parts of Norwegian agriculture. For an agricultural message is no goal, it's a means, a means to something better, and it's a very great responsibility the Christian People's Party has taken on when they push through this. It can't be that when you guaranteed a new government before the election, it says in that guarantee. Then the Christian People's Party guaranteed one more thing, and it was an agricultural guarantee, and I expect you – when it comes to the issue of the agricultural notification – to seek a majority against the parties you agree with, and it's not the Right Party and the Advance Party; it's the Workers' Party, it's the Center Party, it's the SV and it's the Green Party. That's where the real majority in the hall is, and fortunately I have faith that you too in that matter will finally come to your senses!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1503	There is a reason why agricultural policy is now on everyone's lips, and that is that it is thought untraditional and it is thought to be tense in the department, and when we now heard in the line change that the weather can also be left to the council, everyone should be very satisfied! For after eight years with a frozen centre party position in a department and in an industry where the need for innovation and offensiveness is high, this should be valued as a quality in itself. Without comparison: When I drove into Oslo on Sunday evening, I heard a replay with the sports personality Kaggestad at NRK. That was interesting. He talked about developing winners in sports. It was about letting go of creativity and madness; you had to have room for those who think the thoughts others haven't thought, because you don't blow any boundaries by trotting in the footprints that others have set. Unfortunately, in agriculture, laws, regulations, bureaucracy and regulations have made it extremely difficult to get rid of new ideas, because there should be no doubt that the need for new ideas is great. Under the red-green regime, this became particularly evident: a number of key indicators to which the red-greens are concerned – self-sufficiency, production on Norwegian resources, number of decaves cultivated area, etc. – evolved in the wrong direction. It's remarkable how short memory is. Up against this, we now have a state council that markets that believes in a different direction, and that will create room for those who want to bet and evolve. It is remarkable to see that agriculture that is contrary to its own future, and the call of forestry that they want deregulation and change, are totally ignored. It is in particular the role of the Labour Party towards the agricultural settlement of the year that I find remarkable. The Workers' Party's Knut Storberget left in January and suggested that the Workers' Party could deviate from practice, which is that in the event of a breach, the Stortinget votes for the State's last offer. Why did he do that? He knew that we had started conversations with the Christian People's Party and the Left here on the Stortingen to discuss the way further for agriculture. I can't see Storberg's marking needs at the time as anything but a need to make the process as difficult as possible, especially for the Christian People's Party. The signal was really quite dramatic because it signaled that the Workers' Party was willing to put the entire negotiating institute at risk for its own short-term, party-political interests. Everyone knows that we cannot have many settlements with breaches between the parties and subsequent accumulations in Stortinget, without this having consequences for the negotiations as such. What's the point of negotiating if you know that the Storting must take control and really deprive the industry of participation in structure and income? The working party and Storberget take a heavy should on their shoulders. The Labour Party has been guiding agricultural policy for very many years in the post-war period. At each review, increased production, profitability for all types of use, efficiency and productivity have been key objectives, but without saying anything about the consequences of the embedded contradictions in these objectives. The almost constant decrease in the number of uses has been an inevitable consequence, and this has not been communicated. The working party has simply not been honest, and the result is that the farmer is frustrated. In addition, the Workers' Party has been at the heart of introducing laws and regulations that restrict individual choice of their own strategies, and limits have been set at individual level, which have become restrictive for increasing numbers and are now threatening to be directly destructive to forward-looking investments and investments. In the year’s settlement, it is simplified and amended in a sound manner to a large extent. If we're going to have an agriculture on the offensive, there's no way out. Now we have a government and an agricultural minister who is dry and who is also honest with its objectives. It is remarkable to see that the Working Party chooses to sit on the side bar. Agriculture policy is not managed from Knut Storberget's office. It is managed by the Ministry of Agriculture, in active discussion and dialogue with the Christian People's Party and the Left and the Industry, and we will continue that for the next three years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1520	If I have learned something about agricultural policy and agricultural debates in Norway, then there are many myths, misunderstandings, trenches – and a bit of a lot of farmers and peasant organisations talking down their profession. What I miss is ambitions, visions and belief in the farmers of the future, from the farmers themselves, but also from us elected by the people. Because it's a word I almost don't hear, and that I may not have heard or read at all so far when we discuss this industry, it's 'export'. In the election campaign last year, I was at some debate meetings on agricultural policy, and when I talked about my belief in – and vision of – the market opportunities for Norwegian food exports, and for that matter also the export of Norwegian beverages, almost all the farmers in the hall laughed contemptuously and shook their heads, even though the same farmers had been hardheaded just a few minutes before saying that Norwegian food was clean and healthy food, good quality, best in the world, and that other countries' agricultural policy had ruined the food and caused it to be bad and to some extent dangerous. So I had to smile a little bit for myself when, in winter, a few months ago, I saw the first side of today's business. They had a big suggestion that representatives from the daily food industry in China were in Norway to start importing quality food from Norway. Thus, it was an initiative from Chinese business that came to Norway — not Norwegian business or food producers who had promoted themselves in China. This was just one example. Nor has it been so long since I read that the new gold for farmers in New Zealand and Australia was the export of milk – mostly dried milk – to, among other things. China, where prices were sky high, because they wanted quality products. The possibilities are there, and we probably have a lot to learn from countries like this. New Zealand, Australia and Switzerland, where food and agricultural products have become an export industry. Now I'm going to be careful to compare food with furniture, but we all know the Norwegian Tripp Trapp chair, which many of us have probably been sitting up in as well, and which my daughter is sitting in now. It's a Norwegian export adventure. It is sold in Norway for approx. NOK 1500-1,800, while in China it has been sold for four to five times as much, although it could certainly have been copied, produced and sold in China for a few hundred copies. Think of the possibilities: export of Norwegian food and Norwegian drinks. Consider whether one could have copied the same export success in Norway, for example. the fishing industry. But then agricultural policy has to be changed, and farmers' organisations have to stop their techniques of ruling and be willing to change. Since agricultural policy has been on the agenda for the last time, we have been informed of the bureaucratic, rigid and old-fashioned legislation we have in Norwegian agriculture. If we are to have modern agriculture in Norway, the legislation must follow developments. That there are over 100 different state grants, they say. At present, there are more than 40,000 farmers who receive grants, although far from everyone helping to produce food. A small poultry with five sheep and a small patch of land next to it is enough to be a eligible farmer. But there are many farmers who think new and want to bet, because they believe in being the farmer of the future in Norway. As I mentioned earlier today, I was a few weeks ago and opened up a bigger poultry with a dairy farmer in Sande in Westfold, right on the border of the Drammen. He'd bet over 10 million. kr, in order to bet on high technology within this, in order to produce more milk. His problem was that he is only allowed to produce milk within a quota of 400,000 litres per year, but he wants to produce over 1 million litres per year. Then I think, with respect to reporting, that there is something wrong in Norway. There's a lot of things you could say about it, but the time is getting short, I see. I hope that at least in a later debate we can also focus on the horse industry – not because I think you should start eating more horse, on the contrary: I think you should stop doing that. But I actually believe that there can be a huge industry in Norway, and it is also about district policy. Already today, it is estimated that the economic size of horses is between 8 and 9 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1550	I would like to start by saying that I believe it is important to say in this debate that in the historical perspective Norwegian agricultural policy is a very great success. In this country, which has difficult geographical conditions, we have been able to produce good and safe food for the Norwegian population for decades, despite the structural pressure in this industry, as in other industries. The Workers' Party has always accepted that. However, we have managed to pursue a policy that has both ensured food production and maintained Norway as Norway should be, with a country-wide settlement and agricultural production across the country. If we look at the other countries, which I notice are referred to both directly and indirectly in this debate, and which are called successful in terms of agricultural policy, it is quite another development: Food safety is lower. It is not true that these countries are not allowed to import food. It is a centralisation of the population, which does not serve the structural development of society. That is the situation we are facing in this debate. That's what we're really talking about, and I think it should be the Grand Duchy's job to protect agriculture and the agricultural population and not put them under unnecessary structural pressure. It's an unnecessary structural pressure we're talking about. But what we now see from the right-hand government is exactly the opposite, with a rhetoric that has one single goal: to make Norway more liberal. I understand that an agricultural minister from the Progress Party does so, because that is her task. But it must not be approved by Stortinget. That is what this debate is about, and that is what the challenge is. I believe, of course, that the economy is important, but, as other speakers have also said, the Council of States can be satisfied because she gets through the most important thing for her, namely the structure. And here, of course, the Left and Christian People's Party bears a clear responsibility, unfortunately. I understand that, in the so-called parliamentary situation, it must be accepted, because if not, we have a situation of some kind. That's why they do it, but they shouldn't. They should have done as several others have said: establish another majority, because this is so important. The government has three front lines: One is about the organisation of the welfare state. The other is about the labour market. The third is about agriculture. If they succeed in structural changes in these areas, as they will, of course, against the will of the majority of the population, it will be a great victory for the right forces in Norway, but it should not be. This debate should be seen in such a context. I make agriculture aware that this is actually a social struggle. Maybe it'll be preceded by words like that. Someone's pulling the smiley tape now, I see. But that's what it is: it's a social struggle, where the Progress Party has entered the government offices and gets the chance to implement the fundamental structural changes that we haven't seen before in this room. This is part of that strategy, and I think we should say no to that. Agriculture must also be aware that this is not just about agriculture as such. It is also about the structures of agriculture and the collective system of agriculture, in which agriculture has great interests, and which will be the next victim of Listhaug, if she gets the chance. I see this, and I think everyone should see it. I am absolutely sure that the Council of States understands it for itself, because she is politically and strategically wise in this way, but she represents the Progress Party and should not be able to get through to its policy in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1595	If people are to live throughout Norway, agriculture is important. And if Norway is going to produce more food to contribute to a measure of greater food production, we are dependent on a living agriculture throughout the country. We need to use the resources where they exist. The agricultural settlement does not contribute to it. If resources are to be used where they exist, we must have offensive use of instruments by the state and the authorities that contribute to the implementation of the bold objectives set out in the Norwegian agricultural policy report. The Storting Message presented by the Stoltenberg government was well received here at Stortinget, in industry and in consumers. It laid the groundwork for a policy of agriculture that created optimism and confidence in the future. In my home country, Uppland, the agricultural industry is important for both housing and employment — not only in agriculture but also for the food industry, tourism, cultural industries and experience-based enterprises. In Lesja, for example. agriculture constitutes 22 pst. of employment. For many years, investment in agriculture was limited, but in meeting those who are in the industry today, we have seen the optimism slowly coming back. Young gardeners have invested millions in new operating buildings and created confidence in the future for new generations of farmers. This has happened because the instruments have made it possible. Norwegian agriculture is built on a fine-masked structure, which allows agriculture both north of Norway, in the valleys above Gudbrandsdalen and Valdres, in the flatlands of Hadeland and in the large agricultural areas of Jären. Through the offer presented and to be adopted here in Stortinget today – which is a little decorated – we are rocking by this structure. The active substances are targeted at the large gardens in central struts in the country. It affects small and medium-sized applications. Areas in less central parts of the country are being decommissioned. The alternative for many farmers is that they will spend more time transporting feed and manure than on what is at the heart of agriculture. It is of little help that the agricultural spokesperson of the Progress Party, Morten Ørsal Johansen, says he wants small and medium-sized applications to be able to continue. Priority must also be given to schemes based on this desire. If not, it'll just be wishes. We heard that the agricultural policy figure of the Progress Party confirmed that the content of the agreement that is being discussed here today is not in line with the main points of reference of the Progress Party – primary points of reference that will lay down parts of Agriculture-Norway. We have also heard that they will continue to work for their primary positions. Then we know what we're waiting for. Agriculture needs a future-oriented approach, and the industry needs more young people who are motivated to participate. Agriculture has many possibilities. As the representative Hemdal, from the Christian People's Party, was in his post: this is an industry that has had good productivity development, and that is innovative and technology-intensive. Agriculture is, in fact, one of the industries that has applied ICT solutions to the greatest extent. We should talk more about this when we're going to motivate young people into the industry. Just recruitment and education are essential for the future of the agricultural industry. Then it is strange that the government could not meet the organisations on the requirement for a project that places recruitment and education in the context. I believe that when we are going to continue to work on agricultural policy, we also need to pay more attention to measures aimed specifically at girls who want to enter the industry. Too few girls use the opportunities they have today, so in this area too, we need an active gender equality policy. I really hope that the Minister of Agriculture will put forward a policy that will ensure that we motivate more young girls to enter the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1621	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1624	I noticed that some people are trying to draw up false stories of history in the debate. I think it's much more forward-looking to see what challenges are coming, and whether we're ready to deal with them. Increasing population growth, climate change, pressures on natural resources and rising commodity prices are some of these. By 2050 there will be 9 billion people on earth, and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that food production needs to increase by 70 pst. within that period. The only way to ensure that future generations have access to safe food is to use resources in a sustainable way. Then we're dependent on maintaining the arable land we have, and we're pursuing a policy that maintains an agriculture all over the country. With the government's first proposals, we clearly saw a shift from West farms to large farms in the East and Jären. The challenge of such a serious structural distortion is that it could in the long run be detrimental to increased food production, because it threatens arable land in parts of the country. The council has been busy saying that she will release the peasant, but the release she has sought has not been a real freedom for the peasant, but a direction to large full-time peasants to far greater extent than the possibility of running small and large, full-time and part-time. It must be allowed to point out that the rescue operation from the Christian People's Party – that they have now saved the peasants who are working with sheep – has a limited scope. The truth is that they improve the situation on the basis of government proposals, but not on the basis of the situation as it is today. In reality, there's still a huge cut of 165 million. kr in livestock supplements for sheep and suckling goats. I get almost «stepels» when I hear the progress party representative Johansen say that the removal of the early retirement scheme for farmers by the Progress Party belongs to the list of good simplification measures. Such an approach to simplification can also give us heated debates in this Chamber in the future. But it was good that we learned that a sheep is a sheep, also for the Advancement Party. [[Laughter]] The first year of the government of the Right Party and the Advance Party has been something special. We have repeatedly seen and confirmed in this room that the Council of State does not want to confirm that she is related to the majority of the population. I can mention the debates on soil protection, customs protection, price control and, not least, agricultural settlements at the end of the day. A new history of agricultural policy is being written. I hope that story gets short, and that there will be a new direction again soon. I am recording that the case rapporteur from the Right did not answer Knut Storberget's question as to why not the offer was anchored in Stortinget. We expect this to change in the years to come, and the government to take in the clear remarks from the Storing in this area. An arrogance to the majority in Stortinget does not clothe any government, whatever its composition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1643	It has been a wonderful time for those who join the agricultural debate. Especially wonderful is the approach of the Workers' Party. It is alarming that the Workers' Party tried to play up to conflict before the agricultural settlement was under way. You put yourself here on a line that will in the long run undermine the negotiating institute, when you then openly ask questions about whether they would respect the outcome of the negotiations. The Labour Party wants – according to its own agricultural policy platform – structural changes, but is little concrete about what it wants to change. This is disappointing from a party that claims to be reform-friendly. This shows that people in the districts who want to change should give their support to the government. If the Workers' Party wants structural change and simplification, the government should be free — not try to set up its own agricultural policy office next to the agricultural negotiations. The Labour Party, in its agricultural policy platform, states that the economic policy instrument will facilitate: ‘framework conditions and instruments to stimulate R & D and innovation, inter alia: in the form of technology and product development’. It is tempting to ask: What are the taxes and other instruments that the Workers' Party intends to change? The right is concerned with action and is more concerned with action than with arguments. Milk production is an area in need of simplification. The changes in the quota system for milk in the agricultural holding are a step in the right direction. By raising the production ceiling to 900 000 litres, we want to help more producers make use of their capacity in milk production and to allow dairy farmers, like other traders, to make their investment decisions based on the resource situation. This does not mean that all dairy farms will produce 900000 litres per year. The resource base is different and provides a basis for different sizes of dairy farming across the country. We need to have room for both small, medium and large dairy farms in Norway. The country's share of free milk quotas is reduced from 50 pst. until 20 pst. This makes it easier for individual producers to build up by purchasing larger quantities of allowances on the private market, rather than for the country to allocate allowances equally to all producers. We also liquidate the specific legislation for joint ventures. All dairy farms are treated equally, regardless of their organisational form. We get the same production ceiling for co-operatives and single use, and at the same time the number and distance rules for co-operatives are repealed. Milk production is one of the carriers of Norwegian agriculture. We'll make it easier for those who want to keep going. One of the assumptions is that those with a willingness to invest have something to invest in. In this case, the availability of milk quotas is essential. Therefore, those changes are significant. Right doesn't just talk about change; we're actually changing. We want to strengthen agriculture by simplifying laws, regulations and support schemes. These changes must take place gradually. This agricultural settlement is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1665	The agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left of May 28 this year is well written for its purpose: to conceal. All good purposes are included, but these are not the real goals that are governed by. With the Progress Party, the Right and the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, the pace of today's development is strengthened. The social consequences of the course are smaller agricultural land, smaller crops, more imports of cereals and soya and lower levels of maritime supply. Others should wonder that words and reality are not correct. More should go to the professional contexts. There's a lot of people here talking about knowledge-based development in other issues. Agriculture is an industrial activity. Agricultural policy is a matter of society, not of agriculture. Societal matters are food safety. Every maritime country works for a high degree of maritime supply. The Norwegian is falling and on 35 pst. It is the size of Norwegian plant production that determines the degree of maritime supply. With less and less area in operation and lower crops, lower plant production and lower seas supply – simple and logical. The profitability of growing plants for livestock needs to be increased, and it is the cereal and co-feed price that needs to be raised. It'll also increase the value of grass. So what does the Minister of Agriculture do? Sets as ultimatum not to increase the feed price. Yeah, state councils spend 49.8 million. kr extra for increased subsidisation of feed – basic errors and waste of state appropriations. The incomes of agriculture are market prices and appropriations. There shall be a fundamental division of roles between these two sources of income. Market prices shall ensure volume and quality and the appropriations shall ensure operating modes and equivalent income opportunities under very different natural conditions. What happens should be a crossroads of thought for the business community in the Right. Market prices should, under this government, be weakened rather than increased. The appropriations shall be collected in the few. Hegnar can raddle over large amounts to individuals, including those who are signed. It's a basic wrong course we're in right now. Overall, there is a sharp increase in vulnerability. It's the opposite of robustness. It's vulnerable economically, ecologically and socially. I want to ask those young people who are wondering about investing and putting themselves in debt, think about it several times, because I have experience with the life situation of people who are in a large debt position. Finally, a new course is needed. The key to the new course is to put away the veils. Now the industry has to tell us what it wants, what it will give priority to. This will allow us to have a knowledge-based debate in this Chamber. Unfortunately, the debate so far has not been particularly significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1680	Reforms that increase the salary based on greater freedom for the farmer are the main lines of the year's agricultural policy. Substantial increases in production permits are in the agreement, and a greater degree of bonding is a reality. That's great. One must also be allowed to wonder about the detailed management that has been a constant feature of agricultural policy until now, along with a pop-up menu that has generated a bureaucracy that has not seen fit. The ban on food production appears to be strange to many in a country up to the North Pole. If that was what this representative Storberget meant when he claimed that agricultural policy was happening in his office, it is good for everyone that he has moved to another office where one is more concerned with rational modernisation. So a few words about tax returns, which show that the agricultural actors have an average tax burden of 24 p.p., while other industries have 33 p.p. to 35 pst. So that means that this industry has a tax advantage that gives more net pay than other self-employed businesses. It's like saying net pay a living off, not gross pay, which many people use as an example when comparing the different groups with the farmer. It is, as I said, an advantage that no one other than the farmer has, but let me underline that I do not know any farmer who does not consume his wages. It has been an increase in productivity and an increase in efficiency that is good, and the cooperation party in this year's agricultural policy makes it clear that this will continue. It is also true that the farmer is co-owner of large cooperatives who buy raw materials from the farmer. The wages for several of these are weak, and this has consequences for the price of the farmer and for the consumer who has to pay for the products. Going in and analysing the operation of these peasant-owned companies, looking at an inefficient operation, especially in the management of the company. One has a total administrative cost of 30 pst. higher than the corresponding non-cooperative company. Where is the farmer who should demand the same efficient operation of his company, as the competitor? This would lead to better profitability, and it would be useful for both farmers and consumers. That's why I have to say that I'm disappointed with the farmers' ability and the desire to go in and claim to clean up these companies. But if you're going to base the SV representative's statement, this government is mostly closed, because even the weather has become better with a blue-blue government than it was under the red-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1693	The agricultural industry is an important industry in all parts of the country, and if we are to be closed down with a forward-looking agricultural policy, it requires an open commitment to innovation. We have behind us eight years of red-green rule where over 9 000 farms have been laid down, and over 18 000 farms have disappeared from agriculture. The total agricultural area has been reduced by 500000 deches and the self-sufficiency rate has fallen from 52 pst. to 48 pst. This clearly shows that we have had a policy that has far gone wrong with our miscarriage, and unfortunately there is a lot about the agricultural industry that has gone in the wrong direction. This government wants to change it, and we already see the outlines of it. A good starting point for the agricultural negotiations was an even better result of the negotiations between the Government Party and the Cooperation Party. The new agricultural policy will meet the objectives of increasing food production and agriculture throughout the country. There have been no more than two years since agricultural negotiations were broken. Then there was a red-green plural government with the Minister of Agriculture from the Central Party who was responsible. This time there has been a strange entrance to the agricultural negotiations. Already in winter, agricultural policy spokesperson in the Labour Party, Knut Storberget, said that it was not certain that they would vote in favour of the offer in the agricultural negotiations if it were broken. And it didn't stop there. During negotiations between the Government Party and the Cooperation Party, the same Storberget stated that he hoped that his government would also say no to the agricultural settlement. The worst, however, is what Storberget said to the class struggle in May: ‘I feel that I am in charge of agricultural policy from my office.’ Fortunately, the government and the cooperation party are supposed to shape the agricultural policy of the future and not a self-employment and populist opposition. Those who are really concerned about the future of agriculture should refrain from talking about farming and farming. The opposition's black measurement is crazy enough in itself. The situation is no better if farmers' organizations talk down and measure the situation black. Knowing that one of the biggest challenges facing Norwegian agricultural industry is the coming generation shifts makes this situation extra serious. Fortunately, many farmers look optimistic about the future. It also applies in my home country, Sogn and Fjordane. The feedback from many farmers is that the government, together with the cooperation party, is on the right track in agricultural policy. It is very inspiring for all those concerned with increased food production and agriculture throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1715	Purgatory policy is a balance between three areas: animal health, nutrient basis and ecological sustainability. There are challenges to reindeer management in all these three areas. The Christian People's Party believes that reindeer management can make good use of resources in marginal mountain and outback areas, and that it is a central bearer of Sami culture. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that the measures of the reindeer management policy must be designed to ensure that the industry is sustainable in both an economic, ecological and cultural sense: three pillars to which the agreement takes account and on which the reindeer management in Norway is based. At the same time, it is precisely in terms of these sustainability pillars that we see the greatest challenges. There is still too much grazing on pastures in parts of Finnmark, Troms and Nordland. This is mainly due to the underregulation of grazing land. The Christian People's Party believes that stricter regulation of grazing stock is necessary for the sustainability of both the environment and industry. Purgatory policy was part of the previous agricultural notification. That review, in our opinion, was not enough. It's been 20 years since Stortinget dealt with its own big business report on reindeer operations. The Christian People's Party believes that the new agricultural message needs to take greater account of the major challenges and changes that have occurred in reindeer management during this period, in the light of the alarming reports that come about the state of the industry. An assessment should also be made of whether a floor should be laid before proportionate removal requirements for slaughterhouses are implemented. Such a model has been proposed by the Christian People's Party in Finnmark. We believe that this is important for the care of the small drivers. In the agricultural notification, one must also focus on women in a man-dominated industry and facilitate the possibility for those who want to be active practitioners. It also applies at economic level to the conversion of the grant and compensation schemes. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the work of reducing the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark takes a long time. We are concerned that this important work is being followed up to ensure that clean-up operations are as sustainable as possible. It is a paradox that many of the stocks are nearly empty, while production in some areas can be doubled at higher harvests of calves. Demand is greater than production. By bringing up production, there will be less pressure on grazing areas, and profitability will increase. Here it is a great potential for the industry. Simplification and red tape are important. There have been important moves, and the Christian People's Party sees a positive development for an important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1730	On the left, an agreement was put in place to ensure the diversity of Norwegian agriculture. This was important. Agriculture is responsible for many things — it is a societal task, and it is important to look ahead and have predictability. It's a very long-term industry. Therefore, it was important that we were involved and put in place what ensures the foreseeable economy for small and medium-sized applications. I think it made sense that we got coordinated milk quotas. I also think it was very good that the investment grant was put in place, that the roof was removed. This must be followed up by the states responsible. The curtailment, which to some extent is currently taking place, should not continue. It is also important to follow up such a long-term industry with financial instruments, because it is a paradox that when you get a mortgage, you have 40 years of amortisation, but in agriculture – such a long-term industry – you have 20 years. This means that liquidity becomes much more strenuous than it needs to be. I also think it makes sense to now assess fund reserves in the same way as in forestry with the forest regulation, so that agriculture has the opportunity to raise its capital. No other industry has changed as quickly as agriculture in recent years. It's a little strange to hear someone say that agriculture is not a conversion. In the years that have passed, there is hardly any industry that has managed to change that way. I think that agriculture is an industry that deserves something quite different from decommissioning. The production of food is and becomes very important. Not least, agriculture takes care of a wide range of important societal concerns, such as: cultural landscapes, which are important for other industries, not least travel life, which we also have across the country. In today's debate, it is claimed that the Left was contributing to cutbacks for the very least. No, we agreed to a different profile – among other things. so that small and medium-sized applications now have a predictable economy, at today's level. We have to remember that the level of transfer you have landed on, which will be adopted today, is about what we went to elections on. The government parties, before they came into government, assumed a completely different level of agriculture. That's why we can say that with the two centrums in the head, something has been put in place that I think has gone in the right direction. This is within what we've been saying all along that it should be on. It's a great distance from what it was claimed before the election, to what it is now. Therefore, the centre will be crucial in the years to come for agriculture. It can't be that way when you're walking on big paths, you don't have the opportunity to clear the path to move forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1747	Today, we can see that there is a majority in this House for a modern and forward-looking agricultural policy. It is an agricultural policy to contribute to increased Norwegian food production, which provides a basis for better self-sufficiency, simplification and red tape, environmentally friendly agriculture and,not least, increased profitability, which also provides the basis for future recruitment to an important industry for the whole country. An unusual amount of scare pictures has been drawn out this spring, including from batches in this room. It is said that one's memory in politics is 14 days. At least these are the red-green parties, which seem to have some form of advanced political memory failure in the fact that Norwegian agriculture has been changing, including in recent years, with the red-green government. In the last ten years, 18 000 annual works have disappeared from the industry. The grain area has been reduced by 11 pst. Compared with 10,000 use, it has decreased. I'm not saying that many of the changes in agriculture have not been right or necessary. But with the many characteristics that become part of the new agricultural policy, it would be interesting to hear the characteristics of the Workers' Party, the SVs and, perhaps in particular, the Central Party's characteristics of development under its own government. The issue is that we now have a government with executive power and a large majority that confirms the broad lines of a policy to provide simplification, more food production and more profitability. Those who are concerned with the future of Norwegian agriculture must also be concerned with increasing age in Norwegian farmers. Of course, new recruitment requires opportunities for those who want to bet and make the farm a life's work and a living, as we are now doing better. But it also requires that we, as political leaders, help to talk agriculture out and not spread horror images and doomsday prophecies. Here I have to admit that the Center Party has distinguished itself, and that in a special class. For example, my co-representative from Sør-Trøndelag, the Heidi Greni of the Central Party, was out in his locality in May and characterised the new agricultural policy as a disaster for Norwegian agricultural policy and districts, and in the same sling as for Norwegian defence policy, in view of the degree of self-sufficiency. But she also made herself say that politics will lead to the industry dying out. When we others are busy talking to the Norwegian farmer and giving the farmer better opportunities to create a living, to increase food production and to secure agriculture throughout the country, the contribution of the Centre Party is to say that the industry is going to die out and draw images that can only have one result – to scare young people from considering agriculture as food. That's too bad. The fact that it's the Center Party that's going to help create such an atmosphere among young people is motivating. Let's just hope that young people, I'd almost said, don't listen to the Center Party in this case either.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1758	I can confirm that the Centre Party is concerned about the new course that the government has pointed out for agriculture. The government claims that the objective is to increase food production and agriculture throughout the country. But the problem is that the prescription that is printed gives the wrong medicine. When only the largest plots are used, a very large amount of land will run out of operation. This will weaken food production, not increase it. The aim of the Council of State is simplification and freedom for the peasant to choose his development. The reality is that it is the operational basis, the landscape and the economy that restricts the farmer's freedom of choice, not public demarcation, as the Council of State claims. The government's agricultural policy does not fit a district like Sogn and Fjordane. We have steep hills, fjords and mountains. The average consumption is 18 dairy cows, the average consumption is 56 winter sheep, and the average quota is 128 000 litres. Despite this geography, Sogn and Fjordane are the sixth largest milk group in the country. We're producing 105 million. Liter, and it has been stable for the last ten years. The government's structural grip threatens agriculture in my state and many other districts. The quota ceiling is not the main problem for our family use. On the other hand, it is the government's structural approach, combined with the economic downturn for small and medium-sized applications. The main term is taken with the salutation of the Left and Christian People's Party, unfortunately. It must be a faulty agricultural policy to reduce the incomes of the large majority of farmers. Agricultural policy must be set up in such a way that it is possible to run profitable agriculture throughout the country. The challenge is to increase food production, secure production on the cultivated land we have, and secure the economy both for family use and for joint farms. It will therefore be decisive that agricultural policy has a profile and an economic framework that makes it possible to have agriculture throughout the country. Agriculture is the cornerstone of the countryside. It is the basis for the food industry, housing, travel and other industries. The Right Party and the Progress Party set out an agricultural policy in which maps and terrain do not agree. What should we do? Then we have to adjust the compass and adjust to the terrain. Therefore, the Centre Party will send the proposal back to new negotiations with the agricultural organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1772	Norway is a country with long food and agricultural traditions. If these traditions are to be upheld, we need a living and profitable agriculture throughout the country that gives future-optimism to the active farmer. Right wants a step-by-step, responsible change in Norwegian agricultural policy. We have long wanted to use tools to ensure that farmers who want to become or enter the profession will experience a easier everyday life and want to continue their efforts. For the government, it is important to strengthen agriculture through the simplification of laws, regulations and support schemes. This is because we believe it will strengthen the capital situation, increase turnover and improve recruitment. Most people agree that agricultural policy needs to be addressed. Co-operation is one of several examples of government doing just that. Farmers who have chosen co-operation as a form of operation highlight in particular the potential to benefit from economies of scale and that it provides a basis for users to gain access to holidays and leisure in line with other groups in society. The current legislation with different production ceilings for individual and combined farms, together with the specific distance limitation for joint farms, is unfortunate – this is because it arbitrarily turns out which production ceilings can be reached. Because cooperatives have proved to be a desired form of operation for many, and because many experience it as more efficient and appropriate, the government has proposed, among other things. removing quota limits and concession limits for production, both for single use and for joint operations. In the event of the expiry of those provisions, milk producers will be given the opportunity to adapt as best they can, without a specific legislation for joint farms limiting the number or distance between the partners. It is critical that over the year the red-greens with the Senterpartiet at the agricultural rudder have refused equal treatment for cooperatives. The government is criticized, but few other parties are concrete in terms of what their policies are. The Agrarian Policy Platform of the Workers' Party states: ‘We need to ensure access to capital and investment funds for agriculture and forestry, for example: through Innovation Norway.’ My question is, how will the Workers' Party follow up on this? Will the Workers' Party ensure that more capital and investment will be prioritised in the budget for the harvest? I hope the Labour Party can answer this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1794	The Labour Party believes that food production needs to be increased, and we do not believe that it should be agriculture throughout the country. Unfortunately, it does not seem that the government with the minister at the head believes. Of course, this should not come as a surprise to us when we read the programmes of the Progress Party and the Right, and not least when we remember their alternative budgets from previous years. It is good that the Left and Christian People's Party contributed to a better agreement, but at the same time it is worrying that the Left and the Christian People's Party is behind the great structures that this agreement provides. This policy does not fit into our agriculture, and at least not into my home country of Northern Ireland. But there is no doubt that this year's agricultural settlement is better than it could have been, and I am thinking of the Progress Party's proposal for a cut of 5.5 billion. kr last year, and Right cut proposal of 1.5 br. kr. So I'm glad that the government is not a majority government with this view. I am particularly concerned about the structural profile of this year's agricultural settlement. Poor economic settlements can be lived with over a short period of time, but the structure will affect small and medium-sized uses and combined use across the country and will contribute in the long term to the drastic closure of Norwegian rural agriculture. The size of the population set ambitious objectives for Norwegian agriculture during the treatment of the agricultural notification and decided that food production should increase as the population grows, and that we should continue to have agriculture throughout the country. It was also established that the agricultural agreement, import protection and market regulation are important pillars of agricultural policy and that a varied use structure should be established that takes into account both current traditional family use and provides opportunities for different forms of cooperation. I am of the opinion that the agricultural policy we have had was very good, but it was underfunded. That's what the red-green government was on the right track to do, which I believe the Labour Party has followed up in its alternative budget, and which is not least evident in the agricultural policy platform presented by the Labour Party in April this year. There is our main message that one must focus on agriculture throughout the country and continue to protect customs duties for Norwegian food products, and that agriculture is still wanted in the role of a market regulator through cooperative organisations. I note in the debate today that more people from the Right and the Progressive Party are surprised by the Labour Party's policy. Yes, at least they have not read the Party's party program. For the purpose of this year's agreement, there is a robust structural approach. Listhaug is quite clear that agriculture will continue to be structured, and imports will have to be opened up and the cheesetoll will be removed. No, this is too bad. That is why we want to send the agreement back.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1815	Many have been in the pulpit and have spoken warmly about Norwegian agriculture, so hope for young farmers should be that after listening to this debate. Family farms are the heart and main nerve of Norwegian agricultural policy. Young shells and can take over. They are skilled, ground-based professionals with a lot of idealism and a sense of action for agriculture, and they see almost more pleasure in making good products – I think sometimes – than in having something left in their purse. It is our responsibility to facilitate the growth of these very uses – small and medium-sized use and family use. It is our responsibility to facilitate that they have an income that they can live on, along with their family. It is important to ensure that they have predictability that they can dry their bets, even when they are young and have small kids. At the same time, we need to make it possible for them to be able to contribute to the creation of food growth – with tools, financial instruments, innovation and technical solutions that allow them to have a more equal working time for others, with flexibility and the ability to be with the family. Leisure also means something to the farmers and to the young people who are going to bet. It is important for the Christian People's Party that we actually care for this support. Family use is very important for local communities across the country. We need to ensure that young people dare to take over – we need to show them predictability. That responsibility has been taken by the Christian People's Party and will take. It is important for the Christian People's Party that we also focus on research and development, so that young farmers are given the opportunity to get tools that make everyday life easier, and that we ensure that they have good replacement arrangements, which make them have time to be with theirs. The agreement between the government parties and us as a cooperative party has been and strengthened this very thing with the replacement arrangement, which we believe is a small but important incentive. Time-saving schemes through innovation and better productivity are part of and strengthen young farmers, so that they become more durable and dare to bet in the future. Better solutions and welfare systems make them feel like they're part of the rest of society. It is our responsibility in this room to ensure that we have a long-term and predictable agriculture in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1832	Having heard some of the debate on the general agricultural policy of the government, it seems that dual thinking – i.e. having two opinions that are mutually exclusive – is not only something found in dystopian novels, but also in our word change. How else can we interpret the arguments we have heard about the impact on animal welfare in Norway? In a situation where more stringent controls are required to ensure animal welfare, it is strange that animal welfare should be weakened at the same time. It's mutually exclusive. But I didn't start with the beginning, so I'll come to the beginning now. In a system where you grow animals to use them as a food resource, you just need to show respect for the animals as well. It's almost like the more animal intelligence and emotional life are researched, the more surprised you are to see where these fellow creatures actually are. Baconet – I kept saying – comes from a pig that is more intelligent than the steaks we use as pets, and you've figured out that chickens can imagine what the future will be like. It reminds us of how important it is to have respect for the self-esteem and peculiarity of animals. I am very pleased that we have received a government council that sets animal welfare high. Let me do some examples, which also go beyond what is the main theme today. Driving with chicken production in Norway today is an opportunity to do equivalent to 0.6 years of work, which means that you are almost forced out in part-time. Double concession limits allow full-time production of chicken. It means better time to follow up the animals. That's good news for the chicken. If animal welfare is not good enough, the farmer will notice the changes in the rules proposed, by having fewer chickens. If production is to be increased, good animal husbandry needs to be documented. We have a government that works to reward animal welfare and become a competitive advantage. That's good news for the animals. Today there is at least one veterinary inspection visit per year; now at least two are required. That's good news for the animals. We also need to see this in the context of the increased priority given to supervision by the Food Safety Authority and the fact that they have been told to do more field work and less office work. When you also change the grant rules, so that you get more subsidies the more animals, you will eventually see an agricultural sector where more people work full time. The advantage of that, I've already been in. It is not as some claim that stricter animal welfare requirements lead to poorer animal welfare. It's the rhetoric that's self-contradictory, not reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1849	For those of us who want to call about the agricultural agreement as the institute, it has been a very bad process this year. The result is no reason to rejoice either. To all intents and purposes, more people – both from the government party and from the Christian People's Party and the Left – are trying to say that the Labour Party is responsible for the immature and messy process of the agricultural agreement this year. That's shooting way over the goal. The representative, Gundersen, said that the Labour Party should have supported the arrangement by the government anyway. Well, I would like to point out that there is actually no other party in this room that will support the original submitted by the government. The government is running a reverse Robin Hood policy. They take from the smallest and give to the largest. If we look at the total area of the region, we in Sogn and Fjordane are the ones that come out of all the counties, with negative 4.1 million. kr. If we just look at roughage, they're going to lose under 250 dollars. kr. Of the single use is 90 pst. in my home country. How far is it practical and economically possible to travel to feed? I'm afraid this will lead to large areas being taken out of production and an increase in food production being based on imported feed. For travel life there is also a blow in the face. Nobody wants to see green tunnels. During the handling of the agricultural message, many of the sympathizers to the farmers liked very well what the Christian People's Party wrote and said in the debate. In the election campaign, this was repeated and added that the Christian People's Party was to be the guarantor that the Progress Party and the Right's agricultural policy would not see the light of day. The same thing said the Left in my state. The Christian People's Party was given the chance to prove what they stood for in agricultural policy. Then they took away the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Green Party – the option that would give farmers an income boost, not increase the income gap, the option that would keep up incentives for the small and medium-sized uses, which would increase our self-sufficiency rate based on Norwegian resources and which would help maintain the same cultural landscape throughout the country. What really scares me is that the supporting party – the Christian People's Party and the Left – now says they are united in the direction of the declared. Direction is a centralisation, a transfer from small and medium-sized applications to the large ones. The degree of self-sufficiency based on Norwegian feed is declining. The income gap between the farmers and others will increase. This is not the right direction for increased self-sufficiency – to give confidence and to promote recruitment to small and medium-sized farms, which are the mainstays of our agriculture, and to promote and sustain the important food industry. It's about the seventh and last thing about what we want our country to look like. It's a social struggle, as the representative Kolberg said correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1868	Agriculture is an important and forward-looking industry. The practitioners are among the country's most skilled and efficient trade union workers. If they are to be given the opportunity to carry on their own business and industry as a whole, the policy must facilitate this. The total agricultural area was reduced by 5 pst. under the red-green. The grain area was reduced by 11 pst. under the red-green. The proportion of land rented increased from 38 pst. to 43 pst. under the red-green. The number of farms was reduced by 9000 under the red-green. The number of uses with milk production was reduced by 37 pst. under the red-green. In particular, the party's agricultural policy signals go all the way into this debate – from the party's agricultural policy platform, which apparently opens up certain proposals for structural changes and simplifications, to the representative of Kolberg, who will protect the industry from change because it has a stamp from the current government. I thought everyone agreed that more policies that don't work are wrong policies. Fortunately, we have a government and a large number of people who take this into account. Norway has large and increasing forest resources. We are probably among the countries in the world that have the largest growth in relation to the quantity taken through the highest every year. This shows significant industrial potential and has significant environmental and climate benefits. The government has given good signals to the industry that active and profitable forestry and a competitive forest industry are important and a field of activity. It's in 214 million. SEK to forestry for 2015. I would like to encourage the government to give priority to infrastructure measures in its further work on the allocation of these funds – infrastructure for primary forestry and for the forestry industry. This is a very transport-intensive industry. If we are to lay the foundation for both increased forest production and forest-industrial development, the infrastructure must be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1879	It could be good times for John Deere and Massey Ferguson in the future. It is not because there are several farmers with good advice, but for a farmer in the West who is to produce nearly a million litres of milk a year, there will be dramatic hours of work in the tractor. I wonder if the Minister of Agriculture, who boasts of being no partisans from Sunnmøre, has seen a lot of grass here like the rest of us in the North West don't know about. The truth is that there is simply not enough available grass that it will be possible for most individual or group farms to get close to the production ceiling that is seen here, and those who try will wear out both the agricultural machinery and many sets of tractor tyres to run thousands of kilometers to collect enough round balls. I thought the government had a fascinating rhetoric. They're pointing to something that's all about not being good, like here, that too many gardening is being laid down. Then they come up with solutions that make agriculture an ideological battlefield and just help to reinforce the problem. Talking to the government about better recruitment to the profession and prioritising the full-time farmer is only rhetoric that conceals the actual impact of government policy: that we will have even more abandoned gardening and even fewer farmers in Norway. A total increase wants to increase food production in Norway, but it will only be a hard target if agricultural policy does not plan to exploit the resource base across the country. This means facilitating a user structure in which small and medium-sized users also increase their pay. The fact that the Left and Christian People's Party managed to ensure a little more to improve income and strengthen important arrangements is good, but it is alarming that the structural profile remains the same. It will affect the smaller actors in agriculture, and it is also too bad for the cereals sector in the West to be treated only with buttons and glacial images. For the Labour Party, it is important to strengthen the economy of Norwegian grain production. Both the government's proposal and the negotiated agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, in our view, are too bad. There are many reasons for this, but the most important one is that the establishment will particularly affect food production in the districts and small and medium-sized applications. This year's agricultural policy is not in line with what farmers need, it is not a policy that the Norwegian people want, and it is breaking with the goals of Norwegian food production that the Stortinget has established in the past. Therefore, the Labour Party believes that the data must be returned to the negotiating table. One must initiate a new dialogue with the farmers and present a new and better agreement according to Storting's intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1892	I thought I would start my post on the basis of the ski flight history. In 1986, the FIS decided that lengths of over 191 meters were not to be measured. This was the case after the World Cup in Planica in 1994. Then so many had jumped over this length without getting the point for it, that the rule was removed too well. This has a certain degree of transferability to agricultural policy, but here the rules have remained up to this day, despite a raging development in agriculture, a development not driven by political decisions but by knowledge, technology development and skilled practitioners. Agriculture has been characterised by short-term knowledge, where research and development have been implemented in a close relationship between the research environment in Ås and farmers who would use the research results. This has given us bigger crops, new cultivation techniques and better livestock producing more, and it has helped keep production up despite the decline in the area. For one who has lived for a while, has been born on the farm and has grown up as a farmer there, it is only to give way over the development that has taken place over the 63 years that have gone by – from hand milking to robotic milking, from horse and cart to tractors, from self-winding and threshing to harvesters, from versatile operations to specialisation, from many hands to few hands, from a soothing life to loneliness, from being a job for many to becoming a part-time job for the few, with substantial income from other work. Most municipalities had their own dairies. Today Akershus and Oslo produce 1.8 pst. of the country's milk. The main challenges for agriculture are certainly many, but I would like to mention three important elements: Recruitment: When young people choose a profession, agriculture loses, at best agriculture becomes an additional industry. Many choose to rent out land and use the farm as a place of residence. Social challenges: the need for holiday and leisure is far more important today than it has been. I have noticed the debate about schoolchildren who got embarrassed when the holiday experience was being shared. This was also the case before, but then we were several in the same boat. Cost growth: When requirements for animal welfare, environmental measures and other requirements come into place, many people fall short because they cannot afford to invest in the necessary equipment. In Planica, you measured the lengths. World records were experienced. I'm going to say that the farmers have taken the lead in the development we've seen in recent years, and the policy we're now putting up is to bring up the policy at the level that farmers already are, just that now everyone is going to get the reward for the effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1911	Food production is the world's most important profession. No one manages without food, besides, good food is good. Whether we want to or not, the situation internationally also affects us in Norway. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change warns that there will be a scarcity resource. More hunger, climate change makes it more difficult to produce food, and it makes us in Norway not only have a right, but an obligation to use our land resources to strengthen food production to satisfy more people. The centre party believes that in order to achieve the objective of increased food production and agriculture across the country, better incomes for agriculture need to be ensured. There must be an income policy that makes the farmer better paid for the food produced. Differences in income must and must be reduced. There is a great need for upgrades and initial investment in both operational buildings and land. I know that from my own county, Nordland. The Centre Party therefore considers that a separate 10-year investment plan and a package should be established for the entire agricultural industry, together with a non-taxable reserve scheme to achieve these objectives. This settlement is very little suitable for increasing Norwegian food production and ensuring a living agriculture throughout the country. To it it has a profile that is very district hostile, one moves the production from the districts to the central struts, even after the attempt of the Left and Christian People's Party to draw it in the right direction. It's negative not only for North Norway and the Nordic countries, but for the Western countries and a number of rural communities where there are good land resources to produce food. Increased self-sufficiency can only be achieved through the use of land resources throughout the country for food production, not for development purposes. Finally, increased self-sufficiency is important both in a national and an international perspective, which I started with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1920	If not the direction this settlement points out, is stopped, I believe it will threaten agriculture as we know it today. It's about a farm based on family farms, where one has one or more productions on the same farm, it could be cows, pigs, potatoes, cereals, sheep or alpaca, for that matter. It's such an agriculture, a multiplicity of family farming, the Center Party wants, with large and small uses. There's been talk about the very large uses, and it's going to be directly linked to efficiency. But it's not like there's some automation in that the biggest uses have the most effective ways to produce safe and clean food. Nor is it that very high use is the best way to limit antibiotic use. The representative Heggelund was in here talking about animal welfare and jumping straight for controls. There is not a number of controls that will determine animal welfare; there is probably so much a question of what kind of structure you have on agriculture. I also have to correct the impression that is created, through several articles, that this is a good settlement for the farmers on the Iron. No, it's not that there's joy in this settlement among the farmers on the Iron. There were as many of them in the lawn outside here and demonstrated as there were farmers from other parts of the country. It must be strange for those who have been sitting in the gallery and listened to this debate. They've heard so many fine words, and then they know that the result has been so skinny. It shows that there is a choice for the Christian People's Party and the Left. They could have chosen a different course. They could have gotten maybe 0.5 billion. kr to the table, another profile, by choosing a different majority. They chose that away. So short to the story story. If, over the period 2005–2013, one were to have a percentage equal to income development, a figure of DKK 70000 would have been below current status. I also want to encourage the opposition to decide: are they going to criticize the red-green government for nothing, or are they going to criticize it for being a big structural development? Criticism is a good thing, but they have to decide: what was the problem with the policy we pursued? A new agricultural notification has been notified. There is no doubt that there will be new uncertainty in the agricultural industry. I think that agriculture at least deserves to know how long this uncertainty will last. In the meantime, one thing the Council of State has called for is to comfort itself that at least growth conditions are good. Because I think it's more to pick up from Springlord than it is in this farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1941	In addition to the fact that this is a debate on the agricultural agreement, there is also a debate on the 2014-2015 Repurchase Agreement with amended appropriations for the State budget for 2014. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the review of the referral of a joint committee, and use the opportunity to highlight a few points. The Committee’s comment on the inclusion of mechanisms leading to higher slaughter volumes, thus taking the industry more into the direction of ecological sustainability, is important. That's required. There is also reason to point out that there are still challenges in the relationship between pasturage and grazing grounds and that this will be followed up. Some try to create uncertainty about what we want, what is left's course in agricultural policy. I think there can be no doubt that we have steel focus on agriculture in terms of the environment, climate challenges, soil protection, animal welfare, recruitment, research and development. There's multiple points too, but I'd like to draw these forward. This is at the bottom of us when we're going to have agriculture across the country, even in mountain areas and in steep fjords, that we'll also bet on those who want to do combined use, as much as those who want to do on a larger scale. From the debate so far today, I feel even more confident that we have made a good deal of the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, but at the same time stress that it was imperative to make the changes we made with the Christian People's Party. It was necessary to put certain conditions in place, not least in order to strengthen the small and medium-sized applications.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1952	Where I come from, on the North Jären and on the Jären, is a place that is popularly called the Norwegian food barrel. At the same time, it is a region with the highest percentage of population growth in Norway. It creates enormous pressure on the use of good food for housing, nutrition and infrastructure. What many people don't know is that we in Rogaland are big on different agricultural productions. For example, a single pawn in the Sun stands for 10-15 pst. of all cucumber production in Norway, and Finnøy alone accounts for 35pst. of all tomato production in Norway. The overall objective of the Labour Party's agricultural policy is food security, agriculture across the country, increased value creation and sustainable agriculture. At the national meeting of the Labour Party in 2013, we emphatically confirmed the need for strong soil protection. We want to maintain self-sufficiency at today’s level – that is, with the population growth we have, we need to produce more Norwegian food. We need to ensure the development of income in line with other occupational groups, and we want a stronger protection of imports. This is in stark contrast to the Progress Party and the Right's wishes with its proposal for agricultural settlement. We're talking about short-range food, and it's also good for the environment. We're talking about niche production, we're talking about active farming is the safest guarantee that the cultural landscape will not grow down, we're talking about an agricultural policy in terms of food security, and we're talking about using the whole country – where agriculture may be the most important regional policy instrument we have. Before Erna Solberg became prime minister, she promised that the import protection they would do something about just becoming prime minister. Furthermore, she promised with great enthusiasm that agricultural aid would be reduced by at least 2 billion. kr. The farmers would get more for their food, and the customers would pay less. Does it sound familiar? Ida, it actually reminds us dangerously of their original proposal. So she can at least say in one area that she's tried to fulfill the election vows, it's just so sad that it's in this area. I believe in a living agriculture throughout the country. I believe in active soil protection, I believe in short-range food and in further development and more knowledge of how to run good agriculture. There is a great deal that threatens the existence of the agricultural industry. Something is common regardless of where in the country you are, and something has local peculiarity. In the Iron Age, population growth is a major challenge. There are also blue politicians building up cultivated land instead of taking the land that they could take. We're concerned that the areas in the county with the greatest potential for use by nature are the same areas where there is considerable pressure to convert them into housing and industries. This can be seen, among other things. in the north of the Jären and Jären, and we in the Workers' Party are clear that we need to put the whole country into use, see the contexts and pursue a long-term and clear agricultural policy, where large, medium-sized and small uses have an important role, and where we see cities and countries as a whole, and that we ensure Norwegian agricultural policy and the Norwegian farmer. That's not what this offer is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1969	There has been a long wish for simplification in agriculture. This is expressed through majority comments both from the previous magnification and also from the current magnificence. In the previous government’s big message on food and agricultural policy, the themes of simplification and management were devoted to a whole chapter. But unfortunately, it not only helps to write about the need for simplification, one must also dare to do something about it if there is to be simplification. One might slowly ask himself if there is anything to venture. When a person enters this type of activity to look at simplification opportunities, he touches on a system that has been built up over many years — where industry has been very pervasive. When one then addresses the question of simplification, it will affect many people who are currently working in agriculture. Some will lose on a simplification, while others will earn on it. For this reason, a certain portion should be used to start a simplification process within a industry as well as agriculture has been and has been. I am proud that the Progress Party has a government council that is showing the courage to start a process of conversion, which the former governments have largely rewritten, but have not followed up in line with their statements. There is now a real need for a comprehensive reconversion of this important industry for the country, which will also be sustainable in the future. With this agricultural settlement, the government has promoted a total of 29 simplification proposals, and I am pleased that almost all the simplification proposals are passed on after the negotiations with the government's supporting parties in Stortinget. The agricultural settlement agreement prioritises the increased and more efficient production of food throughout the country. The aim is to stimulate agricultural policy to increase food production with a view to increased self-sufficiency, while ensuring the production of other social goods such as cultural landscapes, travel and scattered housing. The change of agricultural policy that the government has begun and has already made good progress in presenting this matter should be an inspiration for young people who can think of a future in agriculture, as one suggests that living alone in this industry should be possible – without having to do additional work elsewhere to get the ends to meet. Those who don't want to change or don't dare to face the consequences will always claim that this change almost doesn't matter in this context. In the same way, you can take suggestions on a proposal and end up with no simplification. With this agricultural settlement, there is a price change that will be the best for agriculture in Norway and will inspire innovation and optimism in an enterprise that will continue to produce a substantial part of what our country needs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e1990	I come from beautiful, varied Valdres, and every year thousands of tourists come to visit there. They spend money and create a basis for many jobs in Valdres. But the beautiful cultural landscape that tourists from all over the world come to see has not come of itself. It is the result of an active agricultural and forestry policy. So for us, agriculture is not just an industry that produces safe and good food. It is also a cornerstone industry that is important for local travel and business. This is not a unique story of the importance of agriculture for a beautiful mountain region in Oppland. The truth is that agriculture is the bearer of many of the communities in our long-term country. That is how I want it to continue to be, but the blue-blue government wants a different course in which rural policy should be decoupling from agricultural policy, how little use is cut because the big ones need to grow, and where centralisation and liberalisation threaten housing and food security. The right side talks a lot about simplification, but we've heard it before, and – I'm sorry! It's not always credible. We heard that women should be made easier by introducing reservation rights for a few doctors. We hear that employees need to be made easier because they have to work more and earn less. And now it's the farmers' turn. They must be given a simpler life by removing good grant and welfare schemes. It's almost not to believe. I haven't heard anyone from the right-hand side explain in a credible way how farmers will get it easier by losing hundreds of dollars, and by getting an unpredictable future when the early retirement scheme is removed. These are bad measures, and they don't get any better by putting them on a list and calling them simplifications. Another simplification measure by the government is to remove the system of local management of the rural development funds. In Valdres and Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, we have had the pleasure of having over ten years. It has triggered an increased involvement of the agricultural industry and several investments with greater faith in the future. Now this scheme is to be centralised with a pen stroke. Let me just add that it's a paradox that tomorrow we're going to hear representatives from the same parties talk about moving tasks closer to the population, while today they're taking them further away from the population. In Norway, people live everywhere. We use our natural resources well and take care of the cultural landscape. These are unique values that we have to keep. Norway therefore needs the farmer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2001	On 18 February this year, the Norwegian Rein driftssamer Landsförbund and the State reached an agreement on a new reindeer management agreement. I am pleased that through good negotiations, we reached an agreement where the main objective is to develop the reindeer industry as a rational, market-oriented industry that is sustainable in the long term. For me, it is important that the different industries are as far as possible able to stand on their own feet. The negotiated nutrition agreement for reindeer management contributes to this by facilitating increased slaughter and value creation by individuals. Furthermore, the agreement provides for the continued organisation of the main reindeer operators. This contributes to a strengthening of the nutritional aspect and also to a strengthening of the position of reindeer in society in general and in relation to other land interests. Purification is a land-dependent industry, and an orderly reindeer with a healthy economy provides the basis for understanding and acceptance by others for the needs of reindeer farms of different characteristics over the year. We've been up for some time now in a process of reducing the reindeer in parts of Finnmark. As a new Minister of Agriculture and Food, I quickly became aware that these are demanding and complex processes. However, these are processes that are absolutely necessary to ensure the reindeer management of these areas a continuing basis of existence. It is nature that is the main premiscuous supplier of reindeer. We've seen over a number of years that an excess of purity and scarcity of pasturage leads to a struggle for land, where reindeer farms are exposed in a way that removes it from its starting point and gives it a bad reputation. I have been and will continue to be very clear that, if the proposed reduction in the number is not implemented, the authorities have to put power behind the requirements through the provisions of the Act of Sanctions. I'm glad I have the clear support of the committee here. Furthermore, the scheme of the clean-up agreement has also been designed in such a way as to have an excessive clean-up effect in the context of grants. With the clarification that I have now had with the Minister for Climate and Environment on the shortening of predatory game replacements at an excessive reindeer, to which the Committee also expresses its support, there are many elements that can now move in the same direction – towards a reindeer that is ecologically sustainable and thus provides the basis for viable reindeer management societies. In parts of Finnmark, which have had challenges for many years, we also see that reindeer management in other areas can easily get in the shade. It's a shame because in many places we see a vigorous reindeer with many good examples of creativity and nutrient development enriching the communities they're part of. That's the kind of reindeer we want – a reindeer that, with its unique form of expression and production of amazing reindeer meat, has its natural place in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2010	Attack is the best defence, it is often said, and it can, of course, characterise the speeches of the Right-wing Representatives in the debate today. Completely unaffiliated by the reactions of an entire industry and completely unaffiliated by its own members who resign, all of them are the faults of everyone else. It may be convenient, but I agree with the representative Pollestad that at least one has to decide whether it is wrong that nothing has happened, or whether it is wrong that too much has happened in the years before. Many of the pages have been debated already, I want to draw up just one point. It is the fact that the Council of State gets the most out of it, namely the structure. It also bears the great responsibility of the Christian People's Party and the Left. When you look at the setting, there's not a complete match between words and reality. Everyone has said here today that the whole country is going to be used. Food production is to be increased and maritime supply improved, but there is not a complete match between words and reality. For this year's agricultural settlement, a clear shift is shown. It shows a clear shift in agricultural policy and a change in thinking about the whole structure. The most important measure to maintain a varied use structure, to provide more food production, and to ensure that the whole country is put into use is that one can operate agriculture even where it is steep, where it is soft, and where it is cold. In other words, we have a division of labour in Norwegian agriculture. It's not sustainable to drive miles to transport feed and dung between the feather and the fences. Therefore, farmers must be able to have fewer cows per deer in the West and in fields than they have in the East. These are simple contexts; there is a logical division of labour in Norwegian agriculture. Without that division of labour, the East, parts of Rogaland and Trine layers produced from milk and power-feeding productions based on imported feed would. In the rest of the country, there would be a long way between uses in the long term. Such a development does not provide agriculture throughout the country, such a development would not give rise to increased food production, and that is where we also have some of the structural issues on which the Council of State is unfortunately allowed to continue working. The problem of the Christian People's Party and the Left today is that they do not consider the outcome based on what they could have achieved based on their own program, based on the majority in the Stortinget, but that they are assessing their victory today based on what they have reversed from the worst results of the Right Party and the Progressive Party's policies. Unfortunately, this is a very defensive line. I believe in the Council of State when she says that this is the beginning of a necessary change in course, and the sad thing is that the Christian People's Party and the Left have arranged for that change of course to start here today. Something has to be done in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2027	I always like carrots, but I don't forget the first time I tasted an organic carrot. It was like the crunchy extra much, was fresher in color and tasted very good. I'm not going to go into a debate about what's best of conventional and organic products. The size has set a target of 15 pst. food production and consumption shall be organic in 2020, and that target is repeated by the Storting today. My concern is about how we are going to achieve that goal and the content of the goal. So then back to the carrots. The carrot rubs on the top of the eco when Bama draws up accounts for 2013. The sale of organic fruit and green increased by 37 pst. last year - a nice number. The sale of organic carrots had an even greater increase. And now in February Bama sold 80 tons of organic carrots in a week. It was a new record. This growth is in line with the developments seen in organic consumption in recent years. We agree that growth is good, but where does growth come from? Three to four years ago, we had overproduction of organic vegetables in this country. This page has only increased demand. At the same time, there has also been a reduction in the area of organic farming. The result has been increased import. Jens Kaas in Gartnerhallen could report that they were empty for Norwegian ecogul roots as early as January this year. From then on, Norwegian consumption was based on imports. One could say that the ecological self-sufficiency rate has thus declined. Therefore, Stortinget should notice what Debio and Oikos, say, the organisations that know organic Norway best. During the hearing, they pointed out that conditions had become very difficult for farmers wishing to convert into organic farming. The right-wing Party government gave the worst possible starting point for the year’s settlement: the government’s original offer contained a cut in the important ecological development funds from 32 million. NOK 20 million. kr. This testifies to a lack of understanding of the challenges of organic farming. And -- I fear -- it testifies to the fact that the new government does not have the same commitment to reaching the 15 pst. goal. The Left and Christian People's Party saved in again 10 million. kr, but despite this increase, the majority today adopts an offer to cut organic development funds. It's the wrong direction to go if we're going to put the actual content of the Storting decision on the 15 pst goal. The working party is committed to facilitating measures to stimulate conversion to organic production. This is the production that consumers will have, these are the schemes that manufacturers will have. So we don't want anything cut in the development funds. Shall we achieve the goal of that 15 pst. for food production and consumption to be organic in 2020, the objective must be followed up by concrete measures. In the future, the Workers' Party will closely monitor the government's work in this area and, in particular, challenge concrete action and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2050	Social violence Vedum from the Central Party criticized Vidar Helgesen for his trip to Brussels to clarify his European policy. That's what I thought was a little weird. So it's like the Right and actually a multiple here in Stortinget want a functioning customs protection, not just for food policy in isolation, but for the whole nation as a whole. It means that there is a multiple in Stortinget, whether they want to take it with them or not, that customs protection should be assessed, if necessary. In fact, the Christian People's Party has also confirmed it from the pulpit here in this Chamber. So we have to bear in mind that, under the Central Party, its Minister of Agriculture – during that period – we are increasing the imports of agricultural products by 90 p.m., or 20 b.m. kr. The Norwegian part of the feed was reduced from 67 pst. to 55 pst. So the imports that they feared, they've been at the head of themselves. Arnstad and Pollestad ask what we in Right really mean, whether we are some or not in that they have achieved structural changes, etc. I thought it was nice that the policy they were pursuing brought about the necessary structural changes. What I'm criticising is that they haven't been able to increase food production without the structural changes that happened when they were in position. I think it is very special that they – the Center Party, the Workers' Party and SV – led a policy as they had the government power and put in place, which they are against today when they are in the storeroom and are in opposition. I thought it was very special. It seems to me that they are cheering up the mood of both farmers and people most. I don't think anyone has discovered their double morals, and what has actually happened in the eight years of Norwegian agriculture when they put in power. We must not forget that the farmers used exactly the same slogans out in the streets this year just outside the Storting here, which they used in 2012, when they were also here and marked. Then we had a government with a central government council. The slogan then - he can find pictures of - was: The government is ruining agriculture. It was just the same slogan they used this year, so there's no big difference about this, but they should probably admit it. I appreciate very much the developments that have been taking place, but I want to take it further, so that we can increase food production out of this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2061	There is a great difference between the agricultural situation last year and the agricultural situation this year. It's just listening to the industry seas, you'll hear that this is an agricultural policy that is now taking a whole new direction – a direction that agriculture doesn't want. I understand that the Right and Advance Party will have it, and the aim there is to save money, while the objective should be to produce more Norwegian food for satisfied Norwegian consumers. I have thought a lot about what makes Norwegian consumers happy with the food. I think we can never win competition on price and volume in Norway. We don't have any assumptions for that. But we can compete on quality, on environmental friendliness and on animal welfare. Then you have to do what you can to get it done, so that it becomes the big advantage so that you can strengthen that alliance between consumers and agriculture. There has been a significant range of local food producers that offer raw materials and stories that travel life also needs very much, for which we need to strengthen. It may be used as a competitive advantage. At the same time, some new markets have emerged where they are traded – the Bond's market is one of them – but there is also direct contact between producers and some market channels in shops, for example. It's important that we also manage to strengthen this. Perhaps you can imagine that there is also a need for more small cooperatives in the future, such as construction dairies, rural slaughterhouses and smaller producer cooperatives. In sum, this is not small. But it has to be done in such a way that it does not disappear, and it probably takes some internal rounds in agriculture to avoid conflicts with the major cooperatives. But I believe that this is important, because if we are to follow the wishes of consumers, and we are to be able to achieve the great diversity that Norwegian agriculture today has, which can become even greater, and which is demanded, it is important that we strengthen this. Then we can also say with our hands on the heart that this is healthy quality food, which is traceable, and which has stories behind it. It is important to strengthen food production throughout the country. With regard to the proposals that SV has made, we have tabled proposal No. 7, which is about forest. This is because we see the need for more forest planting, and we want a support scheme for it, but there must be support for wood that is native on the ground and that does not pose a risk to biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2076	When I listen to SV's Karin Andersen and see the suggestions that SV comes with, I see that there is a clear split on the red-green side. I feel that the Workers' Party and the Centre want to keep the Agricultural Institute running, but see that with the proposals that SV brings here today, they don't have the same respect for it. I think this has been a good debate, which shows the great commitment it is for Norwegian agriculture. It is also a historical debate. There are no proposals today for large cuts that are being made, and I believe that I share in giving a future threat to those who are farmers in Norway today, and seeing the possibilities ahead. I'm not saying that there's necessarily a blurred sky, but there's possibilities ahead. This is an industry with an productivity growth of about 6 pst. There's a conversion going on here that's very good. There are many industries that could envy agriculture just the positive change that we have seen over a longer period of time here. I would also like to thank you for the many good words that have come, including: from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party to the Left and Christian People's Party. I have noticed the words of Storberget and Pollestad. But I couldn't help but notice Martin Kolberg's greeting – a greeting saying that the Left and Christian People's Party was almost run over by the Council of State. Then I'd like to remind you of Geir Pollestad's words. He said that Listhaug is now parked in agricultural policy. It is difficult to see that both parts can vote – that one is parked and run over. Geir Pollestad has experience from the Ministry of Transport, as State Secretary there, and may have the greatest trust in such a question. What I feel is that Martin Kolberg is actually doing here, is he's going to undo a little bit of the words he came in 2012, when the Left and Christian People's Party were standing ahead of what kind of cooperation we're going to take. Then Martin Kolberg said that red-green plural rule was the only option, and something else was just nonsense. It is a very contrast to the reception we have received from the Right and the Advance Party, which has seen how important agriculture is to the Left and the Christian People's Party, which was involved in increasing the framework, which was involved and saw that we had to keep important changes in the structure, that we had to keep the negotiating institute, and not least that we had to ensure agriculture throughout the country. No one is happy today, but I can proudly see that the Christian People's Party has taken the responsibility that the voters gave us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2091	I am thinking about how to ensure the recruitment of young people into agriculture, which the Minister says is also busy with, but still takes away one of the things. the incentive to co-operate. It should still be possible, but there are no separate rules for co-operation anymore. In order to recruit young people, both I and the Labour Party think that leisure time for those young people is important. Then good triggering arrangements and incentives for cooperatives are actually a good idea. If a company is active, a few more work hours can be arranged – something that I think young people are busy and need. Co-operation should also be rewarded. So in the rules we now have, our right-hand quota cap for those who are operating together, but otherwise. I think that we may be able to change the regulations, but if it is useful to operate together, at least it has to pay off. I also see that co-operation is helping to make agriculture more efficient. I therefore call on the Minister of Agriculture to re-examine the co-operation, when she is going to deliver a report on agriculture, which she has warned here before today. I've been following the debate all day, and I've heard a little strange comments from the Right and the Progress Party on the Workers' Party's involvement in agricultural policy. They may then have forgotten that in the period 2005-2009, the Right Party and the Advance Party proposed to cut off the entire agricultural agreement, and in parallel with that, the Progress Party proposed to cut 6 billion. NOK 12 billion. kr that went to agriculture, and Right 2 bn. NOK 12 billion. kr that went to agriculture. I am happy that they have come up with a little better thoughts. Nevertheless, I thought it said a little about the government's agricultural policy, when 5,000 farmers stand outside here and say that they cannot live with it. I think it is good that the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left has given a slightly better result. Nevertheless, we in the Labour Party are concerned about both structural changes and the incomes of the farmers. The Minister of Agriculture thanked the Spring Lord for both the weather and the crops before today. In the Labour Party we believe that we should pursue an agricultural policy that provides for agriculture, independent of the Lord of Spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2105	I'm going to comment on Mr. Hareides' posts, but I want to say something else first, because I don't want it to go away. There is a lot of worrying about the big lines of this debate. That shows the debate. We have not heard one legitimate argument to remove this early retirement scheme. Why do they do it all over the world? No one has tried to defend it, because it is probably very difficult and very demanding. In my thinking world – which sometimes can be quite acute – it is that removing such pension schemes from parts of the population, without arguing for it in the hall, cannot be an expression of anything but a desire to drive a certain disassembly of welfare schemes. I don't understand why they do it, I don't think they should do it, I don't think the government would suggest it, and I don't think the partners would agree to it either. It is completely unnecessary to do so, and it is wrong for the agricultural population to do so. Then I've told you. When it comes to what Hareide said, I understand that it can of course be a little sensitive. I'm going to say that at least I didn't mean it as Hareide perceived it. It may be my fault, but I don't think it's just my fault, because this is probably a little sensitive. What remains is the following fact: The council that sits here is placed under the administration of Storting – simply – for the first time in a very long time. It was absolutely necessary because she proposed something that was contrary to the agricultural policy of the majority of the population. Then it was absolutely right to do that. The fact that the Christian People's Party and the Left went into it the way they did was good. However, despite this, the government and the Council of State have got through the important issues, which are about the structural development of agriculture, which is the most serious. This must be the responsibility of the partners. It's a very honest, honest and straightforward thing. There is more money, yes, but it does not help when Councillor Listhaug gets through this structural change, as she has suggested. That's what we're attacking, that's what we're saying, but that doesn't mean that the Christian People's Party and the Left have done otherwise is not good. Moreover, it is finally a new feature of the parliamentary situation that we are now experiencing in this matter, and that we are going to experience on Thursday, when the control committee comes up with its issues, on price control, among other things, where there is a great deal of interaction between the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party – and everyone else – but where we are not going to adopt what we are going to do, because of course it has to do with the parliamentary situation. There are partners under pressure, but it is quite obvious that the government only continues its policy, regardless of the majority of the population. At least the length of time will not be up to the Workers' Party – it will be up to others to stop it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2118	The agreement reached on 28 May between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left on agricultural production is important, and I take this very seriously. It says, among other things: where: ‘The Parties stress that the negotiator is firm and that it is essential for future settlement not to undermine the Institute. Future settlements should follow common practice by joining the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's proposal on agricultural settlements and not being the subject of negotiations in the Storting. The Parties agree that the offer made by the State for future agricultural settlements should be in line with the indications underlying the suspension of this year's agricultural settlement. [[...]] This is central, because it is something that concerns our framework for the debate. I would also like to quote from the article «May Free to Ap» in the daily newspaper of 21 May, where the journalist has written the following that State Council Sylvi Listhaug has announced that she will send the government's offer to the agricultural organisations to the Stortinget. I quote: ‘If the Storting takes the case this year, the agricultural negotiations may subsequently appear as ‘toy negotiations’, while the power has been transferred to Stortinget’. What is this thing? What is the basis for this realization of reality? I would like to remind you that the Constitution § 75d reads: «It is for the Storting to grant the sums of money necessary to cover the expenditure of the State.» This agreement contains appropriations for the State budget. The fact that there is a different view of the use of money is more common than uncommon – it is quite natural in a democracy. In NOU 1998:10, the main agreement for agriculture, reads on page 20: «Section 75(d) of the Constitution entrusts the budgetary authority of the State to the Stortinget. As it is currently being practised, the main agreement can be said to regulate, on important points, how the decision of the Enlargement on appropriations in the fields covered by the established contractual system is to be prepared.’;» – Very precise in relation to the relationship between the Main Agreement now, 1998 and the Constitution. It's a little bit familiar, but this is the fact. The reason for the breakup this year was that the parties – the state and agriculture – were so different from the will of the Storting. Therefore, the will of the Storting must be clarified, so that a person knows the basis on which to negotiate. There's some of the whole problem we're up against. And the veils that I've pointed out – it's said very well, something else is wanted – it's no wonder that there's going to be conflicts. Let's have an open debate on what we want with Norwegian agriculture. The industry has the primary responsibility to say what it wants, and then we'll see what we elected to follow up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2150	There has been no lack of black paint on this settlement, and in particular I find it unreasonable to claim that small uses should lose on this. I, who is from the north, will give some examples that the settlement is relatively good, in relation to both small farms and farmers in the north: where a dairy farm with 24 cows gets NOK 8 300 in income development on average, a use of 23 cows in North Norway NOK 17 400 in growth, where a use of 153 sheep gets NOK 10 400 in income development on average, gets a use of 155 sheep in North Norway NOK 12 700. The right is satisfied with the settlement of the year. It ensures increased profitability, increased food production and increased recruitment. This also applies in North Norway. In the agricultural settlement of the year, agriculture has an income growth of 5.25 p.m., which is far more than other wage groups. We must not forget that Norwegian agriculture has fundamental challenges that have evolved over time, and new approaches are needed to secure the future. Member of the Balsfjord Farmers' Association – and also leader of the Balsfjord Workers' Party – Odd Ronald Nilsen, has expressed himself as a private person that this year's agricultural settlement means that many in the north come in positive. He calls for a new policy to ensure future-optimism in the sector. If we do nothing, the negative development we've seen over time will continue, he says. He says, «In Balsfjord we have 60 farms today. Studies conducted by Tine suggest that we will be left with 30 uses in Balsfjord in 10 years’ time.” And he continues: ‘As I see it, we actually have to go through a change in agriculture, we are going to maintain and preferably increase production and profitability in agriculture.’ - Smart words from Balsfjord. And the story gives him the right thing to do. Now this country has been governed by a separate agricultural policy, historically. Even the Senterpartiet has closed down 6,000 farms since 2005. They took over with 50,000 farms, and in 2012 the figure had fallen below 44 000 farms. I am pleased that the cooperation parties are taking action and in the agreement has said that ownership and the conditions under which farmers operate are important. Property regulation is part of the whole of how it is possible to run profitable in the future. It is therefore appropriate to abolish price controls and accommodation. I think it is positive to be able to read in the Workers' Party's programme that we are asked to go through this law. So my question is, if the Labour Party at this point can actually put into practice what they mean – what changes to these laws, price control and housing obligations, are they going to do something about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2178	This has been a bit of a special debate to follow up on, because everyone agrees – that agriculture is a very important industry, that we have food security and security in the industry, we all agree. But it is important in politics that when one sees that a policy does not work, one actually has to take the steps needed to be able to renew and improve it. I think most people initially agree that today's agricultural policy has not been successful; it has significant defects and shortcomings. One thing – as consumers notice – is that we have low and poor selections. We know that under the red-green government a total of 9 200 uses were dropped, we know that the import of food has increased by 90 pst, that the border trade has increased by 8.7 billion. kr – this has happened at the same time as the subsidies have increased – and that we have increased use of customs protection. I think this illustrates that today's policy has failed. One also hears it a little in the debate here today, because the husband of low faith in the farmers and agriculture that you hear from the red-green ones, I didn't think you should hear here today. Many people are sadly talking about agriculture and farmers, but both I and the Progress Party have great faith in the farmers, we have great faith in agriculture, because we know that Norwegian farmers are good people and are unemployed, who every day want to provide the best possible production for all of us. Then I am pleased that we now finally have a government that wants to set the farmer free, who wants to let farmers use this creativity, the innovation and the ability to develop their niche for themselves, and then I am pleased that the changes that the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug stood up for, are essentially being adopted here today, and that the policy is not being conducted in the office of Knut Storberget. I don't understand either that the Centre Party and the Red-Greens can be so afraid that the government is now getting through 26 simplification proposals – I think that's good, because we have to have faith in agriculture and the farmers. Now we raise and remove the roof that prevents the farmers from producing what they actually can, and what politicians are asking for. We are now strengthening the possibility that more people can be full-time farmers, and it is also positive for animal welfare, by getting farmers who can be present, because I have more faith that the farmers themselves know best how to run their own farm than that politicians and bureaucrats should overrule the farmers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2189	The negotiations on a new reindeer management agreement were concluded with an agreement on 18 February. The agreement involves financial measures in the reindeer industry of more than 111 million in total. NOK, which is an increase of 2 million. kr in relation to the agreement in force. The negotiated agreement provides a basis for the continued positive development of the reindeer industry, with which the centre party is satisfied. The agreement also underpins the spin-off we have had in recent years in the instruments of the reindeer management agreement, with a more nutrient-oriented focus and an organisation for the reindeer operators with their main activity. The Centre Party considers this to be important. The main objective of the agreement is to contribute to the development of the reindustry as a rational market-oriented industry that is sustainable in the long term. The central party believes that the use of resources in an ecologically sustainable way is a prerequisite for the industry’s existence and legitimacy. Therefore, the purity has to be adapted to the resource base of the grazing areas. We have noticed that the contracting parties have considered it important that the agreement should give particular priority to measures contributing to the increased slaughtering and placing on the market of reindeer meat. The centre party believes that the industry has a high potential for increased value creation through its particular products. So to the agricultural part of the agreement. Unfortunately, the agreement that is being adopted here today has neither a framework nor a direction to implement the decision to increase food production in the country. The framework, and not least the dramatic structural changes, will make it impossible to operate agriculture throughout the country. It is suggested that only high use will be economically viable to maintain operation. The government's policy will lead to small-scale farming of land. Norwegian food production will decline, animal welfare will deteriorate, and climate emissions from agriculture will increase dramatically. That government parties want such a development should not surprise anyone. It fits well into what seems to be the goal of social development: to move people from the districts and into cities as quickly as possible. What disappoints me very much is that the Left and Christian People's Party supports this policy and even sells it in as a strengthening of rural agriculture. The truth is that there is a decline in income and a structural change that has dramatic consequences for rural agriculture, and in the next round for the housing structure in the country. I can take some examples from my own home country. Many can't afford to buy a quota to operate exclusively with milk production, and combine it with sheep. Use which combines several productions and which is thus not ‘large enough’ for the current government within some of these productions is severely affected. These are full-time farmers, but they are not full-time farmers as defined by the Council of State. What is today considered to be widespread use is becoming too small for Listhaug. For example, in the Middle Gauldal, 90 of the dairy farms have less than 26 cows. Most of the uses are severely affected by farming. The government does not know where these uses are located in the landscape and they do not take into account the fact that precisely these uses are the supports of Norwegian food production. If they are combined into large units, there will be huge transport distances for both fertiliser and feed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2204	The government has broken the agricultural industry, and the agricultural sector has been submitted to the Stortinget. The right-wing Party government’s expressed desire is to impose a major centralisation and structural change in food production in the country. The agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left does not change that. The current attitude to agricultural policy will make it less profitable to operate grassland in the West, which is distributed in small areas. The consumption of grain for livestock, i.e. forage, will increase, because the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left Subsidies feed. This will result in additional self-sufficiency in Norway. Government's agricultural policy is a threat to Western agriculture. Milk production and sheep farming are subject to all changes that strongly favour use with large production volumes, which are largely absent in the West. No one should be surprised that the Right Party and the Progress Party promote the agricultural policy they have opted for. But the representatives Knut Arild Hareide from the Christian People's Party and Terje Breivik from the Left, who are elected from Hordaland, are now responsible for the future of Western agriculture. They can't be blamed on the government, because both Hareide and Breivik could form multiple numbers for new, bold grips on agricultural policy along with the opposition to the Storting if they had the will. The centre will fight to increase the self-sufficiency of Norwegian food by increasing plant production in Norway and will also fight to ensure that the income gap for other groups has to be narrowed. We know that today's working pay for a normal Western agriculture is about half of that an average wage earner's income per hour. With such a large revenue gap, the consequence is obviously recruitment failure. But who cares when this is intentional? Not the government, which proposed a budget cut of 250 million. kr, not the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is probably content to zero out this budget cut, and not the Listhaug, which presented an agreement that for the great majority of Western peasants meant minus. She made it quite clear when she cried out in Eidsvoll's place on 20 May: A wage increase should be calculated as a percentage. The peasants answered silently. Perhaps French Marie Antoinette was met in the same way when she cried out and asked why not the sold people in her country, who lacked grain and bread, could only eat cake instead? Agricultural policy is a social issue. For the job, workers are needed. The size must show solidarity with the silent peasants in Eidsvoll's place. One should not give to the big ones by taking from the small ones. It must be profitable to produce food on ordinary Western Guards. Farm business is about more than dollars and cents. It is about reversing developments and making it profitable to increase the agricultural area in operation. It's about important values like food security, animal health and the way our country looks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2221	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good job and for a good cooperation. Also thanks to the representative of Pål Farstad and the representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen for the respectful negotiations we had. The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, said that there was a great responsibility on the Left and Christian People's Party, who had pressed through a new agricultural and forest message. What the representative Schlagsvold Vedum knows about this, whether this was a claim or an offer, I do not know, but at least the undersigned know a lot about it themselves. But I agree with Mr Vedum that a message is not a target, but only a means. But it's an important means, a means that tells us something about a future. That's why groceries messages are important. For the Christian People's Party, this is linked to the strategic choice made by the big group this fall by placing us as a constructive opposition party and not in a majority government. We want, as the position we are discussing today, to encourage, to increase food production, to increase self-sufficiency, to take care of a differentiated tool and to facilitate increased value creation, sustainable nutrition and recruitment. There is an overall committee in different configurations that says something about it, and this is also important for future agricultural policy. Then I share Mr Pollestad's view of structural intervention and the structural debate, that there are important and major changes that can happen if the county milk quotas fall away. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not want any drastic changes to these, because it will change the Norwegian model that we have today. It will change the emphasis on what we are going to produce in the West, East and North respectively. The Christian People's Party has an agricultural policy that says we're going to use the resources where they are. That's why we also need a farm structure that is adapted to the different resource bases, but also to the topography we have. It is important for the Christian People's Party. At the very end: I think we have had a good debate today. We've pointed to inequalities, we've pointed to similarities, but we're all busy moving forward. I think the contributions that have been made to recruitment, research and development are important contributions to creating confidence in this important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2234	The representative Geir Pollestad gave me a little visit in his post when it came to animal welfare, and said that some of the tools we want to use to improve animal welfare are not good. But I find it a little difficult to be taught by a representative from a party who definitely got the worst out of the union of which parties are good at animal welfare, in the election campaign last year. This is an interesting debate, and I am a little surprised that representatives from the red-green parties are trying to present their own policies as a thunderous success. It wasn't. Or it might matter a little bit about what you mean by success. If approx. 9000 lost use, reduced agricultural area, reduced cereal area, reduced self-sufficiency, reduced number of uses of milk production, reduced plant production — all of this — were meant to be successful. But everyone knows that's not what they tried to do, it was just their policy that didn't do anything better. When we know that's what the truth is, I might be down-prioritizing my need, if I were a red-green representative, to be so incredibly high in the hat. In the past and in this debate, the Labour Party has boasted of its own agricultural policy platform. But a good delivery gel in terms of boasting must be that you have something concrete to boast about. If you go through the agricultural policy platform of the Workers' Party, you won't find very many concrete measures. The vague, on the other hand, shines at us. We'll actually find something, let's just say that. On page 14 it is said that you will ‘work for the establishment of cereal stocks’. But then there is a report from the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research that shows that cereals stocks do not increase security of supply. In fact, such regulation can, it says, ‘weaken market actors’ motives for their own risk management’. But this has already been said by the Labour Party in its agricultural policy platform that it makes sense, and I wonder if this is something the Labour Party is going to give priority to in its budget. It would be a funny priority, but at least it would be something concrete. So I hope we get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2245	I want to say a little about the reindeer management agreement. Red meat is an arctic delicacy that consumers demand more and more, and the Workers' Party is aware that we are developing reindeer management policy based on the three-part objective of ecological, economic and cultural resilience. It is positive that the back-up schemes premium production, right-hand slaughter volume and increased value creation in the industry. The farm must ensure the necessary area and the clean figure must be adapted to the grazing basis. This has to be taken seriously, and it has to happen in a fair way. Here, too, there is a great responsibility on the practitioners to reduce the number of pure. It is good that emphasis is placed on establishing rules of use for common grazing in the districts. And then the reduction of area for different good purposes also plays in and also the predatory problem. Everyone has an interest in and has to take a responsibility for getting back to life. Lucky one, it's a win-win situation: right-hand slaughter value, better quality and an ecologically viable industry. So back to the agricultural settlement. The supporting parties must pay attention to the fact that they have taken on a great deal of responsibility by selecting a page in which, according to their own programmes, promises in the election campaign and expressed policies in the management of the agricultural message have not been agreed. The worst thing about this year's supply was and is structure. In Norway, we have had a logical division of labour, one around our many countries has had a lack of tools, just to have an agriculture all over the country. So I have noticed that the question of how to get enough food for all the big uses is not being answered. The problem is not to build a big enough feather. For example, all milk production in the municipality of Hyllestad is similar to what the government wants as a single use, 1.2 million litres. But no one will find it practical or economical to travel around the entire town of Hyllestad to get enough food to collect. The representative Karin Andersen and others have made more bold attempts to clarify what we can expect until next year's announcement. The answer from the representative Foss did not come, and the representative Ørsal Johansen said they would fight for their own programs. Yes, it's just waiting for the government to come forward. To the Christian People's Party and the Left, at least I can say that the Labour Party is also at the next crossroads. You are allowed to choose another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2262	I would say it has been a very interesting political debate to follow. It is not every day that we can say that it is a historic day, but it is actually with this debate. It is historical because never before has the Stortinget so thoroughly put an agricultural minister in place. I say that on the basis of the statement by the representative, Mr Hemdal, on which I base the understanding of the Central Party's understanding of the change they have made in the agricultural agreement. There are no parties voting in favour of the government's proposal for an agricultural agreement – it is particularly historic – because there are so many here on the Stortinget that are committed to maintaining the negotiating institute. That's why it's a long shot to do what the centre parties and opposition parties are doing today. But one has seen it as important because the proposal that came was so obviously contrary to the stated wish of the Storting for future agricultural policy. That's why it's historic. When one sees it in the context of, as the representative Kolberg said, the Council of State attempts to change the rules for the pricing of agricultural properties without going through the democratic path via the Stortinget, we stand back with a Council of State that is largely unenforced by the Stortinget. But that is precisely why there is now so much responsibility on the Christian People's Party and the Left – so I am basing the Christian People's Party's understanding of the agreement – that that policy is actually being followed up until we can get a new agricultural message to discuss in the future. What we're talking about here is a crucial time – we're talking about a crucial time for food production in Norway, we're talking about a crucial time for the farmer's future and income opportunities in Norway, we're talking about what Norway is going to look like in relation to landscapes, and we're talking about the degree of food supply we're going to have. It's just to travel across Sweden's borders and see how big political questions we're really talking about. Because of a completely different agricultural policy, including, for example, and rural policy in general, Sweden is a completely different country from Norway. We want to establish a policy that keeps us living and doing business all over the country. Then it is important that the Christian People's Party and the Left ensure that the intentions are also followed up, and that the Minister of Agriculture cannot go further against the will of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2273	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2277	I understand that it falls the representative Hareide heavily to the chest the criticism that has come today, and the recognition that the reconciliation they have made is not good enough, when he accuses SV of dealing with the negotiating institute. After the government ran the negotiations in the ditch, SV invited to broad cooperation in Stortinget with the entire opposition, where we could send the proposal back, put some overall framework and e.g. retained the device from last year. It rejected the Christian People's Party and the Left to be on. So the Christian People's Party and the Left of the Storting enter into detailed negotiations – far into the negotiating institute – here in the hall, in the house here, and present it. Well, then it must be allowed for other parties to present proposals here in the Chamber, find solutions here in the Storting, when the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties do the same sail.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2284	As mentioned many times today from this pulpit, the government will strengthen agriculture through simplification, regulation and support mechanisms, by removing restrictions that prevent the efficient use of single-use capacity, by focusing on research and development that creates new products and increases profitability, and by having a high focus on the environment and strengthening animal welfare. The majority of the Committee would like to see an environmentally friendly, sustainable and forward-looking Norwegian agriculture with both large and small uses across the country. It also facilitates the growth and growth of all production without prejudice to those engaged in small and medium-sized applications. Therefore, the regional subsidies in the agricultural agreement are not affected, they are at the same level as under the government of Stoltenberg. The majority of the Committee agrees to strengthen use that has a resource base for full-time use, while maintaining a varied use structure throughout the country. It also facilitates increased food production and a simpler instrumentation system, where it is easier to verify that the subsidies are paid in line with the objective. An overall committee indicates that there is a broad consensus that Norwegian agriculture should have a differentiated structure of use and that it should have a differentiated structure of use. 234 S for 2011–2012, inter alia: it reads as follows: ‘The Committee will facilitate a varied use structure that takes into account both traditional family use and allows for different forms of cooperation.’ This shows that this government will not frustrate either agriculture or rural agriculture, rather the opposite. We will make adjustments and simplifications that can give optimism, create profitability and secure jobs in the industry into the future. I would like to thank the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for their good and constructive cooperation in the negotiations. I would also like to thank the Committee and all those who have been sitting and listening to the debate here today; thank you for a good debate. There was a lot of thanks, but again: thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2300	There's a slightly special agricultural policy day in Stortinget in many ways. One might ask, what is it really about this day? What is the political document actually about? Is it about simplification, about courage and action, etc., and about releasing the farmer? In my opinion, it does not. This is primarily about what may be the most important changes that will take place in Norwegian agricultural policy for many, many years, it is about a will and political motivation from those who have promoted the starting point of this document that the Storting is now dealing with, and that is the structural changes. And these are the structural changes, or the removal of the structural concepts, which are, of course, the very clear driving force of the Progress Party in agricultural policy. That's the big goal: an unregulated industry. That's what one should kind of relate to when one looks at the structural grips that have been done. They may not seem so dramatic, but it is clear that they will mean a significant difference over time. It is clear that what is happening in the United Kingdom today is a significant attack on rural agriculture. There is a significant change in the jewel of rural agriculture, which is milk production, in what is now proposed. And it is clear that over time it will dramatically change Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian food production. It will be that the smaller, marginal uses in District Norway will disappear. The resource base has not been designed to enable them, even with stronger support, to compete against the greatest and best of all areas. At that time, some of the foundations and some of the very clear political leadership in the agricultural communication, which is in fact the last policy objective adopted by the Storting in the case of Norwegian food production, will be confused. Then, too, some of the other quality — outside food production — in Norwegian agriculture will disappear, just the quality that we can travel around our country and see that there are lives in Norwegian villages, and that there is drifting use around the country. That's what's the great moment of tension in the continuance. Is it such that the ideal of the Progress Party will be allowed to shape Norwegian food production even more in that direction, against the unregulated agriculture where one is impoverishing the districts, or has the Christian People's Party and the Left at this crossroads said no to the Progress Party at least for this four-year period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2311	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2314	A short explanation of vote from the Central Party: We support the decision to I, we oppose II, in favour of our own proposal, and the Senter party will not support the proposals of the SV and the Green Party on the Environment. The representative Hareide was on the theme if the council was parked or not. Let me then stress that our view is definitely that the Council of State is parked. But does that mean that we believe that the Left and Christian People's Party has achieved is good enough to ensure increased Norwegian food production and agriculture throughout the country? No, it's far from good enough. So what we're talking about here is a parking lot, but it's also mostly a fault parking lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2321	This is a historic day in which we have reached a good agreement between four parties. Everyone is not satisfied with everything, but all parties have got through things that are important to themselves. And for the government, it's a historic day because we're getting through the biggest simplification steps ever implemented in the history of the agricultural agreement. We get important structural changes that make farmers decide more, and that the state will decide less in the future. There are many reasons for the changes we are now making, but what this is about is to ensure a forward-looking agricultural policy in which we are to stimulate young people to find opportunities in this industry. It is an industry that is in competition with educational disciplines that provides higher wages and more leisure time. We know that many young people are in the election: Should I travel in the North Sea and be free for a month, or should I bet on the farm, earn worse and have very little freedom? If we're going to make them do the last thing, it's going to have to change in the direction that we're doing here today. If full-time consumption starts to decline, the big ones, who produce a lot of food, then we're on wild roads in Norwegian agriculture, then Norwegian consumers will notice that because we don't manage to produce enough. What we're going to do now is launch production, and it will also stimulate increased production. Questions have also been raised about early retirement schemes. It is a special arrangement for agriculture. The chosen government to remove priority. It has now come back into the agreement, and we can live well with that. I've had a focus on simplification. The representative Botten said that a sheep is a sheep, it had discovered the Progress Party, but the fact is that such a system has not been a sheep. Because you've had the sheep that go out all year, and then you've had the sheep that go in the winter and out in the summer, and for these sheep, which are really the same, you've had two different subsidy schemes. We're doing something about that now, so that a sheep becomes a sheep. This is an example of a code that should have been cleaned up too far, but which we are now addressing. The representative of Eldegard was involved in cooperative ventures. Thinking that we want to go back to a law that allows no more than five farmers to go together, which makes farmers more than 17 km away from each other not to be allowed to work, I think is completely unreasonable. I also think it's unreasonable that if you go in business together, you need more subsidies than if you're a single farmer who produces the same thing. Equal production must provide equal subsidies, and we must stimulate increased food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2336	I understand that the Right now has decided that some things have actually happened. It was not stagnation under the red-green, but there have been some things, according to the representative Trellevik. He says that what's happening now is a further development of it. So the council says on its side that this is the beginning of a change in course. Then we are left with a little bit of the double communication that has really shaped this debate, where the government parties say different things, and where, as I see it, one also actually uses a kind of new word. One uses the established concepts of small scale, and then puts something completely different into it -- if one at all puts something into it. One really hasn't gone into it and said something very specific about what it really means in some areas. I believe the Council of State on what she's referred to in the media, that this is the beginning of a course conversion. That's when I wonder, how far should the course be changed? What is the direction in which it should go? We have got some signs, but it is a serious and important question that must remain after this agricultural debate in Stortinget: What changes are we going to see in the future? I believe that the industry also deserves to know how such a conversion or change of course should be. A shopping message can clarify some of it, but a shopping message can also catch. There may be a little bit of what is the challenge for the Christian People's Party and the Left, that they are careful to get caught up in something that is a more long-term and extensive change than that year's agricultural settlement represents. In this way it was good to hear that the Christian People's Party makes it clear that, for example. the distribution of milk quotas shall not be abolished. It is an important clarification – and a completely necessary clarification. Indeed, we have experienced in the past that family farming has changed to more industrialised agriculture. Denmark is the clearest example of this. Denmark was actually the cradle of family agriculture once in a while. Today, Denmark is left as the crown example of the full-time agriculture that the government wants. What agriculture is that? It's a indebted agriculture. It is an agriculture owned by banks and pension funds, which increasingly takes over and owns the land, and allows farmers to run it on leases. It is far from sustainable agriculture in terms of neither food safety nor animal welfare. So we can use the opportunity to look at that agriculture a little bit and look at how it has evolved over the last few years. The central party believes that pursuing an agricultural policy based on different forms of production in different parts of the country and on small and large consumption is a policy that will eventually tear down Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2351	I also believe that there has been a good debate, including some clarifications. What the representative, Mr. Hemdal, is now bringing to the fore in terms of milk quotas is a very good example of what direction we are moving in, and how important it must be for both the Christian People's Party and us to at least try to knock down some poles that help us not to get a development that we can't turn around. It is said, especially from the Right, that bets are to bet on those who want to bet. What is it about not investing in those who are small and medium-sized, when we need them as much as we do? What makes those who are small and medium sized not bet? The structure profile we see in this is not really an argument to bet on those who want to bet, but to bet on those who want to bet big, and who are today big. There's very little recruitment potential right there. So I've registered, especially from the Right, that attack seems to be the best defense. Farm organisations are accused of operating with ruling techniques, and the Workers' Party is accused of destroying the negotiating institute. I feel in such a way that we are in good company with those who get accusations in this debate. I absolutely need to say the following about the Workers' Party's play in January: I am very happy that we came along. How would it be if we were to give the guarantee in advance, that we would accept the state's offer, when we know the story of the Right and the Advance Party, with significant cuts? That's one thing. But how would it be if we made such a guarantee in January, taking into account that there is not one party in this room that supports that offer today? Should we sit there alone and support the state's original offer? That would be pointless. If there really is someone who has contributed to abandoning the tradition of putting the state's offer to the ground and voting it through in the Storting, it must be the parties that have created a majority today to actually add up to 250 million. kr. It was totally inappropriate for us, and I just want to inform the representative Gundersen that until next year it will not be relevant for us to give any guarantee on it. The negotiating institute itself is not sacred. What matters to us is what comes out of it. But there is a strong tradition that you want to keep it and base it on it – yes, it is. But we don't want to see a negotiating institute tear down important bearers and introduce major structural changes in the negotiations, making Norwegian agriculture unrecognizable. I hear that Gundersen refers to Kaggestad, which he heard on the radio, and then they would let creativity and madness go. But after hearing the representative, Gundersen, I would strongly warn against an additional release of madness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2368	Both the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have pointed out in the debate that the Workers' Party would be a much better option for the Christian People's Party and the Left than the government is. The representative, Ingrid Heggø, even said that the income gap would be reduced by the Labour Party's policy. She has no cover to say that. The representative of Storberget has not previously been willing to estimate the income growth of an average farmer, with the structure of the Workers' Party. When the Workers' Party is more concerned with overcoming the Advance Party at cheap food prices, and then using the agricultural budget to correct the errors in climate policy, the money is spent on other things than increased income for farmers. If one is kind with the calculation of the Workers' Party, they have the same max for distribution to small and medium-sized applications as it is agreed and which today have the nicknames decoration, puzzles and other similar words. It puts the representative Storberget's posts right in front of me in a little artificial light, when he is so concerned about small and medium-sized applications. When the Workers' Party's economic structure is at a level with the agreement, I would so strongly doubt the central party's great belief that the Christian People's Party and the Central Party would have a majority for their primary position in the Stortinget. Today, we have seen that SV will then doubt the negotiating institute through the arrangement they have set up, with a working party that will rather have lower food prices, with an environmental party that will double the target prices – and then we have a center party that wants everything to be where it has always been. With this hindrance, I cannot see that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party would have a majority for their primary position, although it is now gratifying that the Central Party clearly supports the Christian People's Party in the goal of reducing the income gap between farmers and other groups. I believe that we will be able to do through the work we can do together on Stortinget. So neither is the Christian People's Party very pleased with the result, but we are satisfied with the insights we got, which were important. What was important for the Christian People's Party is also important for my own region – Sørlanden. The figures are clear that small and medium-sized applications will improve significantly in this settlement compared to the offer. It shows the calculations for the reference users. It's especially important for Agder, because we have a scattered structure with relatively small usage. Then the Christian People's Party and the Left had not managed to fix this, probably much more of the earth in Agder would have gone out of production. We have facilitated greater predictability through this settlement, which I have great faith and expectation of in ensuring recruitment, which is absolutely necessary to increase food production – which the four parties are clear that we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2383	I actually think we should discuss Denmark if we have a case about Denmark and we have Denmark present, so that we know what we are discussing. When Marit Arnstad brings Denmark in, I almost see it as a sign that you have run out of arguments. At least she should have observed that Denmark is topographical, geographical and in a number of areas quite different from Norway. But this is a bit symptomatic in the debate. We have heard a strange debate, in which the red-greens are most concerned about attacking us for their thoughtful outcome of our policy. They say they are concerned about self-sufficiency. The results of eight years of red-green policy are that the level of self-sufficiency has fallen quite dramatically. So you say you're busy recruiting. The results of eight years of red-green policy are that the average age of the Norwegian farmer has increased by at least two years. You talk about farming all over the country. Ingrid Heggø was concerned that Hyllestad should be an example of limitations for the rest of Norwegian agriculture. It seems that no one should be allowed to see opportunities, because the town of Holle has certain limitations. It is a remarkable approach to a debate. The fact that you stand on the pulpit in Stortinget and decide that farmers should not be able to see the opportunities is quite remarkable. I would like to commend the Christian People's Party and the Left for going into the debate and ensuring that a platform for agriculture has also been established – based on what Hareide was about. We're going to start seeing the possibilities, and we're going to start giving opportunities to those out there. It is quite remarkable when Dag Terje Andersen and many others say that the Minister of Agriculture is separated, while there have been posts after posts that point out that the structural changes are so dramatic that you almost tear everything up. This doesn't matter – to say it with a farmer's expression. At least you have to decide for a message. As Stefan Heggelund said, if the structural changes also went their way with the red-green ones, you should be honest and say that's the way you wanted it. But you keep talking about that you want the opposite as a result. Then you can't call it a success story. When your own policy has shown true opposite results of what you really wanted, you can at least admit that unfortunately it didn't go exactly as you had hoped. As I said in the main post earlier, we now have an agricultural minister who is quite honest about the objectives. We dare to talk about changes in front of us, and the farmer has perceived it too far. The farmer is very good at taking the changes, and now we bring the policy near where the farmer is actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2408	Today's debate has, in my opinion, clearly shown the need for this industry to modernise. Conservation and the questioning of framework conditions that provide for record decline in active farmers are the legacy of the red-green ones. I would also like to remind you that there were 5,000 farmers standing outside Stortinget and filled up Karl Johan with equipment and tractors when they fell red-green in 2012. Why? Yes, because they were greatly displeased with the offer they then received. It is strange to register the Workers' Party's proposal to the Christian People's Party no. It stands in stark contrast to Kolberg's rhetoric a few years back. Kolberg was not alone. I can also remember the party leader in the Left, Trine Skei Grande, who in one of the closing debates in the previous period concluded that not one proposal from the Left – not one proposal in eight years – was accepted by the red-green. It says a little bit about the hold that time. Now is a most busy point of responsibility one has, a responsibility that I believe falls equally to us. The Right Party and the Progress Party have a strong, clear and focused policy for an industry that many people are engaged in, and a Council of State with a backbone and a will to implement it. I have to say I'm proud to be on the team with Councillor Listhaug. We all think of another basic industry that depended on significant subsidies, namely the fishing fleet. Today, after major structural changes, this industry is going well without major public support. No one thinks of going back to the way it was. Now I'm going to be clear that I don't think it's possible, and maybe not desirable, to run agriculture all over the country without any support. But we have to allow the industry itself to develop with the benefits this can have for the individual practitioner. We also need to get a structure – for those who want it – to get a form of operation that gives the practitioners a structured working day with decent leisure time, as most people have. We know that the young people who are going to be recruited into the industry absolutely want to do that. I am very confident that this Minister for Agriculture will do so. I only want to close Listhaug until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2425	The representative, Ove Bernt Trellevik, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2428	It was claimed by the representative Marit Arnstad that there was a double communication between me and the Council of State. I will strongly reject that. It has been a major structural change over many, many years, and it is being carried on. But what is the big change – the change in price – is that those who want to produce more food will be allowed to do so. It's in this way that a capable of increasing production in this country. That's what the big price change in the budget we're dealing with today – not necessarily the structural change, I'm going to say. This is a continuation of policies that have been pursued for very many years. But the fact that the big ones today are allowed to produce a little more does not mean that all farmers are going to reach the ceiling – what is possible in production – that is in the budget. These are opportunities too few, but we are still going to have an agricultural policy across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2435	The representative Knut Storberget has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2438	I'll try to clear up something after the post of the representative Robstad of the Christian People's Party. I also believe that the representative Hemdal was interested in something of the same in his main post today. In the context of the negotiations here in Stortinget, the Labour Party has suggested that the financial framework should be increased by at least 450 million. kr. Very familiar, there's not so much math skills to do, there's something more than 250 million. kr. So you have money at your disposal. At my discretion it is not right that it is eaten up by any adjustment of the target price increase on fruit and green, which was described as populism by the Christian People's Party. It's not. If you go into table 6.5 on page 48 of the proposal, it turns out that the value of the target price increase is approximately. 63.1 million. kr. We think it makes sense to look at some adjustment of it, but it does not eat up at all the room for action that any arrangement with the Workers' Party would have had. At my discretion, there would be good effects of such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2447	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2450	I understand that the representative Trellevik, like the Council of State, wants a change of course. There's some of what some of us think is very problematic, because there might be a change in course with structural changes that might turn out to be completely irreversible. I took the floor because of something the representative Ropstad said. It is seaworthy to be free, but when the representative Ropstad said that the Central Party finally agreed with the Christian People's Party's wish to close the income gap, I must be allowed to come up with some facts. One fact is that the agreement to be voted for today by the representative of Roupstad will increase the income gap. The option that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party have – we have got figures from the Ministry – will reduce the income gap. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will not vote for it. I might be able to accept that and understand it today, but there are probably more possibilities. If the Christian People's Party is really concerned about the income gap, I would encourage them to keep it in mind for next year's agricultural settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2461	There has been a relatively long debate with a lot of exchanges. The big question that I have a little trouble getting to grips with this debate refers back to an article in the class struggle – an interview with Knut Storberget’s representative. It says it was Knut Storberget's representative who directed agricultural policy from his office. Based on what I have heard the representative say here in the hall today, he has done a very bad job in the years that have passed. It is certainly not the representative of Storberget who is now running agricultural policy, at least it is quite obvious after today's debate. Much of what you've been talking about today, and more people have asked questions about, is where the simplification that you've been talking about is. There are many simplification proposals that the government is basing on. Governments have been in on a number of them. One of the most important tasks we have in the years to come is, among other things, to clean up the subsidy jungle in agriculture. This is very inconspicuous; there are a lot of different measures and schemes that you can apply for. It's very hard to figure out how each one works, just based on the individual farmer, based on what structure you have, based on what you produce up to the area, and not least on what the bonds you actually have. This work has been started by the Council of State, and it is very important to continue this particular work, so that simplification is put in place. I've heard many of the red-green politicians talk down Norwegian agriculture. I'm proud of Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture produces high-quality products of high quality every day. But it's a little strange that we, as politicians, pick out one industry, and then, as politicians, we have to set limits on how much we can produce. When we as the magnification and authority can sit down and say that you just get to produce a given number of liters of milk, and besides that production you don't get any money for it, or say how many kilograms of meat you can deliver to slaughter, then it's time for a change in agricultural policy. We have to take care of those who will actually evolve to be able to produce more food. We are asking for more food in this room – that is what has shaped the debate. Then it's very strange that politicians in this country are limiting how much food is going to be produced. It's going backwards into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2474	When I wanted to take the word again, it was the post from Gundersen that was the reason for that. When we from the Center Party are so concerned about the course of the Progress Party and the Right, it is because he rocks the cornerstones of Norwegian agricultural policy. He is rocking by what is the basis for small and medium-sized applications to operate in western and northern Norway. It has been shown to be the development of many of the representatives. But I wonder what will be the evolution of the number of uses in production with Right and Advance Party government and a policy that has given way to the policy of centralisation in agriculture. Then the representative says that the farmers have discovered this, and that they are adapting. Yes, they'll probably discover it and adapt. But if it were true that the farmers had been content with the offer, it would have been an agreement with the Bondelag. It was a crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2483	The representative, Ingrid Heggo, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2486	I found it disappointing that the Christian People's Party does not see and take over the redistribution from the small customs to the large ones – this reversing Robin Hood policy that one is actually involved here today. There are many questions without answers. What are the incentives in the agricultural agreements concluded for small and medium-sized enterprises? No one from the government has mentioned it. What are the recruitment measures for small and medium-sized enterprises used here? No government party has mentioned. How should a sufficient amount of feed be obtained for the large uses? No one in the government party has mentioned it. In conclusion, I would like to say that the image I used about Hylsestad is a good example of the fact that it is impossible to obtain enough food for those who are used by the government to make a new contribution and to convert it into a major use.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2496	In my post I ordered that the price control and the obligation to live should be lifted. It's very simple, because property regulation is part of the whole thing and makes it possible to run profitably. That's why the point at the end of my post was that I challenged the Workers' Party on what their policy was in this area. It was actually some positive moves to track in the Workers' Party's program, and I'm therefore going to take the time to quote from it. It says: ‘There is a need to assess whether current legislation and practices are adapted to the current situation in industry and society. This applies to soil law, concession law, odelslaw and problems surrounding tenure land. Adjustments must facilitate the provision of space for interested young people/persons in the industry.’ In the light of the debate we have had here today, and the speeches by representatives of the Workers' Party – Storberget and others. – I have to be allowed to say that I miss a concrete statement from the Labour Party on what it really means by its political programme, and what action is to be taken to ensure the development that we have seen that the agricultural sector has been facing in recent years. Could it be that the leader of the Balsfjord Workers' Party, who is a member of the Farmers' and Small Farmers' Team in Troms, and who wears the shoe – he is speaking as a private person – knows what it is like to drive? When he looks into the glass ball, can he be worth listening to and asking for advice when to sneak out the future, also for the Labour Party's policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2508	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2511	It was this with worries – I would have been much more worried if we didn't soon start taking any action. It is not that – and the Christian People's Party and the Left have understood – that the little ones are disappearing. No one wants the little ones out. There are still strong incentives for the small ones, but it is a little less unfavourable to develop a slightly larger operation and also stimulate them, such as: has over 50 cows, a little bit. It's not like you're taking away the incentive for small drifts. What I've also tried to say is that the farmer is incredibly nice. He has shown an enormous ability to use technology and improve, and an productivity growth that many can envy him. What was the point of the previous article was that the policy has largely been countering this. Finally, we are beginning to make a little reality of the policy, and I think that agriculture should be pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2520	My purpose was not to extend a debate that has been going on for too long, but I realized that I was going on a bad toe when representatives Storberget and Arnstad needed to make a post afterwards. The representative Arnstad thought I was free. It may be I was free, but my point was only that the Christian People's Party has repeatedly made proposals in this Chamber to reduce the income gap, proposals that have been voted down. With this settlement, we notice that the tone is different. I can understand that, because that was my second point, namely that I do not believe the Labour Party is as good in agricultural policy as they would appear to be. I think that might have been the challenge for the Central Party in the last period, that the Workers' Party did not go as far as they are now – obviously. There I believe that the representative Storberget is not able to answer my point, and that is that if you think 450 million. NOK 250 million. It's $200 million. NOK, and then it was over 60 million. kr used up on target prices. We also know that the Workers' Party wants to strengthen the grain economy and reverse cuts in climate and environmental measures, and they want recruitment measures. There won't be many millions left for small and medium-sized applications then. So my point is really just that the Workers' Party is not as much better than the agreement that we agreed on. That was my big point. After summarizing the debate and following it all day, it's actually an important point to raise. We succeeded in caring for the negotiating institute, which was important for the Christian People's Party, and we managed to get a much better structure, which was also essential for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2531	When the representative Gundersen says that no one wants to remove the small ones, it is rarely historyless and rarely knowledgeless for someone who has followed the debate here for many years. Swallows should be used away – not small ones; now there is a lot of use to go away. So to the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, who says that a demand for more food: yes, that's good. The question is how to produce food – are you going to produce food on Norwegian soil, or are you going to produce on foreign land? That's the old question that's still up to date: Do you want to use plough cold, or do you want to use a ship's keel? If you are to bet on food security, you must bet on the Norwegian soil. If you are going to bet on the Norwegian soil, you will need to improve the earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s earth’s soil. Then we're talking about ecological understanding, and then we're going to have to turn the investment from operating buildings to soil. New cultivation, digging and improving soil culture are fundamental to what many have said they want. There's hope if one goes in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2538	Several have not asked for the floor, and Case No. 1 and 2 have been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2552	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2566	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2575	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on this matter. It is not unnatural for a divided position to be attached to such a proposal, as this reflects some of the most central political disagreements in the health debate. I expect the various parties to explain their views, so I will carefully explain the SV's proposal and why we vote as we do in this matter. There are few areas of health policy where SV and Right agree, but at the elections Bent Höie announced new times in one field. It was said in this way in the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 September 2013 by Erna Solberg: «As we have a national transport plan for transport, we should have a national health plan for hospitals.» And in the same newspaper, the same day, Bent Höie said: «There will always be torches, but now the torches will know where to go. They can address their own politicians at Stortinget, who with our model will be responsible for the decisions.’ This is impossible to understand in any other way than that the Storting will have much more power in terms of the most important decisions for many of our residents, namely, where in the country there will be hospitals, and what kind of functions it should be normal to have on something called hospitals. Now we're getting new signals. Now this no longer means a ‘national transport plan’ for hospitals. Now, there are only completely overall leaders to be given, and we are at risk of getting the worst from two worlds – the far too strong power of the bureaucrats in today's system, which the Workers' Party has unfortunately for far too long defended, combined with the Right's new model, where public hospitals are being laid down in the districts, while private clinics are being set up at the heart of taxpayers' bills. Next year there will be a national hospital plan. It should discuss precisely the issues raised in this proposal for a representative of the Central Party. In such debates, it is a very common oral cavity in Norway that we should ‘decentralise what we can and centralise what we need’. But is that what we are doing in Norway today? No, now there is a lot of point in the direction that we instead ‘centralize what we can’. We now see this when the Minister of Health accepts closure decisions related to emergency functions in Rjukan and Kragerø. We see it when local hospitals in Flekkefjord, Kongsberg, Kongswinger and other parts of the country are threatened. The situation in Telemark right now is a situation to which Stortinget cannot turn its back on. The hospitals concerned are hospitals that are cutting well in terms of patients’ responses to their satisfaction with the services and in terms of medical quality indicators. There is a strong commitment to the maintenance of hospitals, and there is a professional disagreement as to the appropriateness of the reorganisation that the Minister of Health has accepted. I believe that this is a fateful hour for local hospitals in Norway. The government statement states that closures of emergency and food services will be stopped ‘if patient safety and quality are not justified’. But what kind of reorganisations are those that are not justified by patient safety and quality? What the government has done is to open the door wide, so that anyone who says they do this for patient safety and quality can get through to reorganisations. But now it is clear that the Telemark hospital is obliged to save money, and there are major questions about whether that is what motivates these reorganisations. This means that it would be wise to take a ‘timeout’, as it is called in good Norwegian, and postpone these processes until we are actually going to discuss the overall direction of Norwegian hospitals in a hospital plan next year. The Health Minister took responsibility for these closures yesterday, and that was commendable, but the Storting must also take responsibility. It will be incomprehensible to people in Telemark and others who are concerned about the future of local hospitals, about what is a majority in this hall of parties who say they are critical of the Minister of Health's decision, not have the power to gather about a majority who also oblige him to make that decision. That is why my challenge today goes to the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party: if they vote against the proposals that are being promoted today, they cannot continue to criticize the government for the decision that has been taken. Then they must be involved and take responsibility for it. SV and the Central Party are promoting two new – quite concrete – proposals on the situation in Telemark today, which I would like to encourage all parties against closure to support. With that, I take up the suggestions that SV has made in the vote, and the two new proposals from SV and the Central Party that have been distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2607	Then the representative Audun Lysbakken has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2610	The issue concerns the management and development of Norwegian hospitals, and they should be safe, provide good treatment and be accessible to the population throughout the country. I agree with Audun Lightbakken as case rapporteur in two things: I think we have to – as we have done – centralize when we have to, but move tasks out when we can, and that has also been a long way on the way to the tone in recent years. But I also agree with the Lighthouse that this matter is also about today, are the expectations, the leftover impression, that the current Minister of Health and the Right created before the election. That impression is not expressed after they won the choice. They won a message and a starting point, so they won the elections, they took the government offices, and on 5 May, the Minister of Health wrote to the Stortinget that now the Stortinget will only adopt general principles and not govern the details of the tasks to be performed in the individual hospital. He now believes that the Storting should take more overall decisions, while the service must be able to carry out the necessary development work on the basis of local needs and assumptions. This is confusing like the system we have today, and that Bent Höie strongly criticized before the election. The problem is it's too late. The expectations and hopes that things should be completely different are created. People get disappointed when you're faced with something, and then you get something completely different. You can criticise the Workers' Party too much, but we stick to what we meant by government, even today. Our starting point is as follows: Organising hospitals in health businesses and regions is not an objective in itself. It is an instrument for achieving overall policy objectives. Equivalent healthcare across the country was the main reason for the transfer of hospitals from the county to the state and health regions. Overall, I believe that it has contributed to a better and more equivalent health service. Let there be no doubt: we believe that the objectives of the hospital sector must be nationally anchored, but at the same time have a clear regional and local anchoring. It has also produced many better results in recent years. For example, a few years ago, we were treating heart attacks in almost every hospital in the country. Now we're dealing with it in six hospitals. The results have become much better: people survive much more than before. Given this, we believe it would be wrong and irresponsible for us to vote in favour of a proposal or any other proposal that would in effect put a stop to plans, innovation and conversion in Health-Norway. It leads me to the most acute part of the debate: the decisions on the emergency functions of Rjukan and Kragerø, which the Minister of Health has confirmed. The development plan for the Hospital Telemark has been adopted, and we will not review it on a failed basis here in the Stortinget. It simply doesn't have the Storting assumptions. We are not presented with any decision-making basis, and therefore the Storting cannot decide on the matter, given the governance model we have. In addition, such a decision could jeopardise other major improvements and investments in Telemark. I believe the government has acted critically at several levels in the matter: Item No 1: They anticipated that this kind of decision would be lifted into the Storting if they won the election. That's how you create expectations, and that's how you make choices. Item No 2: The Minister of Health has acted too passively on the ongoing process. Item No 3: The Health Minister has not passed on to Health South-East that the Hospital Telemark should have time and economic space to find good solutions in a difficult transition, as we in the Workers' Party would have done, if we had managed Health-Norway. Item No 4: The Minister of Health has not been able to provide security for the population in the areas concerned as to what is left in the hospital, and what alternative emergency response is needed to replace what disappears. It's not hard to understand the despair of Rjukan. This, of course, gives dramatic results for a community like that. Given what so far has not been followed up by the government, we do not feel safe on the process further. We therefore propose that the government come to Stortinget with the state budget for 2015 and make it visible how the Hospital Telemark should be able to find good financial solutions, and that they have a plan of concrete measures and money for how the government sees the alternative emergency response to be continued in the affected areas. I say it outright: If the government does not deliver concrete improvements and satisfactory answers to what we are asking for in our proposals here today, the Labour Party will not sit still and look at this. I would therefore like to stress that the Minister of Health's decision on closure will be assessed in the light of what the government itself proposes in the State budget. Against this background, I would like to address the proposals we have submitted today, and the proposals No. One, two, four in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2652	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2655	Everyone has an opinion about hospitals, and everyone is concerned about their local hospital. It showed the demonstration outside the Storting yesterday. It's an expression of how important it is with safety and our health. It has been more than 10 years since the State assumed responsibility for the specialist health service from the county municipalities. During these ten years, a national overview has not been developed to ensure how the specialist healthcare service can meet the needs of the future and provide security and predictability. It is necessary to provide the Stortinget, which grants funds for treatment, research, education and buildings, with an overview of the future needs and investments planned. This is the justification for the government’s work on a national health and hospital plan. It shall enable us to plan a healthcare service with the capacity and competence to meet the needs of the future. The plan shall draw up the general principles for development which provide the basis for local decisions. The plan is to be submitted to the Stortinget in the autumn of 2015. The proposal of the Centre Party will guide the development of Health-Norway from Stortinget in detail. It's an intrusive idea to decide different offers at the different hospitals from this house. What is the real competence of the Storting to determine the details and development of local hospitals? I will mention three examples from the time of the red-green government when there were conversions that neither the Stortinget nor the minister intervened in: Acute surgery at Røros Hospital was collected at St. Olav's Hospital. The food department on the lake was converted into a feeding room. Larvik hospital’s emergency functions were moved to Tønsberg, and they are now performing day surgery. Stensby hospital was laid down. Retail management, as the Center Party wants, will deprive the Health-Norway management and directors of the possibility of conversion and therefore also of development. Conversion is intended to provide patients with a better quality of service. It is intended to provide better patient safety. With the proposal of the Centre Party, many processes in health businesses in Norway will be put on hold. This applies to large investment and new construction processes – which many have been waiting for. Not only will it be expensive – you also put an end to completely necessary new investments, whether there is a new psychiatry building in Sørlanden Hospital, a new hospital in the West Viken in Buskerud or a new children’s and youth centre at Haukeland Hospital. I would like to remind you that under the red-green government many necessary changes have been made. A whole of 13 hospitals have been affected, either by the closure of food supplies or emergency services, or by the hospital being closed down. This government has said that food and emergency services should only be discontinued if there is insufficient quality of service. Future quality assurance and robust emergency services are the reasons why the Council of State has decided that the medical emergency function of Rjukan and Kragerø should be discontinued. The decision has created unrest, local involvement and frustration. However, it is important to stress that the Council of State has said that Telemark Health Companies should renew and update their plans for prehospital services. Prehospital services shall have the required quality and capacity before the emergency response is completed. This is what's important to clarify. The entity has been explicitly asked to ensure the quality of the prehospital services. The decision shall ensure the necessary development of two robust emergency hospitals, Notodden and Skien. Together with good prehospital services, these hospitals will provide citizens of Telemark with a better quality of service. There should continue to be specialist outpatient clinics and day-care services in Rjukan and Kragerø. The current hospitalisation was largely determined according to needs over 100 years ago. That time it took quite a while to move from one place to another. Therefore, all treatment had to be done at the local hospital. That's where you could most of the time a little bit of everything. But medical and technological developments have gone rapidly. We are treating patients for diseases today that were not treated 5-10 years ago. However, such treatment requires highly specialised competence and work on interdisciplinary teams. A lot has changed. Today, we're going from one part of the country to another in a mere hour. Helicopters and ambulance planes have made the country shorter. Prehospital services have evolved from being the pure transport of sick people to being highly specialised treatment of patients during the journey. If we're going to put the patient in the center, we're going to have to make changes. The general principles must be adopted by the Stortinget. I therefore propose the following proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right: ‘The government is asked to submit a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget, where the Stortinget can address the general principles for the development and structure of hospitals and specialist health services during the planning period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2696	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2699	First of all, I can join everything that the previous speaker from the Right was in his post, so we don't have to repeat too much. I think that's okay. The matter that we have for us today is basically about the management and development of Norwegian hospitals. But the debate is likely to be about individual hospitals and individual departments. I'll try to stick to the overall. I am now in my fourth period of the Health and Care Committee, as it is now called. I have been involved in dealing with many issues, many initiatives of a different nature, and not least I have been involved in various forms of detail management. I must admit that I have also been one of the people who have been involved in addressing the small issues in the Committee and in the Stortinget. The big question is, is that the kind of policy we want? Or do we, as big-time representatives, in Stortinget as a body, want to be involved in laying the overall framework and letting the professionals, that is, the people who can do this subject of education and work, participate in and direct part of the development. When deciding whether to have a maternity ward, a maternity ward or a reinforced maternity ward, you don't go to the Stortinge to find out what kind of department you're going to set up. You look at the number of births and the need based on criteria and advice given by professionals. It would be wrong if we were to sit down and evaluate each and every one of the country's hospital wards. There would be hundreds of hospital wards that we would then sit down and judge ourselves over, so to tell the individual resident what should be in each department. I'm absolutely sure there's no one in this room who wants it, but in its ultimate consequence, it would be like this if we were to start with this kind of detail management. The Government has stated in its Declaration of Accession that a national health and hospital plan will be added to the Stortinget. It's under construction, and it's coming back to the Storting next year. Then Stortinget will have plenty of opportunity to discuss these frames. How will we design the health system of the future during the planning period? We are going to see dramatic changes in the Norwegian health care system, both in technology, in different types of medicine and in treatments, etc. The only thing we don't know about the future is how it actually becomes. It's going to be different. Things go faster than we can catch. Therefore, it is important that we, as politicians, lay the overall framework, while detail management should be made to the lowest level by others. We're going to make our recordings. We're going to steer through budgetary processes. We will govern by decision in this Chamber, which will ensure that the Norwegian people and all the inhabitants of this country are among the best health services in the world. That's what has to be our goal: no matter where we live in this country, we're actually going to get help when we need help. But it could be that the hospital structure is going to look different than what it did when we established the hospitals. You might see changes in the functional division between hospitals. It could be that we're going to see more centralization of some things, among other things. within cancer surgery, within prostate cancer and within breast cancer. Within a number of other cancers, we are totally dependent on making sure that practice does master. We're so few people in this country that actually being able to practice on a large enough patient basis is very important. Then, as politicians in this Chamber, we must ensure that we put the overall framework. Then professionals and others will help us make sure that the offer exists where we need the offer, and that it is of the best quality. I am more dependent on getting a well qualified offer when I need it than having the same offer everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2716	I guess our country has 5 million inhabitants. Health services and health opportunities are evolving more and more rapidly. We can deal with more and more. We have increasingly advanced treatment equipment and increasingly advanced methods. Medical equipment may subsequently give rise to unequal possibilities. Some services require quantity to provide good quality. For some medical equipment, a quantity is needed to provide sufficient quality in the use of the equipment. Some operations are so special that you need a quantity to get good grip and results for the patient and patient safety. That is why the Christian People's Party is incessantly happy that we are going to have a new health and hospital plan. This hospital plan would have to say something about different types of hospitals. It will have to say something about what municipalities are going to do, what hospitals are going to do and what the different regions are going to have to do with services. The plan will have to say something about what should be national functions, and what should not be national functions. It will have to say something about when, in order to meet a challenge, we may have to leave Norway and cooperate with the Nordic countries. The plan also has to say something about when you might have to go outside of the Nordic region to get access to a form of treatment. We're 5 million inhabitants. That's the situation. We can almost daily read in the paper about people who want to travel to other countries to get treatment, because they have seen that there are people who can do something more than us, because they have more to take off to get good at. That's why we need a plan, a plan that gives patients and residents the best treatment. In order to receive the best treatment, it is also important that part of hospital care is urgently prepared. It's about what kind of help we get close to, which is good enough on the day of the accident, or we get seriously ill. Then minutes and seconds could mean an incredible amount. It is therefore important for the Christian People's Party that the prehospital service and emergency care become a central part of the hospital and health plan. We want to know where and how we think about the air ambulance service. For example: Air ambulance services, we know there are some areas in our country that are kind of like dark holes. In a comment on the setting, the Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Left write: ‘The size shall be more closely involved in making the main decisions on how to develop the specialist health service.’» [[...]] The same majority also believe that the prehospital service is an important part of this plan. It's about air ambulances. It's about what kind of ambulance we're going to have. It's about how the medic is supposed to be. It's about getting a distress net up to go. It's about ambulances where it's necessary, and it's about special challenges some municipalities have, because they might have E39 or other industrial challenges, etc. in its vicinity. In this country, we will be good enough to meet the local challenge of stabilising patients and transporting them to the major hospitals, which become specialists in dealing with serious illness. Once upon a time, those who block patients with heart attacks are few of them, while those who treat heart attacks without blocking, there are many of them. That's how we have to think about other types of services. Many people are now thinking about what the Christian People's Party would say about the hospital in Rjukan, because it's nearby. The Christian People's Party does not participate in the closure of Rjukan Hospital until the minister refers to what kind of prehospital services, what kind of emergency services and how one thinks that the total package for people in Rjukan should be. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will also give an explanation of vote on how we will vote. We are not going to vote in favour of proposal No. 5, which we're in for today. We're not going to vote for it. We will support the Right and the Advance Party in proposal No. 10, and we are going to vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2743	It's a public responsibility to give everyone an equal supply of health services regardless of how a cage in the country and what kind of background you have. Hospital policy must be anchored in the Storting in order to create openness, debate, acceptance and democratic anchoring of the decisions being made. All parties in this room, except the Workers' Party, have been given the choice that the development of hospital services must take place according to an overall plan adopted by the Stortinget. Erna Solberg said the following to the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 September last year: ‘As we have a national transport plan for transport, we should have a national health plan for hospitals.’ The article further said: ‘The health plan they will draw up will define the tasks of each hospital, also locally, on a national basis.’ Bent Höie said to Today's Business on 16 August last year that it is the Stortinget, not the regional health professionals who should decide when to build new hospitals, and cows and cows. This was before the election. Now Höie and Right have turned the other way around. They have bluffed to the power of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Today, the Centre proposes that significant changes in hospital structure and hospital tasks, in particular changes in food and emergency functions, be decided by the Stortinget in a national health and hospital plan. Of course it should. It is a paradox that this year, in the 200th anniversary of the National Government of the country, we have a whole discussion in the United Kingdom about the Government of the People's Republic of China also to apply to hospital policy. Nor was it ever the Storting's intention when the company law was passed in 2001 that significant hospital decisions of social significance should be taken away from the Storting and away from popular government. It is only possible to read Section 30 of the Company Act on Delimitation in Business Administration's jurisdiction and Right, Workers' Party and Progress Party's comments in the Company Act setting. The Telemark HF Development Plan has been approved by the Minister for Health. This means that Rjukan and Kragerø hospitals are laid down because the health care company has to save 200 million. kr. Economics are simply no longer used as arguments. The argument is now adapted to the wording of the government platform that no local hospitals should be closed that cannot be justified on the basis of quality and patient safety. It is nitrist to experience such an dishonest debate that political party and corporate governance are running in this matter. Blurring and subversive arguments pave the way for extensive centralisation of preparedness. The quality argument is abused by both health professionals and the Minister of Health. No one claims that there is a poor quality of local hospitals in Telemark today. But Health South-East and the Minister of Health demand that hospitals become robust, i.e. larger, in order to be able to adapt to new quality requirements in the future. I have read these new quality requirements to which companies refer. They are designed by the administration of Health South-East, and are not treated by the board of directors once. They set the professional standard that two orthopaedics should always work together. In emergency reception, there shall be no candidate for rotation, but a physician specialising in the presence 24/7. I want to tell the Minister of Health: show me the hospital in Norway that is able to meet these so-called quality requirements. These are not quality requirements, but centralisation requirements, which will worsen the overall quality of hospital services in Norway. Studies show that two out of three healthcare providers need treatment at the local hospital level. Good quality in local hospitals is therefore crucial. But unrealistic demands on how to ensure quality will lead to the closure of local hospitals that are many times larger than Rjukan. Is this the Minister for Health planning in his health and hospital plan? Someone has to see what a trick this is, and that the argumentation is customizing the policy, not the subject. The entity organisation makes this possible. When the Right Party and the Advance Party today vote against what they opted for, it is a breach of promise. Lifting is painful, and they grow late, because they weaken trust and trust. But the Christian People's Party is also failing today, when it seems that they are turning their backs on both the hospital democracy and the people of Upper Telemark. The joint proposals from the Right and the Progress Party are completely unvalued. They are even less binding than what is on the government platform. The working party usually gives the impression that they are for local hospitals, but with its non-binding proposal they give full support to the government's centralising hospital policy and approve the closure of hospitals in Rjukan and Kragerø. It is the Centre Party's joint proposal with SV that is the best for hospital provision in Telemark. I'd like to ask the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party to think about it. With this Central Party, I am promoting my proposals on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2774	The representative Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2777	For the Left, a strong public health system is important. Norwegian hospitals shall be safe and accessible to the population. It requires a decentralised hospital structure, where responsibilities and functions are clearly distributed between different types of hospitals and between the hospital sector and the municipalities. The left has programmed that we want a national hospital plan. This has been implemented in the cooperation agreement with the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. For the first time in Norway, a national health and hospital plan shall be drawn up. It has to be in its first version necessarily something overarching. At the same time, it has to be so concrete that we are entering a future hospital offer, both professionally and economically. In parallel with the design of a hospital plan, a public health report on primary health services is also to be addressed, and we will be forming new municipalities in the next few years. In the next few years, there will be a debate on the division of tasks and responsibilities for different types of treatment between local medical centres and local hospitals, what can and must be done in different types of ambulances, on the volume needed to ensure sound quality and on centralisation and localisation. We are also waiting for the so-called "Acute Committee" to give its position on the future organisation of, among other things. medical and immediate local assistance. The next year, we will also deal with a big public health report. The last of these is perhaps the one that should be the most debated – about how we can avoid getting into hospitals more and more often and in long-term health care because of our own way of life. In addition, there will be an important debate on how democracy in the health sector should be. As a municipal board member and chairman, I have seen in recent years how the municipal sector has become increasingly responsible for increasingly ill patients, both somatic and mentally ill. Similarly, municipalities have not increased their human resources, investment capacity or more money to deal with this increase. This is particularly true in mental health and alcohol. But also for the elderly, there are many fine-tuning rooms without windows and front rooms in use in local institutions. In the municipalities, many elected people struggle with tough priorities, because the municipalities don't get away with printing. At best, they don't get away with typing – a bad time. In the hospital sector of general government, we are struggling with a democratic deficit, where those who are to respond to the real owners – the inhabitants – become far too far away from both service production, management and patients and residents. State Council Höie is to be commended for being both honest and tough when he met up in front of the Storting yesterday and defended the decision to the Hospital Telemark. However, democratically, I think it is a problem that there is a Council of States, indirectly elected by the people, who are to stand ready and take responsibility. The left wants changes in governance, where the population elected by Storting in the counties and Stortinget are more directly responsible for the health and well-being of their own citizens. This may involve changes in both electoral, state and corporate models. A change in the corporate model is perhaps the most nearby. The four cooperation parties have said that we will liquidate the regional health businesses. For the Left, it is important which model we come up with for the hospitals and, in particular, for the offers that are currently in the so-called semi-interline service, which sends a large number of patients out into a demanding spat. I must say to the representative Harald T. Nesvik: Yes, it is small and big things we are dealing with in the Stortinget. I've probably been involved in a lot less things than what we're talking about today. We cannot continue with such a two-part healthcare service, where the specialist healthcare service is based on market governance premises and low overall social strength, while the second part, primary health services in the municipalities, is forced to take full social responsibility. The Health and Welfare Committee was on a committee tour in Scotland in the winter. The first thing I heard from the top health authority in a country with 5.2 million dollars. Inhabitants, a hospital budget of 120 billion. kr and where health insurance and waiting lists hardly exist were: we have so many hot challenges that we cannot spend the money on bureaucracy. For comparison, we have 5.1 million. Inhabitants in Norway, a hospital budget of well over 133 billion. kr, and in the case of children with cerebral paresis, there is up to two years waiting time for operations, and many hundreds of thousands have taken out health insurance in the absence of trust in the system. In the middle of this health policy convalescence, the Left believes that neither is the time to liquidate something that has a hospital name in it, nor is it the time to keep the Stortinget away from major societal decisions until we have a comprehensive and future hospital structure in place, and until we have a new municipal health service in place. On behalf of the Left I will be promoted, if anyone else does not, the original proposal, No. 5, where the left-hand side is still standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2800	The representative, Mr. Kjeseth, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2803	I see that many have increased expectations as to what the national health and hospital plan should contain. However, I would like to show that I have answered questions about it several times, both in the Questionnaire and in written questions. In the government’s political platform, a firm commitment is made by the government to promote a national health and hospital plan for the Storting in order to create transparency and predictability in the sector. Although the State has been responsible for the hospitals and the rest of the specialist healthcare service for more than 12 years, the Stortinget has not dealt with its own health and hospital plan. The government believes that we need more political governance on how the specialist health service develops. The treatment of the birth message by the Storting shows how we think. There, Stortingen drew up the main lines for organising and developing maternity care, then developed the Health Directorate’s quality requirements, and the health regions subsequently changed their offerings in line with these leaders. This means that the Storting does not decide where to provide food, or which food departments to become feeding rooms. The important thing is that the Stortinget adopts the policy, while the directors of the hospitals are responsible for how the service should be organised and operated within the areas of responsibility they have – and these roles must not be mixed. In the national health and hospital plan, we will outline national principles and frameworks for different types of hospitals and hospital structures. Thereafter, health authorities are required to comply with the principles of professional criteria and quality requirements for the establishment. Health undertakings shall continue to be responsible for planning and implementing the necessary development and conversion work in order to comply with national and professional principles. The National Health and Hospital Plan will include discussions on how to plan them for future needs, thereby allowing the Stortinget to draw up the general principles of specialist health care. Work on the plan has started, and we will have an open planning process with dialogue with all the health regions of the country, users, managers and employees in the sector – and not least patients will be at the table when future hospital services develop. Then I will comment on the changes at the Hospital Telemark. They have come to the conclusion, through thorough investigation, that a collection of somatic emergency activities and daily treatment in fewer places will be the best way to discharge the overall responsibility of the population of Telemark. In the government platform, we have stated that we will stop closures of emergency and food services that are not based on patient safety and quality until the national health and hospital plan has been addressed. The decision of the Hospital Telemark is justified on patient safety and quality. That is why I have dealt specifically with this matter, and on that basis I have taken decisions on the closure of the emergency functions in the business meeting. This is a decision which also includes a clear requirement that, before the emergency services in Rjukan are closed, a renewal and updating of the plans for the prehospital services, or emergency services outside the hospital – just to have the plans in place before the emergency services are closed, so that the population feels safe in view of the emergency services they require. I also hope that this decision will start a renewed and reinforced cooperation between the Hospital Telemark and Tinn Municipality on the development of joint health services between the municipal health service and the specialist health service for those of the areas that will be left at the hospital in Rjukan. There are outpatient services and day services, and there will also be the opportunity to develop better cooperation with the medical service, immediate help beds, etc. So this could be the start of something new, not just the liquidation of something that has been. I will not add that the Storting will decide on the actual offer at each hospital. It will be the responsibility of the board of directors and management within the framework that the Stortinget draws up through the national health and hospital plan. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that health business decisions are within the framework of the Storting. Some of the decisions will also end up as major development projects which will, of course, be submitted to the Stortinget through the State budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2820	So it's going to be a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2823	We have discussed this several times, but it is useful to reiterate that there is a great difference between how the Right Minister and the Health Minister put their words now, and how they put themselves before the elections – and the left impression. I think a lot of people see that, and I'm sorry you have to make choices before you talk this way. But I'm not going to spend the time on it. I'll ask you another thing. There are many places in the country where there have been tough shifts, for example. Here in the capital. As these went on for good – and there is still some work going on – we in the Workers' Party thought it was right that they should get some more time and space, economically also, to find good solutions in the capital area. They got that, and Bent Höie as opposition leader thought they got too little time and economic space. My question is therefore: Why has the government and the Minister of Health not communicated to the Hospital Telemark that they could have had more financial space and more time to find good solutions in a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2830	Today, the Labour Party is promoting what is proposal No. 12 – which is actually my decision in the business meeting for prehospital services – but the request is that it be notified back into the government budget for the autumn. It's not giving time or space to find good solutions. On the contrary, it's asking a hospital to renew and update its plans for prehospital services while large parts of the country are on summer vacation, and they don't know the financial framework for next year. My decision in the business meeting means that the Hospital Telemark is given good time to make qualitatively good, up-to-date plans in a situation where they know the financial framework, because the state budget is adopted for the harvest in Stortinget. And these plans are going to be in place before the emergency facility on Rjukan is shut down.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2837	Then I think the Council of State misunderstood me, because in the budget proposal from the previous government this was mentioned. I can say quite clearly that if we had managed the Ministry of Health, this economic space for action and the time to find good solutions had already been communicated in the mission document in January. Now we're in June. I agree that it is too late, but it is not too late to do anything about what is now felt to be very unsafe in some places. There is reason not to stand in the way of conversion and change, but at the same time one has to look at what is left, and what should be the alternative emergency response for the areas concerned. And it's not too late in the state budget, it's coming in October. Then Höie has plenty of time to find money. He can cut out some of his tax cuts – then he finds money for this – and make concrete action to replace what is to come. Then there will be greater security around what is going to happen. Once again, we reserve the right to see it before we give some blank to the government about what's now happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2846	What is the question in proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party, it is precisely to follow up what is my business decision, and to demand that this be reported back in the State budget as early as the autumn, means that there is neither time nor room for it. So this is a work on a development plan that started under the previous government. It was completed during this government. I believe that the changes adopted by Hospital Telemark are so important, especially in view of what is on the government platform, that there was a decision that had to be taken by me in the business meeting, in relation to the emergency offer on Rjukan and in Kragerø. That is why it is my decision, and it is a decision that I am responsible for – that is also the division of responsibilities between big business and government – for which it has been drawn up, among other things. in Section 30 of the Health Business Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2853	For the Christian People's Party, it is entirely inappropriate to make an emergency offer before we have ensured a qualitatively good and sound emergency response through, among other things. high-quality prehospital services. It's solid. Does the Council of State believe that if emergency departments, such as Rjukan Hospital, are closed down, the emergency response is nevertheless sound, as it is today, or does the Council of State Christian People's Party share the matter that the emergency response will not be closed until a new proper emergency response is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2860	I don't want to use the term of health in this context, because it has a very clear and serious meaning when we talk about health. Of course, the offer is sound. If it hadn't been, we would have been in a dramatic situation. I believe that the current situation is not good enough with regard to the Hospital Telemark and having prehospital services or emergency services outside the hospital. Therefore, it is clear from me – through the business meeting – that before the emergency services at Rjukan are closed, there must be up-to-date and renewed plans for emergency services outside the hospital. I wouldn't have adopted it if I thought the plans that are today are good enough. Therefore, this should be put in place before the emergency services on Rjukan are closed. Delivering this already in connection with the state budget for the autumn will, in my opinion, mean that we will give the Hospital Telemark too tight a frame – both in time and in view of the fact that they do not know the financial framework – to deliver a good plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2870	In today’s business life on 16 August 2011, the health policy spokesman in Right, Bent Höie, said that ‘there is a need for an operational national hospital plan, in line with the level of concreteity of the national transport plan’. He also stated that ‘it is the Stortinget, and not the regional health establishments, who should decide when to build new hospitals and where, and why’. In the Official Journal of Bergen on 2 September 2013, Bent Höie said: ‘There will always be torches, but now the torches will know where to go. They can address their own politicians at Stortinget, who with our model will be responsible for the decisions.’ In the nation on 3 September last year, Höie said: ‘The whole point of a new health plan is that the Storting should have a decision-making basis.’ There are many quotations showing that the Right would have a detailed hospital plan, where the Storting would take the decisions. I don't know what the argument is for a turn, and what a fear is of getting these decisions anchored in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2889	I am very happy to answer all the accusations that we have turned around in terms of the National Health and Hospital Plan. I would like to quote the last joint proposal that the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party had on this in the Grand Council in connection with the 2013 state budget, in the opening of the election campaign: ‘The government is asked to start work on a new national health and hospital plan in 2013. The plan shall anchor the development of the specialist health service both locally and nationally and be addressed by the Stortinget. This plan shall include an overview of the investment and maintenance needs of the sector, a new investment regime and minimum requirements for the functions of different types of hospitals, as well as the development of pre-hospital services, including the air ambulance service.’;» It is a proposal that is entirely in line with the work we are now doing. That's what we proposed for Stortinget. That's what we went to the elections on, and that's what we're doing now. All these scattered quotes are just to create the impression that what we promised before the election, the Workers' Party warned against. That's not what we proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2901	What's interesting about these quotations is that there's nothing the opposition has found, but something Bent Höie has said. Then Bent Höie must also find herself in being met with them. But I want to ask you something else, because I don't expect us to get any answers on this error of the voters before the election. I want to ask about the situation in Telemark. It has become known that Health South-East has ordered the Hospital Telemark to save significant amounts. It is also known that there is a concrete, quite large savings related to the closure that will now take place at Rjukan – it was well specified at the board meeting in the Hospital Telemark at 50 million. kr. Could the Minister for Health rule out that the economy has been part of the motivation for the decision on closure approved by the Minister for Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2908	The work on the development plan for the Hospital Telemark has as its starting point how to establish a forward-looking and robust hospital service for the entire population of Telemark. In Telemark today, there are four hospitals with emergency facilities. There's a population of over 170 000. Through the development plan, it has been widely agreed that it makes sense for Telemark residents to combine emergency functions in two places — on Notodden and in Ski. It has been joined by municipalities representing 80 pst. by the inhabitants of Telemark. The user organisations of Telemark have been joined. It has been approved by the various trade unions in Telemark. There has been a broad consultation process. This has subsequently been assessed by Health South-East – and after that by me again. The reason for this is to ensure a forward-looking and robust hospital service for the entire population of Telemark. In the health sector, money is nothing but competence and patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2917	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2922	I guess I can't say I'm in the company model fan club. I am therefore pleased that we in the Workers' Party are going to have health policy up to discussion in the future. Nevertheless, we have to deal with the realities that are per day. Therefore, the Workers' Party has been careful to promise more than we could keep, even if we have certainly lost votes on it – both during the municipal and county elections in 2011 and during the 2013 Grand Prix. It will therefore be especially when the government parties – and especially the Right – have gone a long way to making peace with the local hospitals. Also in time after the election, cf. the government statement, they have signaled it. So now they've turned all the way around and falsified something completely different. I understand well if the people of Rjukan, in Kragerø and elsewhere in the country feel tricked by the Right. They have every reason for that. They haven't just been tricked, I guess it's the right name. We in the Workers' Party are also not impressed with the government and the follow-up of this case by the Council of State. We therefore ask the government to come back to the Storting with a clarification of what is included in the government statement on the important role of local hospitals ‘to ensure preparedness for life and health throughout the country’. There is reason to consider critically that the Minister of Health and the Government said something in the election campaign, but do something quite different when they are in position. There is reason to ask questions about the local and regional democratic anchoring of hospital policy in the future, as the government wants to weaken the popular representation of hospital administrators. There is also reason to ask whether the Council of State has been close enough to the processes around the Hospital Telemark. It does not seem that only the voters have been tricked by the Right in this matter. When I read the statements of Mr Gruvean in the Agder newspaper, that proposal No. 10 – from the Right and Advance Party, to which the Christian People’s Party appears to join – among others. will save the hospital in Flekkefjord, I am afraid that the Christian People's Party is being tricked, or simply wondering. This is a difficult thing, but let's hang the bell on the cat. It is the Council of State and the government that are responsible here – no one else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2939	For the Christian People's Party, emergency preparedness is an important matter. I think we have managed to express that in the debate so far. It is not relevant for the Christian People's Party to make an emergency offer without replacing it with a qualitatively good emergency response. It's solid. I would like to point out something that my colleague, the representative Bollestad, was also involved in his post, this with prehospital services and especially air ambulances. It's an important part of prehospital emergency preparedness. We know that in Telemark there is a hole – or ‘dark hole’, as the representative Bollestad called it – where there is too much time between where the air ambulance is now located and to a possible site of damage. This is also a good opportunity to raise that particular perspective, and I will do so in this case, because I think this case forces a new assessment of whether an air ambulance base should not be established in Telemark. This is at least something Christian People's Party is going to lift up not only for Telemark, but of course also for other parts of the country where we have these black holes. To the representative Kjersti Toppe: First of all, I may not think it was the most pleasant invitation I have had. First we are accused of failure, and then we are invited to participate in a proposal that will actually put the whole process around the health company in Telemark on hold. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the development plan of the Hospital Telemark HF 2014–2016 is reviewed in the case of local hospitals in Rjukan and Kragerø.’ So here you're talking about two different things. It doesn't. One thing is related to the other, and if we were to support this, it means that we had been waiting for the process of improving quality, providing more bedposts and a high level of competence at the Hospital Telemark both in Skien and on Notodden. It is not fair, and it cannot be part of the Christian People's Party. I think we've been very clear on what kind of expectations we have to the Council of State on this in order to ensure that there is good emergency preparedness throughout Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2953	Quality and availability of healthcare are essential for people’s safety and trust in hospitals. The availability of services must be independent of place of residence and economy. The Central Party believes that the elected representatives must take control of health policy priorities. The change in hospital structure and essential hospital duties must be determined by the Stortinget in a national health and hospital plan. The Central Party believes that the elected members of the People's Party should discuss and make decisions on hospital structure. The Enterprise Act has consistently provided for restrictions on the decision-making powers of undertakings in relation to major issues of social importance, restrictions covering key health policy priorities such as the closure of food supply, the centralisation of emergency preparedness, the merger of hospitals and the establishment of large hospitals for the replacement of local hospitals. It would be democratic to let health authorities make the final decisions on this on their own. In the election campaign, the Right made a big point that the Stortinget was going to participate in the decisions of a new national health plan. Now the right is acting in violation of these election promises. Government parties were offensive in their platform and gave the impression that the national health plan should be an important political governance document. If the Storting is not to decide on significant changes in food and emergency services, there is little left of these promises. The Christian People's Party stood on our side as late as yesterday. I record that they have turned in the notes, and I hear them say something else here in the hall. I hope you follow up, otherwise I am deeply sorry about your choice. Of course, the Labour Party defends the health businesses they themselves introduced. It is a pity, however, that they are not using the option today – which lies through our joint proposal with SV – to review the closures of Rjukan and Kragerø. With our proposal, this could have been done without hindering the other change processes started in the health region. For us, it might seem that the Workers' Party does not actually want to maintain the emergency services at these hospitals, and that they are therefore failing the local population, who has shown a violent commitment. The centre party believes that there is a need to listen to the local population. Health enterprises cannot govern the way they want until a national health and hospital plan is in place, as this plan will be of little importance. At the same time, there is great doubt that decommissioning will actually lead to an increase in the quality of patient provision, as the minister claims. Therefore, health enterprises need to re-evaluate the closure of emergency functions. Changes to essential hospital duties must be determined by the size of a national health and hospital plan. This is about the seventh and last thing about who's going to decide about our hospitals. The Central Party believes that it is the people, through the politicians. Unfortunately, there is a majority in this Chamber who believe that it is up to the bureaucracy to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2970	The President will draw attention to the fact that after the schedule we will probably vote around midnight, but as it looks now, it's going to be dark and bright before we get a vote. But it's the representatives who decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2973	In this case, there is no doubt that the government and the Minister of Health have contributed to creating full confusion about what comes into the government's new health and care plan. The expectations created by the plan are good reason for this – a plan that should be so detailed that, among other things. would provide a clarification related to the contents of each hospital. The background to the tradition I have heard a lot about here, it's quoted several times from the government platform, that the hospital plans also need to deal with local hospitals and the important role they have in preparedness for life and health throughout the country, and from the health promises of the Right Party in the election campaign, and Erna Solberg, who said that as we have a national transport plan for transport, we should get a national health plan for hospitals. Bent Höie followed up, as mentioned earlier, that there will always be torches, but now the torches will know where to go and that there should be a health plan that would provide the Storting with a decision-making basis. Several locations in the country are now implementing different development plans, and in my area, around Flekkefjord Hospital, the development plan for Southern Hospital has been sent out to the hearing. Flekkefjord Hospital is one of the country’s most well-run hospitals in terms of both economy and quality, but the consultation notes suggest that the emergency and food supply is discontinued. Reactions have not been delayed – 5000 participants in torch trains. The four right-wing rapporteurs who go to the hospital have stated that they have clear expectations for the Minister of Health based on the previously mentioned election promises, but it looks as if the Minister of Health has turned the letter sent to the Committee. Today we have received a new proposal from the government parties on the table, which, after what I understand, will receive majority support from the Christian People's Party. When I hear Höie and also read the proposal, I see that it will not explain what I referred to earlier. In the local language Agder today, the representative Gruvan of the Christian People's Party states the following: ‘The most important thing about today’s decision is that it ensures that both structure and content are based at national level.’ He further stated that Stortinget could therefore say something about the contents of the hospital in Flekkefjord, that there should be emergency function and maternity department there, and that Flekkefjord hospital is ensured. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he can confirm that this is what is in the decision. The Labour Party believes that it is urgent for the government to clarify what it itself puts in the wording of the Government Declaration on Local Hospitals and the important role they have in preparing for life and health throughout the country. That is why, today, we are promoting proposals that this clarification must be made quickly and that it must already be included in the draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e2997	This thing has an extra nerve and an extra dimension. It's about Telemark. It's a day-to-day matter. This is about Rjukan and Kragerø, where Rjukan is clearly in a special position. For those who know where and what Rjukan is, they understand this speciality. The origin of the hospital is not the municipality of Tinn or Rjukan, but West-Telemark – six municipalities, 7,700 km2, some larger than West-Agder, three times larger than Westfold and nearly twice as large as Eastfold. Rjukan Hospital scores high on qualitative standards such as satisfaction and quality. The nerve is now, of course, in the fear of losing the emergency function, the possibility of getting help in a demanding area, and not least the fear that what is now happening and that the Minister of Health has verified will be the start of the hospital closure. It is also about the other hospital services in Telemark, which have had considerable economic challenges over a long time, and have not least had a significant need to make and implement the necessary investments. The Telemark development plan is undoubtedly motivated by the need to save. There is no evidence to suggest that this is a process that has started based on quality and patient safety. The whole motivation is based on the fact that there must be an economic savings. I think the Storting should also recognize that very ratio. In the development plan it is very good, and much that will mean a positive future, but something is very demanding, not least the relationship to the emergency function of Rjukan. Then I ask those who are more busy reading their own suggestions than reading others, to read the Workers' Party's proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox I am absolutely sure that is the proposal that best takes care of the precarious situation that Telemark is in, including the situation that has arisen on Rjukan. The proposal makes it very clear that action must be taken to: ‘ensure adequate emergency preparedness in the affected areas’; Then there is no doubt that the specialty is in Rjukan. What is ‘sufficient emergency response’ in this context? The only health minister so far has pointed out are the prehospital services. But it has to be filled with something in this area. That is what we are asking for in proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox It's not that everything should be clapped and clear when the state budget is presented, but then perhaps the Minister of Health should have a certain idea of what needs to be in place in Rjukan before you can move on with it. One must also know the financial framework and at the same time support the health provision in Telemark for a very demanding time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3018	The representative Harald T. Nesvik rallied that there was someone who took up the small things in Stortinget. Then I encourage him to repeat it while he sees the many from Telemark sitting at the gallery here, in his eyes. This is not a small matter. It's about the security of many people. It's about a lot of jobs and the future of the whole community. This Stortinget deals with detailed questions and small questions in very many cases. The problem in health policy is that the Stortinget has denied power over many of the most important decisions regarding our hospitals. It's exactly the kind of decisions the Storting should make. The proposal that we were with the Christian People's Party on, but still is with the Left and the Center parties in the setting, it says, but in addition, the Center Party and SV have submitted two suggestions. They are looking at, again, the part of the development plan for the Hospital Telemark HF, which is about Rjukan and Kragerø, and that the Stortinget should ask the government to ensure that emergency functions and daily treatment continue until further notice in Rjukan and Kragerø. It was to meet the criticism that has come from, among other things. The Labour Party, which has not wanted to vote for everything to be postponed, has said that they are against the closure of Rjukan and Kragerø. I respect that parties may have different views on the system. I'm very surprised at the way the Christian People's Party is now acting, because they're going to vote for a proposal that is thus blessing a hospital plan that will be much more limited than what has been promised so far, and at the same time they're saying that it's not relevant for the Christian People's Party to support closure now, but they choose not to use the only option the Storting has to stop closure. I am also very amazed at the Workers' Party. Telemark Arbeiderparti has crystal clear decisions to move towards closure in Rjukan and Kragerø. Nevertheless, the Workers' Party is promoting proposals today which de facto approve the closure which will take place on the basis of the way in which the conversion is to be carried out. That's what's happening. Therefore, SV will not vote in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal. I have full respect for the fact that you can have different views on this matter, but have little respect for disclaimer. It cannot be that only the government is responsible for this decision. Of course, the parties who choose not to use the opportunity to oblige the Minister of Health to think again have responsibilities. That means that if the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party today vote against the proposals that will oblige the Minister of Health to reconsider this, the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party must also take responsibility for their contribution to the closure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3033	The opposition is trying to create a picture of the election being won by a bluff, deception, or the population being fooled. It is such that it is the opposition's privilege to talk the government down, and in this case the Minister of Health. I think that's sad. The right has opted for the Storting to deal with a national health and hospital plan – it comes. It's good to be impatient. But the Right has not gone to the elections to peace all local hospitals. Our Health Minister delivers. The first priority for us was actually to lift the field of mental health and alcohol. That treatment is being increased in health businesses. We aim to bring health cows down – that is why it is open to use capacity for investigation in private hospitals. And we have made proposals on free treatment choices. As regards the prehospital services in Telemark, the Minister for Health has asked for a plan. It shall be developed in cooperation between municipalities and enterprises. It'll take time because that plan can contain a lot of elements. My concern in the future is the need for specialised expertise, not only in the specialist health service, but also in the community health service. Therefore, it is important to me that we have a plan that ensures good planning of future personnel and skills needs, and that we have a coherent system of emergency services inside and outside hospitals. It shall provide adequate safety and quality throughout the country. I am therefore pleased that the government has announced that the development of the emergency service and the emergency medical chain will be a main theme of the plan. We in Stortinget cannot stop changes, as the Central Party suggests, to centralize all decisions on conversion. We don't have to centralize all the treatments. It's a misunderstanding. Most patients today are well-accompanied by their local hospitals and some local medical centres, whether in dialysis, relief or medical or surgical outpatient settings. It's also important. I want to remind you that most of the activity in hospitals is actually outpatient. If we put the patient in the center, we can't say no to change. That doesn't mean we're going to change everything, but no one can seize new opportunities when you're doubting old solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3050	I would like to refer to the proposals from the SV and the Senterpartiet, where we are accused of not being included in them and that we should take responsibility. If we look at proposal No. 13, ask one to review the development plan for Rjukan and Kragerø. That means that one also postpones the expansion in the Ski and Notodden. We can't break up a plan where one point is related to another point. As regards proposal No: 14, it says that: «acute functions and day-to-day processing until further notice». It means that there has to be something ‘up until further notice’. I myself have been in a situation where I have been on a torch train, where I have worked in a hospital, and I know about the commitment, but I am also concerned that it should be quality of what we have. When we are accused of not listening to democracy, I want to say that 11 out of 18 municipalities have supported the plans. The Christian People's Party has said, "We hear that!" Then we also hear that, in order to do things on Rjukan, we are going to go down if the minister can refer to prehospital services that actually take care of the inhabitants who live there. It could mean medics, it could mean ambulances, it could mean a new base for air ambulances somewhere in Telemark. It could be about where we have the immediate help beds. This could mean that we can take up services that they have done in the municipality of Bjerkreim, where they have trained their own nurses for emergency medical education, which can be part of the ambulance service. Here we can think of a new one. Then I want to say something to those who come out Flekkefjord. For the Christian People's Party there is a big difference in the hospital we are now talking about, and Flekkefjord and West Agder. The counties West-Agder and East-Agder and Rogaland have a total of five hospitals. Rogaland covers approx. 500,000 inhabitants and the counties 300,000. The distance between Stavanger and Kristiansand with E39 suggests, as I said in my first post, that there must be a place to stabilize patients. So the Christian People's Party will strike quite a lot in relation to thinking that in a hospital plan there shouldn't be an emergency function between Kristiansand and Stavanger, when E39 goes there, and there goes a train path there. It'll be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3068	There are some who believe that today the hospitals are not governed by democracy or politicians. I think that is wrong. Over the last few years, this room, often by a broad majority, has joined a number of messages – quality messages and reports, as Bent Höie now suggests to come as a national health and hospital plan. At all, it is not that the importance of emergency preparedness or of being hospitalized throughout the country close to where people live has not been described and expressed from this room. The signals it controls after today have been adopted in Stortinget. That's why, as some claim, it's not free to do what you want to do in Hospital-Norway. However, the Labour Party has been concerned that many decisions will be better taken if they are taken closer to where people live. For this reason, we have been concerned, for example, with: In addition to professionals and experts, the health services of the various regions — including at company level — should also include policy-makers and others with political experience of the community. We are therefore critical that the government has now started to replace some of these for the benefit of economists and other experts. We believe that there is greater security to ensure that more considerations are taken care of when we also have with people who know the local environment well. Then there are many who point out that there have been many changes in the last few years in many places in Hospital-Norway. That's absolutely right. It's been absolutely necessary. One of the reasons why we as a nation today deliver better results on behalf of patients, who are poor and need help, is that we have the courage to do different steps. It's been hard every time, but it's been necessary. All these changes and changes in hospital services require one thing, namely that the top politically responsible follows these processes closely, and with the model we have in Norway, this is the government and the Minister of Health. I believe that this has not happened in the case in question in Telemark. I mentioned more examples of this, and when the Health Minister says that there will now be new signals about economic space, I say: it should have been too long! You should have been a lot closer, a lot earlier. Perhaps we had found better solutions than what is now on the table, and like the SV and the Central Party invite the Stortinget to take a stand over the table, without having been presented with any decision-making basis by him who is really responsible for this, namely the Council of State, which has an entire office that can go through the whole material and possibly present something to the Stortinget. It would be completely irresponsible. I believe that the proposals we have made are not such as to understand that everything must be clear in the state budget. The Council of State would like to interpret the proposals to allow him to provide a preliminary status description. The point is that it is completely inappropriate to support proposals to drop something before the prospect of what is to be replaced. That's what we're asking through planes and money, especially in Rjukan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3081	Good local hospitals are an important part of the policy for ensuring growth, well-being and housing throughout the country. Despite this, one sees that the discharge in hospital policy continues. The central party's clear starting point is that elected representatives are responsible for and have to take decisions on hospital structure and important tasks. State Council Höie talks about the great expectations of the national plan to come. I believe that Höie himself has created these expectations, and there are very big words about what this plan should be. Yes, it's drawn parallels to the National Transport Plan, but that's not what we experience being said now. There was something one said before the election. This becomes like a national transport plan without an investment programme, and one can imagine how much commitment it would create. So this is a big disappointment, and one goes away from the promises you had. In Flekkefjord, it's a big commitment to the hospital. This is an important offer for people in both Rogaland and West Agder. Those who fight for a hospital in Flekkefjord are waiting for its future to be determined in a national health and hospital plan. That's why people have reason to feel tricked by the government and the Minister of Health when you look at the decisions that are in place today. The centre party will not weaken the hospital in Flekkefjord, and we will fight together against Höies and the government's bureaucracy to ensure that the food and emergency functions are maintained. I believe it is absolutely essential for the hospital in Flekkefjord that the Minister of Health today will clarify what the matter we are dealing with today, meaning for the question of the food and emergency function at the hospital in Flekkefjord. Will this be part of the National Health and Sickness Plan, or will a bureaucratic choice be made regardless of the plan and run counter to the expectations created by the Right in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3092	I have to start with the Workers' Party which invites others to join in supporting their proposals. The Workers' Party was the architect behind the company model we have today, the Workers' Party has run the hospitals in the last eight years, it was the Workers' Party that was the architect behind establishing Europe's largest hospital in Oslo, and it does not provide the necessary confidence that the Left considers going into any of the Workers' Party's proposals. It's hard to see what's the motive -- what the Workers' Party wants. Looking at my own region, which is the Mjø area – I am from Gjøvik – the Workers' Party has been the biggest driver of the Inland Hospital regime to lay down three very large hospitals in Gjøvik, Lillehammer and Elverum to replace them with a new, large hospital that would also become one of Europe's biggest hospitals. So the gigantomania we see in the Norwegian health care system today is primarily established by the Workers' Party. I would like to try something with someone else, and for the time being I am not dismayed by Bent Höie's trust. But what's left as a bit of a question after this debate here today is why we have this debate, when everyone says we're going to postpone this about until we get a national hospital plan. That's the debate I'm asking for and waiting for, and then we have to take the time to take it seriously. As I said, an emergency committee is at work. That is to say something about the future organisation of medical care and immediate help. As the council says, it's uncertain whether the quality is good enough for what's outside the hospitals as well. So we're all not sure about it, and the Christian People's Party refers to the air ambulance that we would like to have, both in Telemark and the Inland. There are two big black holes, but the time span we have now gives us a very good opportunity to take all the big debates at the same time – on the whole health chain in Norway, on the responsibilities between hospitals and municipalities, and on the mandate and authority of the Stortinget in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3101	I would say I'm a little surprised that so many of the big business representatives have such very clear opinions about what a national health and hospital plan should or should not contain. It's a plan that we now have in the process of being prepared, where we're doing a lot of work. Three expert groups have been set up, a separate group from the Ministry of Health and Welfare is traveling around the country to get a recording. It is also posted on the web on an ongoing basis. A lot of work has been started, for example: as the representative, Mr Kjeseth, is concerned that one should have a separate work related to the emergency service, for emergency services will be a central part of a national health and hospital plan. The work will be phased into the national health and hospital plan that Stortinget will receive for treatment next year. The fact is that a national health and hospital plan that many parties in the Stortinget have wanted for a long time, not least in the eight years we have had a red-green government, is now under preparation. It comes to the Stortinget next year, it has a content in line with what the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party proposed in connection with the 2013 state budget. Then we didn't get a majority for that, now we have a majority for such a plan. I hope the Stortinget today strengthens it by re-adopting that this plan will be drawn up. Then I must remind you that former Minister of Health, Jonas Gahr Støre, said in the debate that such a plan as we propose will become an even greater degree of hospital policy – both small and large going into this Chamber, where the Minister of Health will operate detailed management of small and large, and where all matters will run up against the Oslo Department. He warned against that. I answered him and said no, that's not the plan we're proposing, it's a plan with the overall leadership and the basic principles. Now, the Workers' Party is trying to create the impression that in terms of the plan they warned against, but that we did not propose – when we do not propose a plan in line with what Gahr Støre had been against – we are the ones who are jumping from our promises. We have never proposed a plan that will contain that kind of detail in Stortinget. But I understand that now, because I have got the impression that the plan should contain this, because it is an impression that they have received from their government partners in the Center Party and SV, who never got a pass for such a plan. I understand that very well. The type of plan currently envisaged by the Centre Party and the SV will undermine the entire management system and the sharing of responsibilities between collapse and government. I think that the picture of the national transport plan is still a good picture. I intend to provide the Stortinget with an overview of both the planning processes and the region's planned investments in the national health and hospital plan. However, in the same way as in the transport sector, investments will depend on the annual budgets and can actually be carried out in the framework of the various projects. This is also the case in the transport sector, and so is the case in the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3114	The objective of centralising the ownership of hospitals from the state to the state was the need to see the whole – in terms of people, offers and buildings, and thus could be a better priority. Then we received Section 30 of the Health Business Act, which said that significant changes, food supply and emergency services were to be dealt with politically at national level. Anyone can read the preliminary work and debate in 2001 and see what was said and what it says. This was necessary for the adoption of the plan. Then, and especially later, we have experienced the role of the state in the current conditions of power. I would say it this way: the role of the state in the current conditions of power is to centralize. The consequences are removed from equivalent hospital services, emergency and food services for people living outside the largest cities. That's why there's demonstrations and enormous popular commitment regardless of the lot. The proposal of the Centre Party and SV – in the basis of the proposal of the Centre Party – in the document was that substantial changes in the hospital structure and tasks, food and emergency services are decided by the Stortingen in the national health and hospital plan. And second, big investments are determined by the Stortinge in the National Health and Hospital Plan. When the representative Örmen Johnsen here says that the Centre Party will govern the offer of hospitals and put an end to the necessary investments, there is nothing but disinformation, and it can only have its cause in the lack of arguments, for everyone can read the wording of the proposal of the Centre Party. It is said by the representative of Örmen Johnsen that food and emergency services should be discontinued in the event of a lack of quality. Then we can take the example of Rjukan. It's wrong, I've visited the professionals who do the job that's to be done there, and that's top quality. It gives an incredibly strong impression to meet the 103 professionals who are there. And if that's not enough, I'm standing here with protocol no. 3 from the Hospital Telemark from 14 May 2014, which has not been published. It is stated in the first paragraph of a joint protocol between management and non-executives: ‘Trusted persons are concerned about the economic situation of the Hospital Telemark HF. We understand that the administration has to adapt operations after this." And on the other hand, ‘We ask questions about whether we are able to maintain the same quality and patient safety in the event of such a large decrease in staff.’ And then it's presented in this discussion that there are professional demands and not economics that lie at the root. The representatives of the big business must soon understand that the many who have been involved in this process have reviewed this for a long time. Stop using dishonest arguments — say as it is, centralisation is the aim of the policy pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3141	As telemarking, I have followed closely the process that has been around the development plan for the Sjukehuset Telemark HF. I must say that has been a difficult matter for us in Telemark. The mission of the board of directors of the Sjukehuset Telemark HF is to develop a resilient and good hospital supply for the entire Telemark. On 29 January 2013, the Management Board decided to set up a project organisation with a mandate: ‘The Board has found it necessary to review the Special Health Service Services of the Hospital Telemark and has asked the Executive Director to draw up a development plan that meets national and regional requirements, professional leadership and the specified financial framework conditions.’ On 17 December 2013, the Management Board decided to send out the final report for the 2014-2016 development plan to its hearing. There were many recordings, and the commitment has been great, and of course the most from the two municipalities of Tinn and Kragerø, which happened most of the setting from the project group, as the medical emergency services at their hospitals were proposed. It has our people's meeting, newspapers, articles and debates. I would like to claim that the process has been open and inclusive with many meeting points with project management on the way for the current parties. On 20 May 2014, the Board of Directors of the Hospital of Sjukehuset Telemark HF adopted the position, which was subsequently adopted by the Board of Health South-East HF and finally confirmed by Minister of Health Höie in the Business Meeting on 5 June 2014. I have great respect for the work and the commitment shown in this matter. I understand the disappointment of Rjukan and Kragerø, who lose the medical emergency function, but the hospital is not closed, there should still be outpatient clinics and daily services both in Kragerø and in Rjukan. In addition, the Minister of Health has pointed out that an updated plan for prehospital services for Rjukan should be provided before the closure of the emergency facility. This is a very important point for people who have had an acute function associated with Rjukan Hospital, i.e. Todke and Vinje municipality. Telemark consists of 18 municipalities, and a large majority of municipalities support the development plan. The same goes for the user organisations and the external trade unions. For me, it is important that the Telemark hospital provides good health services to all Telemark residents, and ensures a durable, comprehensive emergency hospital supply for the Telemark population. Therefore, this structural change was necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3165	It was the representative Lysbakken who made me take the floor for the second time. He said that those parties that do not oblige the Minister of Health to think again must take responsibility for the situation. Yes, I agree with the heart. Then I actually ask the representative Lysbakken to go through the proposals No. 11 and 12 from the Workers' Party. There are clear instructions for the Minister of Health to think again. I understand that the commitment is great about local hospital in Stortinget. I think it's a broad majority to support the important role and function of local hospitals. In that case, I do not understand that a majority in the Stortinget may vote in favour of proposal No. 11 from the Labour Party, where we ask the government to clarify the formulation of local hospitals and the important role they have for safe preparedness and for life and health throughout the country – not least in the light of the Minister of Health himself said in this Chamber that there is nothing about local hospitals in the national health and health plan. If the Storting is committed to clarifying what the government itself thinks in its own government statement, they should vote in favour of proposal No. 11 from the Labour Party, because that's the only way to go to the root, the core of this question, which is very central in the debate we now have in the Chamber. As regards proposal No: 12, I think Per Olaf Lundtigen made a good contribution to substantiate the very importance of having proposal No. 12 today. The representative Lundteigen referred to a discussion protocol, where there is obviously frustration because of the economic situation. Yes, what is the proposal in this matter is what underpins the seriousness of the relationship with the Hospital Telemark, other than the Workers' Party's proposal No. 12? It's the only realistic approach to taking it seriously. The same applies to demanding from the Minister of Health that he does not shift responsibility to the Hospital Telemark, which has a poor economy – but that this room takes responsibility for having sufficient emergency preparedness in the area concerned, it must certainly be to impose something new on the Minister of Health. I think – since I come from the county – that this matter deserves the attention contained in our proposal No. 11 and in our proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox It's the only thing that's relieving the situation in Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3179	It's not the volume of an article that determines the quality. I have great respect for the fact that there are different views. But I don't have much respect for double communication. My challenge to the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party has simply been that it's okay, we have respect for the fact that you don't want to tell the Minister of Health that these decommissioning processes need to be stopped, but then on the one hand you can't say you're against closure, and then say you don't want to do anything about it. I have also stunned when I have seen the Christian People's Party's statements about the hospital in Flekkefjord. The proposal now being promoted by the Right and Advance Party, for which the Christian People's Party will form a majority, would just say that the government is not required to say anything about the local hospitals in a national health and hospital plan, but only to give an overall plan, where we cannot necessarily expect that there will be something about the functions of Flekkefjord in the future. We are the other people who have that view, that a national health and hospital plan should be so detailed. In view of the Labour Party's proposal No. 12 – There have been various explanations as to why we cannot vote in favour of our postponement proposals. I just want to say – so it's been said from the pulpit – that all parties in the opposition have been invited to meetings to discuss formulations that could be agreed on. The Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have chosen not to join them. It must mean that no variants – and I also respect that – of proposals that halt the closure were relevant. I understand that is the result of a vision that is about not being able to vote in favour of proposals that go into individual decisions. But then I very much support proposal No. 12, because it is part of a simple decision, and we are asked to vote in favour of measures to implement the transition in the best possible way. In my view, it is to say yes to the conversion. We are against that part of the transition that is about Rjukan and Kragerø, and then, of course, we cannot vote in favour of that proposal. Finally, to the Minister of Health: it is possible that the Right has never been in the hospital plan, as it has been described in public. However, the right has to take responsibility for the statements you made in the election campaign. Then we have to understand that Bent Höie has fallen for the temptation to say things that Right did not mean, but as they knew that many people in Norway believe. What is now described, when you try to prove that comparison with your national transport plan, is to present a national transport plan that says that there should be road, motorway and rail around the country, but that doesn't say anything about where those roads and railways should be. Of course, it would have been a completely meaningless document.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3192	What is clear today is that there is a plurality in Stortinget that approves the closure of Rjukan and Kragerø hospitals. It is done just before the government will produce a national health and hospital plan, and it is done with the voices of the Right, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party. The problem is that not all parties say this at all, but only vote for it. Health Minister Höie has fully retreated in relation to the content of a national hospital plan. I'm sorry about that. He blames the Center Party – that we have misled the Labour Party. But I honestly think the Minister of Health must take a round with all the media houses in Norway, who have managed to twist all his statements in such a way, and thus tricked all his constituents. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party say verbally that it is not appropriate to approve the construction of local hospitals without being sure that the preparedness has been maintained – but that is exactly what they are voting for today. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party are therefore co-responsible for the closure of emergency receptions in Telemark, Rjukan and Kragerø. I think it's an honest thing to want to lay down a local hospital, but I think that then we have to be able to say it high. Our proposal does not prevent the development of Telemark. We take out the two hospitals, so the point that we want to prevent development in the Ski, doesn't hold goals. Many people talk about prehospital services, but this will never be a substitute for a full emergency reception. I hope no one has thought of switching in two emergency receptions to a new air ambulance station in Telemark. Here we have to listen to Mads Gilbert. In the case of the Workers' Party, which does not want the Storting to treat such things as hospital closures, they are later today on a proposal to reopen a train station in Buskerud. Train stations are going to Stortinget, but not local hospitals. Before the session, they also put forward a proposal that the Storting should change the flag laws, so that the municipality of Drammen could flag with pennies in its flag bars. Flag rods are for Stortinget, but not for the closure of local hospitals. When it comes to the proposals, the Central Party will not vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal, as we look at the wording that is an approval for the closure of emergency reception facilities in Rjukan and Kragerø. That's why we can't vote for it. When it applies to the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, it is meaningless. If you are viewing the government platform, it will be more detailed. I rather vote for the government platform – it is much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3209	The argument of the government to shut down the hospitals is quality. It is repeated and repeated that the economy should not be an argument. As mentioned, I have here the discussion protocol No. 3 from May 14, where the opposite is covered. The representative of Aasland said that that protocol was proof of what was happening in the hospital. Yes, it is – in this way that the economic situation of the Hospital Telemark is very demanding, just as it is in other surrounding companies outside Oslo University Hospital, because the exceedances at Oslo University Hospital have been so great and the political pressure so great that Health South-East has to collect money there. It has gone down, among other things. Telemark Hospital. Then we're just at what's the matter – it's economics. So the representative Sundbø Abrahamsen said it had been an open process. The last local management at Rjukan Hospital learned early that there was no development plan, but it was a resolution plan. Her conduct led to a staff case, and she published a book – it is very strong to read. Then a seafarer took away the local management, and in the hospital, taking away local management is one of the most important steps, for thus taking away the manager of the team that is to ensure development in that hospital, and replacing it with a clinic management. In Buskerud we have a hospital called Ringerijk Hospital, with a leader who is among the highest in Norway. One may ask the person if he is in charge of local management or clinic structure management. One will get a clear answer. There is no other reason to be in charge of clinic management than to provide the basis for changes in the offer and closure of offers in the small hospitals. I'll say it so that there's a high temperature in this debate, and so we get a clarification of what's behind the fine words. The centralization parties are nervous of the people's will and the popular commitment. The debate will continue – the debate will have to go and the temperature will have to be even higher in even more places to ensure more equivalent emergency and food supplies across the whole country. For this is security, and that's why people respond. And it is strong to experience that in the plan that applies to Telemark, all processes are followed, but people experience that they are not being heard. It is fundamentally problematic for the entire management of the Norwegian hospital system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3220	It was an opinion from the representative of Aasland who made me take the floor, because even though he said it very loud, it is not correct, what he said, namely that I have said that the national health and hospital plan should not contain anything about local hospitals. It's completely wrong. In particular, the national health and hospital plan shall have an essential part to play in the further functioning of local hospitals and their impact on emergency and emergency issues in their communities. So the national health and hospital plan should not least address the level of our hospitals and their development further. I think there are great opportunities in a situation, which several have been faced with, where one sees a centralization of the special — some of which is most dramatic and rare — but at the same time sees a significant decentralization of what most of us often need in health care. In such a development, local hospitals have a good future, if we can draw up good lines for this from the Stortinge side. That's what we're going to invite into the National Health and Hospital Plan, which is presented next year. So it must not be left with the impression that local hospitals should not have a central place in their national health and hospital plans. Several have also been concerned about the situation at Sørlande Hospital. There are no concrete plans to change the hospital in Flekkefjord now. I myself have visited the hospitals in Sørlanden recently and received good information about the start of a planning phase at Sørlanden Hospital. No significant conclusions will be drawn until the Storting has addressed the national health and hospital plan. The conclusions must, of course, be in line with the guidelines drawn up by the Stortinget in its national health and hospital plan. That's just the way the thinking is. As I said in my post: The Storting did a good job when it came to the birth announcement, a more democratic anchoring of the development of a significant part of the specialist health service. When this was anchored in the Stortinget, when the overall lines were drawn, of course, it leads to concrete change and development in the offer locally. But then one knows that there's a change that is also wanted by the Storting, by the Storting has drawn up the lines. Just like that, you also have to think about national health and hospital plans. I am very pleased that there is such a great commitment to the Storting to get such a plan, but it will not be wise, as the Workers' Party's proposal No. 11 requires an interim report on that plan in the State budget already until the harvest. There is a plan that should be anchored through good processes, and then it is time to address that question when the plan is presented to the Stortinget next year, and not take a small part and let it become part of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3231	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3234	I've been in the boards of several health companies over the last eight years. My comment is that I have hardly seen one discussion protocol in the companies in which I have been in the boards, which have not expressed any concern for the economy. Everyone's done that. It is the balancing process of governance to ensure quality with the tight economy that has been and is the challenge. I wonder if the Center Party has forgotten what they've been doing in the last eight years. In fact, there have been 13 changes in food and emergency services in Health-Norway. It's also conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3241	The representative, Mr V. Bollestad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3244	When the Christian People's Party does not support the Workers' Party's proposal No. 11, it's because we trust that local hospitals come as part of the national health and hospital plan – and it should just be missing, because they are one of the most important things we have out there, and that is to be part of the whole health chain on which our country is to build. When we support proposal No. 12, it's because we don't even want the Oslo process, where it wasn't the means of conversion. That is why we have chosen to say that we will vote in favour of proposal No. 12th@item: inlistbox We will also vote in favour of proposal No. 10, from the Right and Advance Party, because it is important to put in place a health and hospital plan. As a former head of a large emergency department, I think people in Rjukan are connected to and part of the emergency service at Rjukan, which will ensure that we get good services at Telemark Hospital in Skien. It's best for people in Rjukan, I'm absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3253	The representative Kjersti Toppe has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3256	I take the floor to say something to Minister of Health Bent Höie, who says that there is no need to worry that local hospitals should not have a central place in their national health and hospital plans. Well, I'm really worried about that. What's happening today is that we accept the closure of hospitals on the basis of some quality requirements, as I said in my main post, which is so hugely tall and special that getting hospitals in Norway will actually be able to meet them. It's a brilliant way to lay down hospitals. You can either drop them down or create some quality requirements for how to organise them, which no one will be able to meet. There is also a clear signal to all other regional health services and businesses in Norway that the Stortinget has today demonstrated to all worlds that it does not intervene, even when it is about the closure of hospitals and the centralisation of preparedness — an area that is geographically demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3265	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3269	Politicians are very good at talking about processes, they're very good at creating incredibly comprehensive processes, but there's a lot of practitioners who quickly review whether there's a real process, or whether it's a skin process. When the Council of State talks about anchoring the plan in good processes, I would at least advise that then a lesson must be learned from the skin processes that have been carried out. And if skin processes are to be carried out where a person makes professional demands that are not anchored in political decisions, one helps to take this trust away. To Ørmen Johnsen: Yes, it is true that many food and emergency services were put in place under the red-green government, and it is not known that the Center Party fought against several of the closures, among others. Nordfjordeid. What's happening now is that it's not in small places anymore. Now there are increasing places – Kongsberg is one of them. The representative Mr. Ormmen Johnsen has gone in to shut it down too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3276	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3290	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3297	A good day in April, just before the consultation deadline for the proposals of the Government, the Minister of Health and the Right on the availability of reservations for permanent staff – a proposal that is widely discussed and debated throughout the winter – we actually experienced the government's wisdom. It went away from the proposal and put it in the drawer. I think that was good. I would like to congratulate once again all those who stood in front of all Norway on a proposal they considered immature and who did not belong to the future. I'm not going to spend any more time on it. This matter is about the fact that this process has revealed that there are some doctors who have been driving what I call illegal reservation, and who apparently still operate with it. That is why I believe that the matter has not been completely resolved, and that is why this proposal that we are discussing is important. Through the media, we have seen a lot of decision-makers who make reservations in violation of the current legislation. It seems to me very unclear how the Minister of Health and Welfare and the supervisory authorities deal with these offences. For example, VG mentioned: 3 April this year a case in which a fixed person refuses to apply a spiral, and the newspaper claims that ‘Høie has no plans to do anything with this or other matters’. We feel this is too passive and are concerned that the Minister of Health and Welfare has apparently not done anything to correct the lack of follow-up from the supervisory authorities in cases where the decision-makers unjustly refuse, for example. to prescribe contraception or to provide assistance in the event of termination of pregnancy. We also believe that it is incomprehensible that the Minister of Health and Welfare in the media creates an uncertainty about the right to refuse certain things. I do not know that in any law or regulation there is coverage for such an interpretation of the law as the minister suggests. On the contrary, circular I-4/2011 is quite clear that the rules apply to all permanent members without exception. Therefore, I believe that if the Minister of Health and Health disagrees with the circular, a law or a regulation, he must have a new circular, a new law or a new regulation drawn up. We cannot have a government that speculates that non-competitors with a common list can refuse services to the inhabitants without referring to legal sources that provide evidence of this. I believe that the Minister of Health and Health, as the top human health officer of the State, must ensure that it is properly supervised and has sufficient resources to carry out its mission. Although individual cases are decided independently of the Minister of Health and Welfare, the State Council has the highest political responsibility. That is why I also point out that the then Minister of Health and Care, Ström-Erichsen, was supported by the then head of the committee, Höie, when she then instructed the Health Inspectorate in the interpretation of the legislation relating to the reservation of permanent doctors through the current circular. In February we discussed in this room the case of reservation rights for permanent residents, Document 8:2 S for 2013–2014. Then the Minister of Health and Health said that the right of reservation was: ‘It was about a custom reservation right, where the individual doctor, without any regulation, could reserve himself against anything — everything from spiraling and printing of pills to referring to abortion and assisted fertilisation, where one could also discriminate between lesbian couples and heterophilic couples. That's what this government cleans up." This is very good and very clear in Stortinget. But I'm worried when you give the impression of something else in the media. That is why I am concerned that adequate supervision and response to illegal reservations in the municipal health service are being provided, and that is why we are concerned that the Health Authority carries out a country-wide supervision that monitors doctors' reservation against both possession of abortion and other issues, and that is why we are concerned that the government is promoting proposals for possible legislative changes that the government considers necessary in order to effectively enforce the legislation that prohibits just that type of practice. It is serious when determining which services it provides to its patients at random, as it may in some cases appear. Unfortunately, even though such practices have not been allowed, several examples have emerged, as I mentioned earlier. Although restrictions have been implemented, such as: by clarifications from the previous government in circulars about this very theme, it has not had the desired effect. Therefore, there is a need to take new action. That is why I am pleased that SV submitted the proposal for document 8, and we are in agreement with SV on several proposals, which I am referring to here. So I think it's best for the government parties to explain what their view of the matter is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3321	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3324	For years, there has been a practice in Norway in which permanent practitioners have reserved themselves against both referring to abortion, using spirals, prescribing pills and referring to assisted fertilisation. This has not only been contrary to legislation, but it has also been done without any certainty that women have been granted their rights and without any information to patients. There is no doubt that hearings and discussions related to the government's proposal on reservation options clearly showed us that today's practice has not worked. Therefore the proposal was not immature, as Torgeir Micasen says. There was a need for a clean-up, and the government has been very clear on that. Perhaps this is also the background that SV now wants what they call effective enforcement of the reservation ban. It could be tempting to ask why SV did not take any more active and effective action to ensure this precisely when they were in government. Perhaps it was that without the publicity created around the matter in the last six months, the problem would still pass under the radar, both for SV and others. In that case, it is sad for the girls and women who have experienced difficult encounters over the years, but it is good that we can now get really cleaned up. After major debate on the possibility of reservation, we are pleased that the government has listened to the hearings and that the government's new proposals are being sent to the hearing before the summer with a view to their launch on 1 January 2015. I would like to make a few comments on this proposal, because it is very relevant to the matter we are dealing with today. The government's proposal is to remove the scheme for the doctor to sign the abortion application form and refer the woman to the hospital. This is a solution that respects both the rights of women seeking abortion and doctors who, for reasons of conscience, find it difficult to refer to abortion. It's the very reference to abortions by which several registrars have had serious convicts, and wanted to reserve themselves against. When it is removed, the wishes and needs of these doctors also disappear. It will prevent women from meeting inadvertently with doctors who wish to make a reservation and the lapse of referral will prevent reservations from being practised in violation of the legislation. In this proposal, the government has also notified a clarification of the responsibilities of the municipalities to ensure that the practice of decision-makers is in line with the legislation, and that the possibility for municipalities to terminate fixed-term contracts if they become aware that doctors do not comply with the rules should be clarified. In our opinion, this SV wishes to clarify clearly the penalties for breaches of the rules. Many feel that the cooperation agreement between the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party was demanding at the point of reservation for real estate agents. The last time we debated the topic, it was also difficult to hear the need to clean up the unsustainable practice of untransparency that had existed for many years. SV's proposals and media issues in the last few months have shown that this was needed. SV, with the support of the Workers' Party, is now promoting proposals for increased resources both for the Health Authority and for the State to ensure that the legislation is complied with. However, the government has already announced that it will follow this closely, by requesting the State Health Authority to carry out an appropriate supervisory follow-up, in the autumn of 2016, of the offer of local authorities and local authorities to women who assess or wish to interrupt pregnancy, and any unlawful reservation on grounds of conscience. Probably we agree with this room today that it is important to clean up the practice that has existed until now. The majority trust that the solution promoted by the government will safeguard women's rights and therefore vote against the proposals of the minority in this case, with the important reason that we believe the government is now clearing up this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3345	Today, we are considering an SV representative proposal to introduce an effective enforcement of the reservation ban for doctors. SV has now found out that they themselves have not been able to do anything about this matter, and now the new government needs to take action, and SV now has the answer to how this should be done. The reason why SV has now found this necessary are the matters they have read about in the media. The working party and SV show in their comments, among others. to a look-up in the VG on 3 April and they are concerned that the Minister of Health has apparently not done anything to correct the lack of follow-up by the supervisory authorities. However, if one goes into this article, we can read that the Minister of Health, on the contrary, responds that today’s legislation does not open up to reserve itself against using spirals for reasons of conscience. Furthermore, he says that when two county doctors responsible for enforcing and controlling today's rules treat such matters differently, it shows that today's legislation does not work in practice. So then we really agree. Everyone now seems to believe that today’s practice is not good enough, and therefore it has been both right and important to find good solutions. This has been clear to the Minister of Health all along, so proposals for solutions have been sent to the hearing, and the hearing bodies have been heard – a democratic and good process, which the Workers' Party and the SV find difficult to understand, we should read their comments. In these days, a proposal to remove the scheme for doctors to sign the form for the request for abortion is sent out to the hearing. Many women already have direct contact with the hospital today, as we are aware that this form is in principle unnecessary. When we remove the referral form, we also remove the grounds of conscience doctors to request a reservation. Furthermore, the proposal which has now been sent to the hearing will clarify the responsibilities of the municipalities to ensure that the practice of the decision-makers is in line with the legislation and the ability of the municipalities to terminate the decision-making agreement is clarified. I therefore believe that the wish of the proposers for a clear clarification of the penalties has been taken into account. In addition, the Minister of Health in his letter of 23 May indicated that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has requested the State Health Authority to carry out an appropriate supervisory follow-up in the autumn of 2016 on the offer of local authorities and local authorities to women and any unlawful reservations for reasons of conscience. The hearing period is set at September 15th, and I attend the recordings that will be made there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3364	This case has almost lost some of its strength after the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party reached an agreement that says doctors should not refer to abortion. All doctors shall have conversations with their patients, they shall carry out the necessary examinations, and they shall write a medical note to accompany the woman’s request to discontinue pregnancy. The Christian People's Party had probably wanted the conscience to be more important than abortion, but that's what we got the majority for and agreed to when we negotiated in the Nydalen. Now there was a proposal to consult the government that the Christian People's Party wants to comment a little on this particular matter. The Christian People’s Party will draw attention to the fact that the State Health Authority, as referred to here, has objections to a point in the consultation note – it was in the previous hearing note that was out – where one says that one should be able to cancel doctors who make reservations or who do not carry out hospitalisation. The Health Authority writes in a letter to the Ministry of Health and Welfare on 2 May 2014 that they consider it very problematic to force municipalities to cancel doctors when these doctors have ensured that women have other alternatives. The Director of the Health Authority says: ‘If you interpret the legislation in such a way that the doctor loses the authorisation if he does not apply a spiral, but instead sends the patient to the neighbouring doctor, it will have consequences. In some municipalities it may be important for the overall health service, and we have notified it to the department». The Christian People’s Party believes that we should listen to the Health Authority and take seriously that we have no flukes around. It is a paradox for the Christian People's Party that, on the one hand, if I had been a doctor, I can say that I must unfortunately let you go to a colleague because I have no knowledge of or ability to add a spiral, and it is accepted. But if I tell the patient that I unfortunately don't have the conscience to add a spiral, that's against my conviction, but I'm sending you to my colleague, it's not acceptable. And both things go out on women. For the Christian People's Party, then, the question is to make sure that it is one who does the task, which has been important to us, while at the same time caring for the doctor's conscience. So the Health Authority now says that it's hard to cancel a doctor, because we haven't had any trouble with them. And it shouldn't be allowed to refer to other doctors of conscientious qualms. I have met some women who disagree with their firmness in the sight of spirals, but who, at the same time, disagree with their doctor in the sight of spirals, for some do not want to lose their firmness. They think it's all right to have to go to other doctors or to a gynecologist to get a spiral, but they don't want to lose their fix. There will be a problematic situation for them, because the decision maker means so much to them regardless of this view. That is why the Christian People's Party says that we wish we could debate some of these issues even when we get a discussion about the place of conscience in the Norwegian working life. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not support any of the proposals available from the Workers' Party and SV. We want to leave it as it says in the setting. And then at the same time, we want to be able to take such difficult debates on conscience. There must also be room for discussion on Norwegian health issues in those debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3386	In this case, the Central Party will pay attention to the fact that the government has recently sent out a proposal to remove the scheme for the firm to sign the abortion request form. We will await the hearing on this proposal and see what the government is actually doing for the Storting before we consider the need for practical follow-up and any need for new ways of sanctioning. In the comments, we support the Right, the Progress Party and the Left in that, instead of a nationwide supervision required by the proposers, the State Health Authority will carry out in the autumn of 2016 an appropriate supervisory follow-up of the provision of local authorities and local authorities to women who assess or wish to interrupt pregnancy, and any unlawful reservation on grounds of conscience. In addition to this, the Central Party will not vote for the proposals of the Labour Party and SV in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3395	I can agree with everything that was said in the excellent posts of the representative, Micaelsen, so I will try to be brief. A great deal has happened since this proposal was presented, which substantially alters the basis for the debate we now have. The government has withdrawn its proposal for reservation access. It was a great victory not primarily for the opposition, but for the great popular mobilization that was out there in society. It also showed that the government and government parties grossly misjudged the mood among people and the involvement of Norwegian women. But even if the government parties made such an error assessment, they should also have a reward for having the courage to turn around. It takes a little while to admit that the policy has been misplaced. However, it is important to stress that the debate is not over. We meet with the new proposal that now comes from the government and will take a final decision on it when it is available in a final version after the consultation round. It is also important to stress that there are issues related to this with reservations that we must not get caught up in even though the debate has now calmed down considerably. This applies not only to the reservation practised against referral to abortion, but also to the fact that there are doctors who reserve both the right to prevent it, to contribute to assisted fertilisation and also to LAR treatment for drug addicts. That is why we are committed to enabling the Health Authority to detect illegal reservation, we are committed to tightening up against the municipalities the responsibility they have to handle this, and we are committed to the fact that illegal reservation is actually to be sanctioned. All of this comes from the three joint proposals of the Workers' Party and SV. At the same time, I would like to say that I am pleased that the government has said, and the Minister of Health has said, that it will be implemented nationally. I think that's good. We meet with anticipation when it's going to happen, and in what way. But very far on the way, the government has already come to meet this proposal. Finally, in a few of the posts here, I noticed a sort of attempt to re-open the debate on why the discussion of reservation came up this winter. It was not because SV and the Workers' Party suddenly came up with this issue when the government made a bad proposal. The person who raised this on the agenda was former Minister of Health Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen. We have no problems admitting that what she started was not enough to stop illegal reservation, but it was she, and the then majority, who took hold of this, and who ordered the municipalities to clean up, and when it turned out that it did not work, we moved on to what we are dealing with today, and which the government parties are now about to join, namely that the state must take responsibility, among other things. through the State Health Authority. There's no doubt that the government's bad proposals helped out on engagement among people, and as the situation is now, we might say that it was a good thing, but it's going to be a completely wrong show to try to make it look like the majority in the last period didn't take hold of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3412	The Government, as it is known, will issue during June a hearing note proposing to remove the referral from the Permanent Decree when women request abortion. This is a solution that respects both the rights of women seeking abortion and doctors who, for reasons of conscience, find it difficult to refer to abortion. The current right that it is not possible for decision-makers to reserve themselves against inserting spirals, prescribing pills or referring to assisted fertilisation will also be clarified. Furthermore, the consultation note will clarify the local authority's responsibility to ensure that decision-makers do not make reservations in breach of the legislation. Access to enforcement of the regulatory framework of supervision and non-reservation of public lists will be clarified. In addition, the Ministry of Health has requested the State Health Authority to carry out an appropriate supervisory follow-up in the autumn of 2016. This shall include the provision of local authorities and local authorities to women who assess or seek termination of pregnancy, and, where appropriate, unlawful reservation for reasons of conscience. I believe that the supervisory authorities have the best competence to plan and assess what is an appropriate supervisory follow-up in 2016. Such planned supervision shall, of course, be in addition to the regular oversight and handling by the supervisory authorities of supervisory matters relating to illegal reservation. The government will also propose the creation of a green telephone number service for women seeking advice and guidance on abortion. The service shall be capable of transferring the women to the relevant hospital or counselling service if she so wishes. The Government will also, in agreement with the Christian People's Party, set up a public body to investigate the ethical and practical aspects of freedom of thought and conscience in the course of carrying out work in general. These are measures that clear up a practice that has not worked satisfactorily for many years and that will ensure rapid and accessible health care for women in important areas. In my view, this also reflects the wish of the proposers to clarify more clearly the need to enforce the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3431	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3435	I have just one simple question: If the government or the Stortinget had come up with increased resources for the Health Authority, could supervision start earlier than planned, in the light of the views of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3440	It is very important that we do not go too far in governing the priorities of the Health Authority and the way the supervision works. It has to do with the importance of the independence of supervision and the trust of supervision in society. It also appears in the letter that the supervision sent to the ministry, because it is important to reconcile these issues. Then it is also my opinion that having an oversight in the autumn of 2016 is a good time because then the new legislation has worked, it has been settled, the municipalities have become aware of it, and the local authorities have become aware of it. It will be a suitable and good time for such supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3447	But do I then understand correctly that there is no shortage of resources to do this only in 2016? And I repeat the question: is it that if the Storting doesn't review or instruct, but provides more resources, could this oversight have been carried out from the fall or the beginning of next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3454	If the Storting makes more resources available to the Health Authority, it is not certain that the Health Authority would have prioritised the use of those resources in an area where there will soon be a change of rules and a new practice. It might well be that they saw that there were other aspects of health care that were more important to supervise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3459	I'd like to follow up the last one, because the rule change the government has announced, will not deal with the reservations that are made on a different basis than abortion. Today’s legislation will be in place – linked, for example, to: to prevent, to LAR and to assist in fertilisation. This means that time is quite important in the implementation of such supervision. So it's relevant to ask the Minister of Health if he doesn't think 2016 is long longer when it's actually about getting cleaned up in that side of this, which I know the Minister of Health also has an engagement to end up with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3466	It is not correct that the changes will not mention these conditions. As I also said in my article, the legislation will be clarified in terms of the possibility of booking, including in these areas. It will also become clearer what is the responsibility of the municipality in that context. The supervision is not only responsible to the individual doctor, it also has a supervisory responsibility for how the municipalities perform their role. There will also be clarifications related to this, which has been a central theme, namely doctors who have common lists. These changes, which are now being sent out at the hearing and which will hopefully be implemented next year, will also cover the issues raised by the representative in the reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3473	I shall then refer you to proposal No. 3 in the suspension, from the Workers' Party and SV, which is about a request to ‘precise to the supervisory authorities that violations of the rules relating to the different reservations of doctors are to be sanctioned’. We've stumbled a little bit over the fact that the government parties won't support it. Is it because the government parties are against it, or is it because the government intends to implement it, and that's why it's not enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3480	Now I'm going to be careful to express myself on behalf of the members of the government parties in the committee, but I just want to say that traditionally, the government parties have confidence that the government will follow up what the government has said it will follow up. It is also clear that any reaction to a breach of the rules will be part of the discussion in the hearing. So I believe that is the basis of the government parties that they do not vote for a proposal that they believe goes on relations that will be well cared for by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3485	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3488	During the 2013 election campaign, current Prime Minister Erna Solberg said to the World Gang that people have no bearings. The issue was whether priority should be given to the elderly, to health and to school in front of tax cuts. In 2014, the rapporteur in Bergen, Trude Drevland, said that the right of reservation for doctors was an arrangement that belonged to the past and that it was laid down. We had a record attendance on Women's Day, where they demonstrated for women's rights to choose and control their own bodies. Then the current Prime Minister, Solberg, said that people have not understood. Let me begin by saying that I am happy that the Minister of Health has understood. I am glad that the Minister of Health has turned the case around, that he also believes that women's rights to control their own bodies are most important. That's what this is all about. It is about the safety of vulnerable young women, it is about predictability. Let me praise the representative of Bollestad. I accept that we have a fundamental disagreement relating to the freedom of conscience for doctors, but in that case the representative Bollestad is promoting a very good proposal to address some of the core of the problem: high abortion rates. I think that's some kind of political exercise, it says respect for – that you're constructive, that you're gripping the core of the problem, and you're not taking up what happened in 2011, or the intensification of rules, or who's that kind of fault, who's been focusing on it, and whether it's SV's proposal or not, but that you sit down and practice policies to ensure the security of girls. I think that is an example of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3499	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3526	At the request of the Health and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3535	Psychiatric disorders are one of the major public diseases in Norway today. According to the Institute of Public Health, about half of the population will suffer from a mental illness during life, and one in three will suffer in one year. Annual social costs of mental illness in Norway are estimated to be between 60 and 70 billion. kr. I want to quote Anders Skuterud, who is the head of the Norwegian Psychologists' Association. He says, ‘There are still deep gaps in the knowledge of what kind of offers are given to help people with mental disorders’. At the same time, he sends a challenge to his own members to help close the holes. In particular, there is an offer to those with mild mental disorders, and how much of the effort can be done locally and close to the individual. It is good that more and more actors are engaged in developing more knowledge about mental disorders, and in particular about the offer at local level, because it is very diverse. I am pleased that the Committee has had two proposals in parallel on mental health. There is broad consensus in the Committee on the need to strengthen, in particular, the first-line municipal services in the field of mental health, and that this must be done through long-term and long-term measures. The Committee emphasises the particular importance of action aimed at children and young people and health work at school. In addition, it is important to strengthen services in municipalities with a low or no threshold. The aim of lowthreshold services is that all municipality residents can come into contact with healthcare professionals with the competence to prevent, investigate and treat mental disorders. Strengthening the lowthreshold offer will also relieve specialist health services. Furthermore, an overall committee has clear expectations for the major health and public health messages, as well as national health and hospital plans, to be presented in the Stortinget in 2015, and is clear that mental health work and mental health protection must have a reasonable place in these plans, both in terms of capacity, structure and organisation. In terms of how to build up the capacity of the first line service, there is some disagreement within the committee. The majority point to different challenges in municipalities and, therefore, a differentiated approach is important. Some municipalities have already developed a good first line offer in the area, while others have barely started. My own municipality, the municipality of Gjøvik, with 30,000 inhabitants and almost 4,000 students, has only now applied for state grants to recruit its first municipal psychologist in 2014, while the municipality of Fjell outside Bergen, with 23 000 inhabitants, has been targeted since 2006, and today has five employees psychologists and a wide and comprehensive range of services specifically aimed at children, young people and families. The majority point to the fact that, in practice, mental health work is now escalating and that, pending the forthcoming plans in this area, there is no time for the adoption of an escalation plan at present. There is agreement on the need for a long-term and long-term investment. The majority believe that a five-year project-based escalation is not the best solution now, when we are in the middle of important planning processes. The Committee agrees with the need to strengthen the provision of services for children and young people, in particular increased resources for health centres and school health services. However, it is also important to bring forward the educational-psychological service in the municipalities as a particularly important actor who has a different opportunity than pre-school teachers and teachers to follow-up and lead the whole follow-up work around pupils who need to step up their efforts early. Many actors are active and contribute to action, but often there will be long waiting times for both investigation and action pending coordination between actors. There is a need for more research and knowledge about how to better organise efforts as early as possible, and best possible around individuals. It is also important to point to the social professional competence of socionomists and child protection educators. As mental disorders are among the population, it is also natural that this is more reflected in public health work. I am therefore pleased that the government now includes and equates mental health in public health work in the notified public health report. I would also like to add that in a subsequent case, reference is made to a youth health strategy. I also think it is important that we have a majority for that in the UK, and ask the government to come back with a youth health strategy that further puts the spotlight on the special offer to children and young people. I've been around different municipalities lately, both in Mountain, Kongsvinger and Tromsø, and I've heard a lot of good and a little concerns about different services in the municipalities, about special challenges for young people. In Tromsø I was told that the health station in Tromsø has open summer time. They use psychology students and medical students to keep the health center open. They say that's a big need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3569	The proposers of Document 8:54 S for 2013–2014 indicate that mental illness is one of the major public diseases and that a large proportion of the Norwegian population will be affected by a mental illness during life. Furthermore, proposers show that there is a particular need to strengthen prevention and lowthreshold provision in municipalities. An overall committee agrees with the proposers that, in the future, there will be a particular need to strengthen prevention and low-threshold provision in municipalities, as also referred to in several hearing bodies, where it is pointed out that it is in the primary health service that most people can and should be helped to master their mental disorders. The Committee also points out that the intention of the Interaction Reform on the coordination of health services is particularly important for people with mental health problems over a period of time. Reference is made to the need for seamless transitions between service levels in order to avoid unnecessary waiting time and aggravation of distress. Furthermore, a Joint Committee considers that co-location and multidisciplinary cooperation are good for those in need of assistance and refers to the notified notification of the primary health service of the future as central to the development of co-located services for the population — including that health centres, which define the sharing of premises with psychologists, health sisters and psychiatric nurses, could be an important measure to prevent fragmentation. Too many people with mental health challenges get too sick before they get help and get into specialist healthcare. When the Prime Minister raised mental health in his New Year's speech, it was of great importance to remove prejudices and create transparency. At the same time, it was a clear expression of a political priority on which this government has committed itself. Therefore, in the 2014 budgetary procedure, the government reintroduced EUR 340 million of funding for drug and psychiatry treatment. NOK, and we granted an additional grant of SEK 200 million. kr to the same in the revised budget. It's a total of 540 million. kr. In its hospital speech, the Minister of Health stressed that the growth in mental health protection and drug treatment should be higher than that of somatic care, and in his speech at the conference of the year, the Minister of Health pointed out to the SINTEF report last autumn, which states that one in four posts in the specialist health service could be avoided if the offer had been better in the municipalities. Minister of Health Bent Höie has said: ‘That is why we need to build easily accessible lowthreshold facilities where people live. It includes increased efforts to recruit psychologists to the municipalities.’ The government has strengthened the health care and mental health services in schools. It has announced that there will be a major report on primary health services, a public health report, a youth health strategy, a health and hospital plan – and finally free treatment options, which will give priority to mental illness and drug addicts. All these are important measures to provide a good response for mental health services in municipalities – and also show that there will be no need for a 5-year mental health escalation plan in municipalities, as proposed in Document 8:41 S for 2013–2014. There is a strong consensus in the Committee that the threshold for getting help with mental health challenges is too high and that there are too many people who need to get seriously ill before they get help. The government therefore works as described — in the short and long term — both in the municipalities and in the specialist healthcare service to strengthen the supply of mental health. The Committee, with the exception of the member of the Central Party, shall be composed of a proposal in which: ‘The government is asked to step up the first line of mental health services with a focus on quality, prevention and interaction with specialist health services and with a special priority for children and young people’. I would like to promote that proposal by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3603	The representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3606	I am pleased that the Committee has followed the comments and the call from the Workers' Party to look at the issues that have arisen in the context. We're also very happy that the committee could write together. In the Health Committee, as I see it, there is a great commitment to mental disorders and to helping people. There are also great expectations, because we've got a health minister who has a great and real commitment to people with mental disorders. Then it is good to see that proposals from the Left and from the Labour Party are treated on the same line, and that together we can stand up for good suggestions, stand up to strengthen the first line, and to enable those who work closest to our citizens – those who work closest to the people in the municipalities – to do an even better job. Some of the major challenges you will realize when working with health policy in Norway are, in the opinion of the representative, all the valleys we have in the healthcare system. There is a great, great need for more bridges – several bridges that bind skills, units and centers together. In the specialist health service, there is an enormous competence that could help a municipality make plans, rehabilitating schools and kindergartens, and making life even better – where health is created. The small disagreement contained in any of these proposals is about the strict requirements for kindergartens, employees and competences. But let's not focus on it today. In this room, we have stood up together to take action to help those who have gone the farthest down on the dark path you can encounter with mental problems. Today we're going to sew together a safety net to save even more people from going down that path and getting more people back to work. It is precisely the whole committee that agrees that everyone should go along with it. One of the things that pleases me the most is that we focus on early efforts, on helping children and young people, on seeing those who do not have their own voice, and those who are often down-prioritised in the system – this is also what the police say, among other things. in the case of assaults. Making sure that children and young people — the future — are given priority is also important in order to have something to build on in the future. Once again, we in the Workers' Party are very happy that it is possible to write together, and that we can see past political dividing lines to take Norway and the Municipality of Norway some steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3619	Should the representative address the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3622	I'm sorry, President. I understood that the committee was behind the proposal as the rapporteur for case No. 7 just out of the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3627	There is a proposal from the minority in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3630	Yes, we're dealing with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3636	The representative of Audun Otterstad then raised a proposal on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3639	Psychiatric health has become more and more prominent over the past 20 years as a result of major changes in a modern society. Some people owe their careers to me and the desire for success in all areas as a cause of burnout and subsequent mental disorders. Others suffer from severe mental stress from heavy personal experiences, bullying, breakup or loss of work or close to family and friends. Whatever the reason, the new government is taking mental illness very seriously. This is also why the government has identified mental health as one of its main areas of activity. It's necessary when mental disorders are one of our major public diseases and a disorder that very many people will sometime in life become acquainted with, either by themselves being affected or by someone close to you being. Psychiatric disorders are the most expensive of all disease groups in Norway. This makes the need to strengthen prevention and lowthreshold services in municipalities extremely important. It is therefore gratifying that the government has announced a stepping-up for mental health in the municipalities, which will be made visible in the communications on public health, the primary health service of the future and the notified national health and health plan. It is also reassuring that the government in the municipal bill for 2015 announced 400 million. extra for the strengthening of health stations and school health services as well as mental health measures in municipalities. The government is also paying 20 million. kr on psychiatrybulances in the revised budget. It is an action for which the Progress Party has been working for a long time. Many people experience frustration at the health service meeting when they are affected by mental illness. They're going to be throwing balls, sent from place to place. It underpins the need to strengthen the mental health provision in municipalities by establishing seamless transitions between service levels to avoid unnecessary waiting time and worsening of distress. Many people in need of mental health care also seek refuge from leisure activities, from association with friends and other socialisation. You may feel ashamed not to be at work, but you have a diagnosis that is not visible to everyone. It is easier to get accepted to be home from work with your broken leg – it is reasonably visible. Therefore, it is important that we are all fellow human beings when a colleague, a friend or a family member is affected by mental illness. Security and stability are key words for many mentally ill people to return to school or work more quickly. Unfortunately, too many have, for too long, been waiting for the provision of mental health care. This is why it is a positive signal when the government opens up that municipalities with capacity and competence can be given responsibility for district psychiatric centres. In my home municipality, where well-known and reputable Modum Bad lives, you work to get this done. A low-threshold service is already established in cooperation between the municipality and Modum Bad, which provides the local population with mental health care about the day — when the need arises. It shows that it is possible, and the model can be copied by other municipalities with access to a psychiatric service offer in its vicinity. With regard to the proposal for a five-year municipal health promotion plan, such a plan would have a very different impact on municipalities, because many of them are at very different levels in their development of the mental health service. With the government's already solid commitment in this area, the Progress Party, together with the majority of the Committee, believes that there is no reason to adopt a separate plan for the next five years at this stage. An area that is too easily forgotten when we talk about mental health is the inclusion of – and care for – relatives. When someone suffers from mental illness, it also affects one's closest. There should be greater provision of training and organised work for employers who are encouraged to look favourably at finding solutions for relatives. There may also be some assessment of appropriate representative centres. Both sick and relatives shall meet with understanding, not condemnation. Psychiatric illness is still experienced by many who are shameful and taboo. It shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3662	Psychiatric disorders and mental illnesses are a societal challenge. The number of mentally ill people is constantly increasing, and we can ask ourselves why in a country like Norway. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to see the whole human being – mentally, physically, spiritually and socially. The Christian People's Party is pleased with the escalation plan that was for mental health from 1998 to 2008, and we don't think we would have gotten where we are today, if it hadn't been for that plan, which came with concrete measures. In addition to concrete measures, we gained transparency about mental disorders. It became a lift of competence and an action promise, but we are not yet on target. And as many people here have said, it's very different how far the municipalities have come. It is important for the Christian People's Party that we should raise mental health further. The Christian People's Party, like the rest of the Committee, is concerned that municipal first-line services must be provided with measures that are long-term, robust and therefore lasting and are easily accessible to people where they live. They should be part of the cooperation reform, and in the tasks given to municipalities, mental health must also be included. It is also important to find a good distribution of responsibilities between municipalities and specialist health services in mental health. What should be the responsibility of the DPS, and what should be the responsibility of the municipality? The Christian People's Party is also concerned that municipalities are often given responsibility for patients who are expelled from the specialist health service in the following words: no more to do from our side. These are seriously ill patients who may need 24/7 supervision, and it is important for the Christian People's Party that the municipalities have to define what their responsibility is, that we actually have to get knowledge and competence into the municipality to care for exactly these, and not least resources – because there are expensive patients. How municipalities can meet the challenge of raising their competences will also be an important part of requiring resources for municipalities. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to see mental health in the context of the plans already notified for primary and public health services, precisely because we are related as human beings. We can't just take away the psychological part, we have to be whole people where we are. We need to integrate mental health as an important part both in prevention and at the heart of primary health services, thereby defining responsibilities, sewing together good measures and following up patients in a holistic way. Nevertheless, we want to address something that I see becoming a problem right now, and there is interdisciplinary cooperation, because a letter from HELFO has been sent out about who is going to receive reimbursements for multidisciplinary cooperation. Sosionoms don't get it per day. It is not good enough for us to have interdisciplinary cooperation about the mentally ill, and I ask the Minister to address that particular issue if we are to succeed. The Christian People's Party will also problematize another area that is important to us. We all agree that we want to bet on children and young people, but when the Health Directorate issued in 2008 a guide to outpatients in mental health protection for children and young people, responsibility was not defined. Who is responsible for mental health in children under the age of 18 in municipalities? Is it a health sister? Is that the PPT service? Is it child protection? Is that the school health service? Is that the settler? We have to be able to define who is going to follow the kids. If we are to be able to have early action, we must also define who we can put in charge of not following up. The Christian People's Party wants to problematize this, along with the Left, because we see it's a challenge that it's not defined per day. Psychiatric health is about many things, from serious illness to mild suffering – as somatic disorders are also about heavy diseases and mild disorders. We need to be able to meet mental health in the same way that we have been able to create measures on somatic health. The Christian People's Party will give an explanation of vote. Christian People's Party will not support the proposal of the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and SV in the setting based on Document 8:41 S for 2013–2014. We are voting against a five-year plan. And then we support the committee proposal in the vote based on Document 8:54 S for 2013–2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3683	The centre party will have a concrete escalation plan for mental health, funded by new ear-marked means, and we will propose it in Document 8:41 S. Psychiatric disorders are one of the major health and social challenges in Norway. The evaluation of the mental health escalation plan from 1998 to 2008 shows that mental health was given a higher priority and a significant increase in the provision of services during that period. Annual efforts in municipal mental health work are increasing strongly during the period, but it has also been shown that there is still an undetected need for community services in the field of mental health after the escalation plan. There are also large differences between municipalities. Annual efforts in municipalities have not increased since 2007, and this is alarming. Thus, while patients are being printed more quickly than before by the specialist services, the municipal authorities do not use any more annual work for community mental health work. A municipal escalation plan must address prevention, diagnosis, early help and treatment, rehabilitation, follow-up, psychosocial support and counselling, and referral to the specialist services. Relatives must also be included in such a bet. Low-threshold provision must be established in the municipalities and, in particular, an offensive strategy must be adopted for the development and establishment of adequate housing facilities for people with mental disorders. The central party wants a municipal escalation plan to focus specifically on children and young people and to have a mandatory strengthening of the health centre and school health service. The age psychiatry and the mental health of immigrants must also be given special attention. In the proposal for a representative of the report ‘Better lead was’ from the Swedish Institute of Public Health, the central party refers to a comprehensive presentation of actions that can promote mental health and prevent mental distress and suffering. It's all about you. on high employment, health promotion schools, high-quality kindergartens, prevention of elderly people, home visits to preschool children, strengthening of parental skills, working with support, groups, courses and programmes for coping with anxiety and depression — among others. We stress that a new municipal escalation plan must pay particular attention to the quality of services and deal with a new policy of repatriation. The centre party will have a stepping-up plan with ear-marked means of mental health work. In this way, the municipalities themselves will be able to give priority to which areas within the field of mental health work that need to be strengthened most in their municipality according to local needs, and we believe that this is more accurate than ear-marked efforts on individual measures, as it has been experienced in recent years. The SINTEF report shows that the annual work effort in municipal mental health work has increased significantly over the period of the escalation, but that he has not increased since 2007, despite the fact that we have had several messages and legislative proposals to help strengthen the community health service, including mental health, such as interaction reform, public health law and new health and care services laws. According to the SINTEF report, 6.7 pst. of hospitalised patients in mental health protection are ready to print and waiting for a municipal service. Half are waiting for a place to live. According to the SINTEF report, the municipalities also report that there has been a strong conversion from the specialist services, and that the conversion has taken place quickly – without the municipality being adequately built up. The report also shows that one in four patients could be avoided being admitted to the specialist services if the municipal services had been developed. Today, there are two issues that are discussed together in the debate, and in case 7, the majority are in favour of the Storting asking the government to sort out a stepping up of the psychiatric first-line service. This is set up against the Central Party's proposal in the second case, where, together with the Workers' Party and SV, we are in favour of a 5-year municipal mental health escalation plan, funded by new, ear-marked means. The center party thinks there's no reason not to have a stepping up plan in this field as well. When the government announces a escalation in the use of drugs and rehabilitation, we also think it has to come to mental health. I don't understand counter-arguments. It is a non-binding proposal that is presented in the Left's proposal for a representative. The centre party is going to vote on that proposal subsidiaryly, so that it gets the votes from all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3711	There have been two good representative proposals on very important issues, and SV supports both. It should have been possible to get together on all the proposals contained in these two representatives' proposals, but at least we will get a little bit on the way through the majority that is formed for the proposal relating to the Left's proposal for a representative. However, something much more binding is needed than the decision taken today. Experience in mental health shows that this field needs national strategies and national support if patients are to receive what they deserve in the municipalities, as well as some of the other services we have to the groups that are likely to fall easily between all the chairs in the welfare state – those that are often not prioritised by the municipal politicians, those who have a voice that is too rarely heard, for example. paediatric, mentally ill and addicted. It may also concern children and the health needs of young people in general. Therefore, I believe that a combination of national escalation plans and designation is necessary in order to achieve the objectives we set for the municipal services. The experience of the child protection promise that the previous government carried out is very clear on this – it has changed the daily life of child protection services in many municipalities: 1000 new jobs. We need something similar in mental health. I also fear that the commitment of the government in terms of health sisters, school health services and health stations will end up in something of a stomach job, precisely because of the lack of earring and willingness to provide clear leadership for money use. It is also one of the most important prevention efforts we can make when we talk about mental health — building a good low-threshold health service for children and young people out in schools, in the community, where children and young people are. Therefore, I would like to refer to the treatment of the municipal economic proposition, where SV is going to propose to designate a promise that will provide 1,500 new jobs for health stations and school health services around the country. There is also reason to fear what the new framework for the local economy will have to say for the services we are now discussing. New times will be announced, through the treatment of this Community economicproposition, with a clearly lower income growth for municipalities than they have been accustomed to in the red-green years. Of course, it will have something to say about what kind of services are provided to the inhabitants, and we know that the kind of services we are now discussing will tend to lose when it gets thinner with crowns out in Municipality-Norway. Although we are discussing municipal services in particular, I believe that there is a need for more trust and more room for the creativity that can be triggered when we challenge employees to find more sensible ways to solve these problems. And then I'm going to refer to the Nordfjord District Psychiatric Centre, which managed to eliminate the waiting lists after the employees at the Center sat down together and asked, is there any other way to solve our problems for the benefit of our patients? They managed — both to ensure that everyone was treated more quickly, and that everyone had an immediate contact with the centre, which they had not received before, instead of being put on a waiting list. This is an example of what can happen with less detailed management from above and more trust in local professionalism, and that is what we in SV put in ‘trust reform’, which we want to implement, among other things. in the field of mental health, both in the municipality and in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3726	Both document 8 proposals to be dealt with today address mental health, both the challenge picture and what needs to be done, and that is, to a large extent, coincident. I am therefore pleased that we can discuss the proposals together. The proposals show that there is a broad consensus that the provision of mental health and care in municipalities needs to be strengthened. That's where people live their lives and have their friends and families. Many groups do not get a good enough offer today. The proposals point to children and young people, adults with mild and moderate disorders, the elderly and those with drug problems. Better prevention is needed to prevent people from getting sick and getting better follow-up and training in order to be able to live well with their illness and avoid worsening. I agree that there is a need for more resources, and this government has started the escalation. However, other measures are also important. We need to think about new forms of work and how we organise services. First to the theme of organisation: I fully agree that the provision of mental services must be an integral part of healthcare. We're whole people. Our physical and mental health challenges and possible drug problems are often linked. Through the announced communication on the primary health service of the future, we will show how we can create a more integrated and coordinated service. Doctors, psychologists, nurses, physiotherapists, protectors, socionomists and others must work interdisciplinaryly for a wide range of offers. In addition to normal, well-accessible and low-threshold healthcare, social and activity services are needed. Good mental health is not created in healthcare. That is why more sectors have to contribute. Psychiatric health must be a central element of broad public health work. How this can happen will be an important theme in the notified public health notification. In the case that comes after this, Stortinget will ask you to work with your own youth health strategy in connection with the primary health notification. It will also be important in this work. New forms of work are also needed. The user organisation Mental Health points out that services need to focus more on individual resources — on the healthier and less on symptoms. Users need help and training to live with disease and to avoid deterioration. Service providers need to ask users, as Young People with Disabilities suggest: What's important to you, in your life, right now and forward. It leads me to the important theme of ‘children and young people’. We fully agree that health services and school health services need to be upgraded in terms of both knowledge and personnel. The Children’s Ombudsman tells us that children are asking for a more accessible school health service, where they meet nurses who know a lot about mental health and who work with the psychologist. This service needs to be developed on the premises of children and young people. Here too there is a need for new forms of work. However, healthcare cannot meet the challenges alone. Good reproductive environments must be created for children. Employees in kindergarten and school, who see their children all day, must have knowledge and attention to mental health. Actions are important in public health work. In addition, the sectors need to work better together too early to capture and follow-up the children at risk of developing problems. The government has started to strengthen the services of mental health and drug abuse. We've also announced 400 million. more to the municipalities for the next year, in order for municipalities to start building a better schooling and health centre service and a better mental health and drug supply. In addition, we will present three communications in 2015, which will focus on the mental health service provision: one on primary health services, one on public health work and one on national health and hospital plans. Together with the two announced escalation plans for drug use and rehabilitation, we are going to provide the healthcare of users – in line with our objectives. We all have a mental health. Therefore, it is also important that we contribute to building the barriers in order to seek help also for mental health challenges. Too many of those with emerging mental health challenges today still feel that the threshold for seeking help is too high. Too many of us don't ask about each other's mental health. It's still hard to talk about. But we also have to build up the offer, so that when you ask for help, you get an early help and don't have to get sicker to help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3758	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3761	In the SINTEF report, we can read that the annual effort in municipal mental health has not increased since 2007. It bothers me very much. Nevertheless, I see that the government party today and the minister of health in a reply to the committee do not end up with the proposal to have a municipal escalation plan with ear-marked funds for mental health work, which the government has on drugs and rehabilitation. I can't believe that the Minister of Health can tell the difference between drugs and psychiatry that way, because very often these people are double-diagnosed. This hangs in jeopardy. My question is: why does the Minister of Health not want to include a psychiatry escalation plan in the escalation plan he has announced in the field of drugs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3770	We believe that there is a need for a separate escalation plan for the drug field. We have had an escalation plan for mental health, which ended in 2008, after ten years. It focused mainly on specialist healthcare. We believe that it is now very much about doing what we are fully in agreement about, and that I also understand that the Committee agrees with this position, namely to expand the offer in the municipalities in terms of health station, school health service and several psychologists in the municipalities. We don't have to create a separate escalation plan to do that. We must do this in the work that is now under way, through the annual budgets, as the government has also announced, and through the roll-out of the primary health service. It will represent the escalation plan set out in this proposal. That's the escalation we need. We need it not least when it comes to primary health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3777	I said I had been to Tromsø last week, and then I was also visiting the National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine. They work with telemedicine technology, which also involves standardisation, among other things. In the field of mental health, which means that treatment providers do a similar job, it can then be distributed — providing a better range of services in a geographically larger area. But some of what they are struggling with is implementation in, among other things, the municipal health service and that the tariff and reimbursement system does not premium the use of technologies and new standardised programmes. Can the Minister of Health say something about whether he intends to go through the tariffs and reimbursement system for the municipalities, so that a little bit of progress in technology is speeded up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3786	This will be an important theme of the primary health service message. It is precisely the question of how to get a better coherent service in municipalities, which is important: using new knowledge, making sure that the local health service can also work systematically to acquire new knowledge, use it concretely in the treatment and work better across borders. The problem raised by the representative is directly addressed in part of the challenges that we also believe are problems in today's primary health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3794	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3797	It's great to be able to deliver a representative proposal in Stortinget that is actually supported. There is, of course, one of several examples that it is possible to do good parliamentary work in this new Great Britain, and that is joyous. The left is pleased that there is a wide range of media to strengthen mental health services in municipalities, and we are particularly pleased that a priority is given to children and young people. We need a lift in the area, and it's in the municipalities that the need is greater. However, it is important to stress that a lot of good work has already been done in the area around the municipalities. In my own municipality of residence, Eid, which was also the representative Lysbakken in – happily – one, in collaboration with Nav and Nordfjord Psychiatricians, has put in place a holistic offer for the patients where one facilitates education, activity and meaningful leisure activities. There is also a system of user-driven places at the psychiatric centre, which users are entitled to use when needed. It is important that it is possible to build on the good solutions that many municipalities already have. Local authorities are different, and individual municipalities must have room for local adaptations based on the challenges they face. The left-wing opinion is that it is important to facilitate a lack of availability and provide room for several local projects directed by different actors. The lifelong learning centre of Skei, Jölster municipality, is an example of such a project. Here, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation are driving patients with easier mental distress. The center has room for 20 patients and is both a supplement and an alternative to the public health service. The center is operated by Bergen Diakonisse home, which operates hospitals, hayballs and other centers. We need more social entrepreneurship and more activity-based provision and hope that this will be part of the story that the Stortinget is now asking for. Finally, it is important to ensure a better integration between the physical and mental health services. We need a multidisciplinary effort and coordination of various relief measures. This applies to children and young people in particular. It is the health and school services that are important here, but we must not forget the important role that PPT can play in dealing with school, kindergarten, parents and children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3812	We're a country with good health care. There are few who disagree. The Norwegian state spends a lot of money on delivering a good welfare offer, and we make high demands. Nevertheless, we see that this offer is not as good for all patient groups. Psychiatric health and intoxication are perhaps the two areas we can be least satisfied with, as the situation is today. Psychiatric disorders are one of the major health and social challenges in Norway. Nearly half of the population develop mental health problems once in their life and to such an extent that they need qualified help. Every sixth Norther has a mental disorder at all times. Psychiatric disorders often occur at an early age and are the main cause of ill health in the 20–30 age group. Between 15 and 20 pst. In Norway, children and young people have been disabled due to mental health problems. The seriousness of this is underlined by the World Health Organisation, which estimates that mental illness will be the main cause of disease stress in Western countries in 2020. While the challenges are growing and more people need help, we see that the public offer is unable to keep pace. The last numbers show that 6.7 pst. of those admitted to mental health and drug treatment who are ready to print, waiting for a municipal offer. At the same time, the figures show that annual efforts in municipal mental health have not increased in recent years. The professional environment and user organisations are clear: there is a need for a boost in the prevention and treatment of mental disorders. There is a broad consensus that this promise must come to the municipalities. That's where the plug sits per day. In the hearing on the matter, there was broad support for a new municipal mental health escalation plan. Nevertheless, government parties say no. Instead, they want to investigate. The central party believes that the factual basis is clear. There's no time for more paperwork. There is a need for action, and it is now needed. Concrete action means that we need to have a stepping-up plan, and not least such a plan must contain fresh funds. The current government has been well informed about the mental health effort in both election campaigns and government statements. With this proposal, they have the opportunity to demonstrate the necessary action. So far, there has been little action, largely just moving funds, which have gone at the expense of other municipal services. That's not the way to do it. A real bet requires fresh funds. Therefore, we are now proposing new earmarked funds for municipalities to strengthen the work on mental health. These resources should, of course, be part of the framework of the municipality after the end of the escalation plan, so that municipalities can still provide good services without taking a step back.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3829	There is a lot of consensus in this matter and a broad majority behind the need for a stepping up for mental health, but it was SV's representative Light Hill's posts that made me need to comment, when he says that the government's investment of 400 million. in the case of school health services, intoxication and mental health in the municipal proposition can become a ‘mageplask’. I would like to remind you that our government reintroduced the earmarking of 343 million. kr to the municipalities in the State budget for 2014, a designation that the red-greens removed in their last budget, and that the ‘mageplasket’, as the Light Hill calls it, may mean up to 700 new professionals meeting children and young people and those in need of rapid assistance in the municipalities. Services today are quite different in size. We are committed to providing good interdisciplinary services in health and school health services. Health nurses are one important actor, but many municipalities also need to strengthen other health care-related staff groups, such as midwives, physiotherapists, psychologists and perhaps also health-care professionals, to name a few. We are concerned that the municipalities will have the opportunity to look at this in a complete way. The strength will include, among other things: to make the school health service more accessible and accessible so that students can be reached more easily. It's the way that they're spending – 200 million. kr for preventive work at a health centre or in the health centre service – will be distributed to municipalities according to the number of inhabitants aged 0 to 19. It also means that it is dedicated to health and to children and young people. The same applies to the substances reported for drug use and mental health, where 100 million. kr is distributed to children and young people, and 100 million. kr is distributed according to the social key.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3840	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3854	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3861	The Committee has examined a proposal from five representatives of the Christian People's Party for measures to prevent unwanted pregnancy and to reduce the number of abortions. The representatives have put forward ten concrete proposals for decisions. The Committee shares the concern of the proposers that the total number of abortions in Norway is high and has remained stable for many years. A Joint Committee agrees with the proposers on the need for further efforts to prevent unwanted pregnancy and reduce the number of abortions in Norway. The Committee welcomes several of the measures being taken and also endorses the aim of the Council of State, which is set out in the letter to the Committee, that a comprehensive strategy for good sexual health should be established from 2015. The Committee believes that the concrete proposals put forward in this matter must be reconsidered in this work, and that measures to reduce abortion and unwanted pregnancy must become a central element of such a comprehensive strategy. A minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the SV, believe that such a common strategy must be anchored in the Storting through their own announcement of the aggregates and propose this in the vote. The majority of the Committee, the representatives of parties Right, the Progress Party, the Left and the SV, ask the government to develop a health strategy for young people. The Committee endorses or endorses several of the proposals put forward by the representatives by way of comments in the vote. The Committee shares the views of the proposers on the need for sexual education at school and the need for good information and guidance services. The need for increased health care services and student health services is also highlighted by a joint committee. The Committee stresses that the use of long-term prevention methods, abbreviated as LARC, is likely to be under-utilised in Norway among young women, and agrees with the proposers that there is a need for competent measures on LARC among permanents, midwives and health sisters. The proposal to extend the system of subsidised prevention to include LARC is favourable to the Committee. However, a number of the Committee, the Right Party, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Left Party point out that this is also a budgetary priority. When it comes to the proposal to extend the system of free contraception to women between 20 and 24 years of age, a joint committee agrees that this is an age group that requires great attention and concrete, targeted measures to reduce the abortion rate. Trials with free prevention for the group have shown good effect. A plurality in the Committee, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party believe that it is nevertheless necessary to consider whether it is the right priority of resources to give free prevention to this group of young, adult women. A Joint Committee is concerned that measures such as this do not need to be assessed in isolation, but that one sees it in the context of sexual health in general and measures for the prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. The Committee believes that good financial arrangements are important for women who give birth. Several members of the Committee would like this to be done by stepping up the one-time support. A majority of the Committee would point out that the draft representative essentially deals with prevention and measures to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion, without referring to or requiring measures to prevent sexual diseases. The majority think it is important to have a holistic commitment to sexual health, where one also has a focus on prevention, partner responsibility and the reduction of infectious sexually transmitted diseases, for example. the prevention of Klamydia in condom use. The Committee is pleased that the right to prescribe for nurses and midwives should be extended to cover all hormonal contraceptives, and is in favour of the right to prescribe for nurses and midwives for women of all ages. The center party fought for a big message about sexual health and prevention of abortion, and had hoped that the Left would support this, because then we had actually had multiples in Stortinget. We think it is important to get this as a big message, and the left's option is that they have chosen to ask for a strategy for young health. The point is that then we won't get a debate in Stortinget. After all, a strategy has to be developed on the basis of something the Stortinge thinks about a matter. What does the government think the Stortinget thinks about this matter, if one has not thoroughly addressed the issues raised by the Christian People's Party in its proposal for a representative? That's why I think it's very regrettable that the Left couldn't create multiples for us to achieve what I think Left is in agreement with us, that we're going to get this to thorough debate, because it's a very important thing. I'd like to discuss the proposals of the Center Party on this matter and the ones that we're together with other parties about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3889	The representative Toppe has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3892	It is an important matter addressed here in a proposal from five representatives of the Christian People's Party. The question of what kind of measures to take to prevent unwanted pregnancy and reduce abortions is one of the most serious issues we need to address. We have to deal with such issues with respect for the fact that we are going close to vulnerable aspects of being human, especially being at the most violent stage of life, namely youth. I would first like to say that the Labour Party's position on these issues is based on two equally important assumptions. Firstly, we fully share the objectives of the proposers to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies in Norway and to reduce abortion rates. Very many – probably the vast majority – women who get into the situation of choosing to have an abortion will experience this as an impression both physically and mentally. The Working Party therefore supports many of the proposals put forward in the dossier, such as good guidance and information and easy access to prevention, in particular for the youth group. For us, the commitment to this matter rests on one more premise – that we are uncompromising in the defence of women's right to self-determined abortion. The abortion law has given Norwegian women the opportunity to decide about their own bodies and lives and has therefore been a major step forward. I think that in particular my generation of women know better than anyone else, we who had a youth both before and after the abortion law was passed. That's why it's so important that women who choose to use the right that the law gives them are met with respect, care and understanding. That is why the Labour Party believes that both of these two perspectives must be included in the debate we are going to have today on the subject. We need a policy to prevent unwanted pregnancy among young women, and we need a law to ensure that those who choose abortion are cared for and met with care and empathy. The Labour Party shares the view of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left that we need an overall strategy for better sexual and reproductive health, and we believe that this must be anchored in the Storting through its own bigmouth message. This is therefore an overall proposal in the draft representative we are discussing here. We also agree with the rapporteurs that concrete objectives for work are needed, and share the ambition to reduce abortion rates by one third over ten years. A new initiative will need to focus on targeted action against selected groups where abortion rates are high. This involves good guidance, information and access to prevention. In the Committee's opinion, we have also highlighted FAFUS, family planning and prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion among non-Western immigrant women, a project directed by Oslo University Hospital, specifically targeted at women with a minority background. There were several in the hearing who drew up the FAFUS model, including the Norwegian Association of Nurses, as an example for follow-up and should be considered in greater detail. A good and accessible healthcare service in local communities is the key to succeeding in reaching the important groups, especially young people. In this way, increased efforts are being made at school health services and at a health centre for young people. For many young people, the health centre is a widely used lowthreshold service, where a person can apply for a knowledge of prevention and sexual health. In Tromsø you have, for example, had a long-standing offer of nursing care related to the popular Tvibit youth home. That offer is so well incorporated and so reliable that it is often produced as a model for reaching young people with a targeted health service. Therefore, it is important that the government follow up appropriations for the school health services and health centres, so that we are sure that the money is actually used for what they are meant to do. We fear that other urgent tasks in the municipalities will be given priority at the expense of these services. We know that municipalities can get into a lot of trouble when it comes to fulfilling statutory tasks such as: adequate childcare facilities, all the time that this is proven to be underfunded by the government. The working party therefore believes that during an escalation period it must be considered that money should be earmarked for health and school health services, until we see developments moving in the right direction. I address the proposals that the Workers' Party is promoting together with the proposers and in various minority configurations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3918	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3921	In the wake of the heated debate on the possibility of reservation, the Christian People's Party presented ten proposals for measures to prevent unwanted pregnancy and to reduce the number of abortions in Norway. It's a commendable and important commitment. Although we in the committee have made an honest attempt to write together as much as possible, the attitude continues to be marked by some disagreements about the measures. Some media lookups in the last few days have also made the impression that there might be more disagreement than there actually is in this case. There is a cross-political consensus that the number of abortions in Norway is too high and that further efforts are needed in the prevention field. A broad majority calls on the government to develop a youth health strategy that will take a holistic view of the whole range of challenges related to the health of young people and young adults. We had probably hoped that a joint committee would welcome such a strategy, but of course we are pleased with a solid majority behind the order. The proposals of the Christian People's Party are largely directed against the sexual health of young people. They are important measures such as sexual education, student health services and easier access to prevention — good proposals that we see as a natural part of a comprehensive youth health strategy. The Christian People's Party's proposal for free contraception for women up to 24 years of age is not supported by a majority. Although the Right Party and the Advance Party are aware that the majority of abortions occur between 20 and 24 years of age, we are not sure that it is the right priority of resources to offer free prevention to this group. Rather, we are concerned that women in this age group should be able to gain better access to prevention by extending the prescription rights of the health sister and midwives. This allows young students to receive prescriptions for contraception at health centres throughout the country or at the Student Health Service. The Christian People's Party's proposals focus most on the sexual health of young women. It is also natural when the heading is to reduce unwanted pregnancy and abortions. But we also want to make boys responsible for prevention, and we want to make the need for prevention methods that can also reduce the infection of sexually transmitted diseases. We believe that sexual health is just one of several important areas that affect the health situation of young people. Absence at school, mental health challenges, self-damage and suicide, inactivity and overweight, and a better provision for young people with chronic and long-term illness and/or disability are elements that we want to see in a whole. In particular, young people with disabilities have been aware of the need for a comprehensive strategy on youth health. They call for more comprehensive services — across sectors, across service levels and across interventions. We believe it is important to listen to young people’s struggles over many years to get this clarified in a comprehensive strategy. A youth health strategy can also address health challenges faced by young adults. The 2010 national study on the health and well-being of students, carried out by TNS Gallup on behalf of the main student relationships, showed that 10–15 pst. by the Norwegian students are mentally struggling. Good early action is important to prevent small problems from growing to major challenges. The school health service is the most important lowthreshold service we have, and here, the Right–Fremskrit Party government is to bet more in the years to come. But we also need to make the school health service and the student health service more accessible and relevant for boys, because today there are too few boys looking for a health care sister or a health centre. Also, boys need to talk to a professional in between, and then we have to make sure that the health nurse's door seems as open to boys as to girls. We all want to make sure that our young adults are equipped to meet the challenges of life. A youth health strategy will increasingly ensure that we look at youth challenges more holistically. The goal is to create young adults who are safe on themselves, also on their sexual health. Then we can also target measures in such a strategy to achieve the goal that the Christian People's Party shares with us all – a real reduction in the number of unwanted pregnancies ending in abortions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3940	Unwanted pregnancy and abortion are a topic that emerges in debates at regular intervals. Although we have had several action plans and new measures are still in place, the number of abortions remains relatively high — although they have fallen slightly. That women have the right to self-determined abortion is very important, and fortunately we no longer have a debate on whether or not to do so. But even if women come to help easily, we know a lot about the decision women have to make, often perceived as demanding, and that women are differently influenced by what they've been through. So it'll be a good thing to bring down the number of abortions. The Action Plan on the Prevention of Unwanted Pregnancy and Abortion launched in 2010 remains valid. For 2014, 32.3 million were granted. kr for its follow-up. In his letter of 23 May, the Council of State stated that his objective was to establish an overall strategy for good sexual health from 2015. The aim is to coordinate and highlight instruments and measures. Several of the proposals put forward in the proposal for a representative would be natural to promise in this context. I choose not to go through all the proposals that lie in the matter. I share the intention in several of the proposals, such as the increase in one-off social benefits, better sexual education and the extension of the right to prescribe contraceptives, including for midwives and health sisters. Other proposals I believe have been taken care of in other contexts, in connection with other plans and notifications that have been notified. When you read through all the suggestions that lie in the matter, you can get the impression of a great deal of disagreement. On the other hand, if you read the comments that lie in the matter, I think they testify to a great deal of commitment and very much agreement across the party boundaries. The Committee is quite united in this matter on issues, challenges and actions. Up through my years at Stortinget, I have found that much of what we are working on is fragmented. Issues and challenges related to children and young people are under several committees, and I have often heard hearings that there is a lack of focus on youth. Most of it is divided into children or adults. In particular, with regard to the transition between children and adults in health — in terms of both drug use, mental health, treatment and rehabilitation — there is a tendency not to assume that young people need anything other than children, and also something other than adults. There is a great deal to be found in all matters if we are able to build strong and safe young people. Not least in sexuality, unwanted pregnancy and abortion, it is about the safety of your own body, your own health and your own sexuality. Building self-confidence so that they can stand up to pressure and know the boundary between volunteering and coercion will be important steps to take. I'm a big fan of youth health centers. In my municipality we have had this for very many years. My conversations with the employees there as a municipal politician gave me a lot of knowledge about how much uncertainty, insecurity, and lack of self-confidence that characterizes too many young people. Even the toughest young people have a vulnerability and insecurity that makes many work out other problems, such as eating disorders, self-harm and drop-out. Reaching young people with good and relevant information helps to strengthen them as human beings, but this must be done on their premises and in their arenas. Everything is related to everything. When we sat and dangled a little about all the proposals that lie in this matter, it struck me that it would be nice to be able to discuss this in a wider perspective. An action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion already exists. In addition, we have strategies for better sexual health and acceptance and mastery – national HIV strategy. What we're missing is simply a separate youth health strategy that can accommodate everything that's extra demanding about being a youth, about not being a child, and not being an adult. Good health creates strength and security. I am pleased that other parties also support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3966	Every fifth pregnancy ends in abortion in Norway. Abortion rates are highest among young adults aged 20–24 years. We hear here that there is a political consensus about bringing down abortions in Norway. It is essential that concrete measures are put in place to achieve this. It'll cost you money. Free contraception is an important tool to prevent unwanted pregnancies, and provision must be made for women under the age of 25 to have access to free contraception. In any case, teenagers have received almost free contraception, but the age range of 20–24 years, with the highest rates of abortion, does not offer free prevention at present. As the organisation Sex and Societal said during the hearing, when abortion rates are so high in that age group, we have to realize that something is not working. When experimental schemes show significant decreases in the abortion rate in this age group when offering free contraception, priority should be given to the Christian People's Party. The knowledge summary including the statement that the LARC methods are the most secure and cost-effective. We know that easily accessible and free, subsidised, prevention helps to balance social inequalities in the reproductive health of women in Norway. The introduction of free contraception also requires the inclusion of other relevant services, such as: training and guidance on how to use contraception. This means that we need to ensure good knowledge and capacity building of the agencies that are to disseminate the means of prevention and provide guidance. This applies to permanent doctors, to health professionals in youth and health stations, and to the Student Health Service. There should be an follow-up evaluation after five years when you have distributed free contraception to them under 25 years, believes the Christian People's Party. Information and guidance are important. We're also concerned that the boys should be involved. Providing Internet and telephone services, youth health centres, student health services and defining an important role in this, together with available online information, can help and capture the way boys get involved. The fact that women between the ages of 20 and 24 have the highest number of abortions is often because they are some of the most mobile in the population. They often move in connection with education. They lose contact with the health centre they went to, they lose contact with the supervisor they had. They depend on building a new contact network at the place where they come to study. These are the girls we're talking about here, who often get pregnant, and usually take abortion. That doesn't make any sense in fine words. At that time, interventions and lowthreshold services are useful to help them. It becomes an important part of the student health service. During the consultation, the Norwegian Association of Nurses pointed out that health centres for young people are experiencing considerable progress from just the group aged 20–25. It is therefore important for the Christian People's Party to extend the age limit in health centres to 25 years, and it is important for us that midwives and health sisters have access to print all kinds of contraception. Then we'll look to other countries. Finland and Denmark have achieved much with this. They have systematic training; they have good measures for new countrymen — for women who come and who do not have the same traditions as us. It's not to stick under the chair that economic factors will play in. The Christian People's Party is committed to increasing the one-time benefit to 2 G. A girl who gets a kid without a job gets NOK 37,000. We want her to get NOK 164 000, so that it is possible to live on the one-off support she gets. I hear many people say in the debate that they support many of the proposals for action, but they cannot vote in favour of those who commit. If we think we're going to have to reduce the abortion by one-third, we have to be willing to put money on the table. I'm asking the parties to think through this. It is not useful to have a strategy plan if there are no measures in the strategy. We will not achieve the strategy either. I want to promote the proposals that the Christian People's Party has with others and the proposals that we have alone. We'll still be on them. Then we will inform you that we also support proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3994	The representative of Olug V. Bollestad has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e3997	I would like to begin by commending the Christian People's Party for promoting this proposal for a representative. It is an important recognition that we have too many abortions today. Unfortunately, some of the abortions are used as contraception. Working from the reality that is, I think it's important to move on. A good part of the measures proposed by the Christian People's Party is – as the representative of Bollestad says – associated with great curiosity. For the Left, we share a good part of the proposals on looking at and extending access to subsidised prevention to more, related to age, and using long-term prevention to a greater extent than today. There is also a need to look at the actors and the implementation of the law in terms of printing prevention, which we widely share that health sisters and midwives have increased access to. When it comes to the commitments – on which the representative of Bollestad was involved in his statement – it is about respect for a cooperation agreement that the Left and Christian People's Party has with the government parties, the Right and the Progress Party, where it says that major economic – let's call it – reforms are to be made in connection with budgetary agreements. One of the challenges of these proposals is that it is not estimated what it will cost. It's estimated that here we're talking about a hundred million dollars just to expand the age range in the case of subsidised prevention. If it's going to be free, there's probably a lot more we're talking about. There is no doubt that these are financial commitments which the Left considers it difficult to take through a representative proposal, as in this case. For the Left, we have promoted a proposal for a representative on student health and student welfare that addresses some of the proposals that the Christian People's Party is making here, linked to the 20-24 age group. We're not going so far as to say that there should be free prevention for this group, but we'll look at subsidised prevention. The proposal also includes a number of other measures, in particular the interaction between health professionals linked to a study site. That is why we are pleased that there is a majority in favour of a youth health strategy where one looks at many youth-related instruments, and at many challenges that we see young people facing – which in some ways can contribute to the prevention of abortion. Another part of the debate – which I think is missing in the proposals of the Christian People's Party – is linked to the boys, who also have a considerable responsibility. Here is information, prevention and accountability. When I've been around health centres and outside contacts and others related to youth, they say that they are now experiencing an increased progress from boys who want to acquire information, to participate and to take responsibility. But then there must also be someone to meet these guys. Maybe these guys don't always come at the time when there are three-four girls in line waiting. Some health centres have started with their own boy fields, e.g. to meet just their needs. There are probably a number of measures that we need to discuss here. It is also about the electronic means and the social media, the online communities that have arrived, which are standardised, validated information channels, such as: Clear Clock. It's about bringing forward more of these measures. One of the left's errands here has been to develop a health plan specifically aimed at young people, because we see that they may be the first lucky generation to grow up and use such technology to a large extent, but also have a particular desire to keep its anonymity and identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4015	There fell some harsh words from me in the direction of the Christian People's Party before today, during the hospital debate. It was deserved, but now I thought I would praise the Christian People's Party. It's earned, too. It's promoted a very good proposal, which I think points to some very important challenges for us. I think that the Christian People's Party has contributed to a constructive approach to the debate on abortion, based on the debate we have had in the last few months, and which – as I see it – is based on what is real in Norway today, namely that the woman's right to choose for herself is a matter of course. Within that framework, there is much that can be done to reduce the number of abortions and promote what I would call sexual freedom and accountability. It's about avoiding unwanted pregnancy, and it's about making it possible to bring forward a child that Mother wants, but she's uncertain about whether she's capable. In SV, we are known to be hot defenders of the abortion law. It has meant freedom and security for Norwegian women. However, as a follower of the law, it seems like a goal is to bring down the abortions, because behind many abortions is the unwanted pregnancy and difficult choices that the individual woman might wish she had not had to make. Some of the proposals of the Christian People's Party can contribute to a healthy awareness of sexuality and sexual liberation for young people. Therefore, we support the proposal to extend the system of free prevention. There have been several successful local trials that show that there is an action that is very welcome by young women, and that works, so we support the proposal to extend the system of free contraception up to 24 years. We are also busy sending a signal related to sexual education. It's about the same things. It is still at a very poor level in many places in the country, although this varies very much not only from municipality to municipality and from school to school, but perhaps mostly from teacher to teacher. There is a great need for increased attention to be given to this. We will also support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which are linked to the one-off aid. It should be said that SV actually has another proposal. We want to transform the model of this benefit so that it can become part of the parental pension system. In this way, we will eliminate the discrimination of today's parents in and out of the labour market, and provide the possibility of a continuous minimum benefit also for those parents who have little or no connection with the labour market, so that it is possible for them also to receive a benefit over time and to stay at home longer with their children. We've also suggested that such a minimum performance should be 2 G. For the sake of simplicity – since we want to go to about the same place – we are voting in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We are in favour of the other proposals presented by the Christian People's Party, and we will vote in favour of four of them now tonight. But I see that the Minister of Health has said that several of these proposals are things he will look at, and then we will also come back to those proposals when the Minister of Health does so, in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4034	This is an important and good proposal that addresses not only many important issues but also many good suggestions on how to meet this challenge. The proposal also raises issues relating to sexual health, including: prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion. The government will continue the extensive work already under way in this area and, of course, will also consider new measures. As I have pointed out, in 2014 32.3 million were granted. The follow-up to the Action Plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion. The plan has two overall objectives: to reduce the number of abortions, and to provide the best possible starting point for all to plan pregnancy and a safe sexual life. Key indicators point in the right direction with a view to achieving these objectives. The majority in the committee's position have said that one wants one to develop one's own youth health strategy. This has also been very clearly requested by the users, including. by Young Persons with Disabilities. The voice of users is important to listen to, and of course we want to follow up this proposal and develop a youth health strategy. It is therefore very important that we in that work also involve young people in making the strategy. Such a strategy could address the whole spectrum of challenges related to youth health and sexual health, and involvement will be important in that work. Easy access to prevention is a central measure to reduce abortion rates. In 2002, midwives and health sisters employed at health centres and in school health services were allowed to obtain pills for girls aged 16 to 19 years, and in 2006 the right of requisition was extended to all short-term hormonal contraceptives. Still, only doctors can claim long-acting methods of contraception. The government believes that the human resources of municipalities can be used in a better and more appropriate way than today. We will therefore do what one of the proposals contains, namely propose to extend the right of requisition for long-term prevention to midwives and health sisters. We will send a draft consultation on this during the autumn, so that the change can take effect during the first half of 2015. It will also be part of the proposals that are up here, which it will be appropriate to come back to in the pharmaceutical notification, to be submitted to the European Parliament in spring 2015. Of course, any proposals to extend the current contribution scheme must be included in the regular budgetary rounds. Information on sexual health needs to be easily accessible for young people to access and benefit from it. Online services such as Klara Klock and Healthorge.no are good information channels for young people. In particular, online services are important for young people who, for various reasons, do not want to visit the health centre personally. We know, among other things: that about a third of those asking questions to clear-timer.no are boys, while only 10 pst. by the boys personally visit the health centre with questions. Therefore, continuing to invest in online services is important to meet the needs of young people. Some health centres for young people have established their own immigrant youth groups. Online information services can be a useful service for many with a background also from other cultures. In the government platform, the government wants to increase the disposable benefit at birth. As a result, rates have increased from this year onwards, among others. as a result of the budget negotiations in Stortinget. I would also like to point out that there are increasing numbers of parents who earn the right to parental leave, and that it is also possible to earn parental leave during the pregnancy period. A good and accessible healthcare service is important to meet the needs of young people. The government will therefore follow up on the work already widely undertaken, and we will also follow up on new measures, such as the extension of the right of petition for midwives and health sisters, and we will develop our own youth health strategy where a number of the proposals mentioned here have the opportunity to join. That's part of the proposals we're already working on, and then there's another proposal here that has major budgetary implications, including, we have to get back to in the budgetary process. There is a special opportunity for both the Christian People's Party and the Left to prioritize this in the budgetary negotiations they have with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4053	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4056	The Minister says that he will draw up his own strategy plan for youth health. How many of the measures proposed in the draft representative will be included? Will the Council of State have its own action plan for this strategy plan, so that there will be concrete actions out of the strategy plan, or will it be at an overall level, without action?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4066	The content of the strategy we have to come back to when we present it. I also want to pay great attention to the involvement of young people in this work. I understood from the representative Toppe that she was very concerned that this was going to come back to Stortinget, but I may well be so concerned that young people are involved in the preparation of such a strategy. There are a number of the proposals included in the proposal for a representative, which it is quite natural to also discuss in connection with that strategy, and then there are some of the proposals that will require budgetary intervention, and then it will come to the Storting anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4071	I was surprised by something that was in the Minister of Health's letter to the Committee, where he wrote that he thinks it is ‘dvilly increasing the lump-sum benefit would be an appropriate instrument to achieve the objective of reducing abortions’. And he writes that it will be out of date ‘as part of an action plan to prevent unwanted pregnancy and reduce the number of abortions... to propose stepping up the single-use aid to 2 G’. In its position, the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party shall state that: «Economic arrangements for women who give birth are an important part of abortion prevention». The Committee's right-hand side and the Progress Party also take note of the following comments: ‘this occurs by stepping up the one-off buffer’. Now perhaps the government council understands why I'm concerned with getting this case back to the Stortinget, because what does the Biggest thing about the entrance aid reaches even the Right in the Committee and the Council of State signal so much different things about the entrance aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4096	I can guarantee that changes to the one-off benefit are not feasible in strategies; it must be implemented in the state budget. There's one coming back to the Storting, anyway, so that concern doesn't need the representative Toppe to have. We've increased the one-time benefit as part of the budget work together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's part of the government's policy. When Document 8 proposals are sent, I also have to respond on a professional basis. And on a professional basis, the Ministry of Health and Welfare does not have the basis to say that an increase in the lump-sum benefit will be a significant tool in an abortion prevention work. It's my job to answer the Storting. Then a politician from the Storting may feel that this is desirable, it is the government's policy. But it is something other than to provide a professional basis for the decisions the Storting will take.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4105	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4110	As several have mentioned, abortion rates are of concern. No one believes that high abortion rates are good. No women want to get pregnant involuntarily, or get into a situation where abortion is an alternative. It should therefore be possible to establish a broad political consensus to support measures on the prevention of unwanted pregnancies and abortions. We have the opportunity to do that today. Many are positive, but action and in the next round of funds are required. But if that's the will, we'll get it done. Prevention of unwanted pregnancies is largely about providing young people and young adults with enhanced capacity for action in sexual situations and good information on contraceptives. In order to achieve this, the quality of school sexual education needs to be increased, and non-profit institutions working in the field of youth and sexuality need to be more closely involved. School health services and health centres for young people need to be provided with resources to follow-up each and every young person, while at the same time the responsibility for abortion prevention needs to be increased, including the responsibility of the decision-makers. by strengthening their competence in prevention. The Christian People's Party is proposing today measures to increase access to prevention. We will provide free hormonal prevention to 16- to 19-year-olds, and want a gradual extension of the free prevention system to young people up to and including 24-year-olds. A new study shows that abortion rates fell dramatically when women and teenage girls in Missouri, U.S.A., were given free contraception. But perhaps even more important is making young men responsible, so that the responsibility for using contraception is not just pushed on the girls. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential that the prevention work against them between 20 and 24 years of age be strengthened. It is a paradox that the age group with the highest rate of abortion may be that part of the young population with the weakest sexual health offer. Many of these are students or young immigrant workers who don't have any fixed skills in the city. Abortion prevention is also about giving women real choices. Researchers point out that many young women choose abortion for economic reasons. It is therefore high time that the Stortinget increased the one-off benefit at birth and improved the leave rights of students. It is also important to improve the economy of single-parents. Prevention of abortion is about having two thoughts in your head at once. First, we have to prevent women who don't want to get pregnant, yet they do, and second, we have to make sure that no women choose abortion because they feel they're being forced into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4127	I just want to give you a little explanation of vote from the Center Party. Many have indicated that many proposals have been submitted in this case. It also has the background that there were ten proposals when the proposal was submitted from the Christian People’s Party. I would also like to say that it is a very good representative proposal that the Christian People's Party has submitted. It's kind of a shame that we don't get it back to the Storting for a proper debate. But that's when we don't get the multiples we need. But anyway, when it comes to the individual proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party has decided that we are not going into any of them today. That doesn't mean we're against all of them. We've done that in the notes. But we believe that this must be part of a big message, and we have a proposal, proposal No. 8, together with the Labour Party, where we are asking for these proposals to be backed up in a big message about sexual health and the prevention of abortion, where we clarify what that big message is about. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party signals that they too are stifling that proposal today. We have a proposal that we're all about, and it's about the one-time benefit. We mean a lot of the same thing as the SV and the Christian People's Party, but we make it clear to the State budget for 2015, that the one-time contribution should be increased to 1 G in the State budget for 2015. So I'd like to comment on a comment from the Center Party. It's all there is to it. I think he's a little important too. We refer to reports from the Norwegian Medical Association that it is not a goal in itself that all women should benefit from hormonal prevention. As with other medicinal products, different contraceptives may have significant side effects and their use must be adapted individually. I think it might also have to be mentioned in one case where we're otherwise very concerned that we have to get more people to stand on different hormonal contraceptives. For all intents and purposes, that's important, but I think they understand what I mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4139	I think it's nice to have a lot of praises, but I think it's even more peeks with action – people know me. I wish there had been more action behind the fine words today. It's true, as the Left's representative said, that this will cost money. At the same time, I would like to say that the large number of abortions costs a huge amount of human suffering – before the election is taken and after the procedure is done. It costs hospital money as well. We have to take this into account. Then the Christian People's Party is fully aware that the boys also need to be informed about being allowed to take responsibility, and take responsibility for what they have done and been involved in. At the same time, it's the girls who actually have to take the load with the abortion procedure. The Christian People's Party has not said that we would have all ten proposals passed right away, but we should wish that we could say that it could be a stepping-up plan. Now that we are in favour of the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Center Party, it is in the hope that these measures will not disappear largely, but that they will actually be able to help us get a plan that can make us responsible for bringing down the numbers of abortions, which everyone has said they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4152	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4166	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4180	This is a matter for inclusion in the EEA Agreement of a regulation establishing a system for an integrated Europe. For me as a spokesman for the case, it is a pleasure to see a joint committee stand behind the vote on this matter. Connecting Europe Facility, CEF, aims to set up an overarching EU infrastructure investment programme by 2020. Focusing on smart, resilient and fully interconnected transport, energy and digital networks is intended to help strengthen Europe’s internal market. The basic idea of this programme is that it should provide incentives for investment. The EU Commission has estimated that for each invested euro in the infrastructure network, innovative funding could stimulate a new investment of EUR 6 to 15 with a total value of EUR 50 billion. euro. The EU, like the Norwegian government, has seen clear targets for 100 Mbps broadband across the country by 2020. Demanding efforts and coordination are ahead of us to achieve the goal, and expectations related to the digital society are high. The funds linked to the CEF project will contribute to the development of the necessary infrastructure, which will again make technological solutions available within different sectors. The CEF Regulation can contribute to simplification, efficiency and not least to reducing the digital class distinction. The EEA Committee’s decision states that the EEA/EFTA States shall only participate in the telecommunications part of the interconnected Europe system. Norway’s financial participation will therefore be limited to the telecoms area. Participation in the CEF also allows Norwegian public agencies, with partners, to search for means of establishing the Norwegian part of the current digital sector. In short, I would like to show that it is very important for Norway to be actively involved in the cooperative Europe system. It is gratifying to see that this government is following up EU/EEA matters and that it is well seen on the agenda. This allows us to ensure that Norwegian interests are taken care of. Instead of accepting solutions and standards created by the EU Member States, Norway can then participate in designing them itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4203	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4218	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4227	First, I would like to thank the other committee members and the department of the Council of State of Ketil Solvik-Olsen for their good cooperation in a difficult matter. I feel that we agree on many of the premises and have also experienced that the department has worked hard to find practical solutions. Then it is clear from the wording that the Workers' Party and the Centre reached a different conclusion from the majority. The NSB is in the process of implementing a major rail reform with two key elements: a major change to the ground and a significant increase in the train equipment. This has led to increased frequency on central train routes with maximum track capacity utilisation. For example, it can be mentioned that there are close to 900 trains running daily through the Oslo tunnel. The passenger growth of the NSB in 2013 was 7.3 pst., which is much higher than before, and shows that the NSB has taken good action. However, the introduction of the base route model has not been unproblematic. New train times and frequencies also lead to major changes in the bus offer. Several train stations and bus stops have been shut down. Very many passengers had to change their travel habits. This was also the case at the Steinberg station in the Lower Eiker municipality in Buskerud. The station was temporarily closed from December 2012 but during the treatment of Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013, Stortinget decided that the station should be upgraded and reopened in December 2014. In connection with Innst. 13 S for 2013–2014, Stortinget adopted the reopening of Steinberg station with an estimated cost framework of 200 million. kr. Today, the cost of reopening and upgrading based on congestion around the station has risen to 300 million. kr. In the context of the 2012 budgetary decision, a reservation was made that the Railway Agency should conduct a traffic simulation of the detailed timetable to ensure that the solutions are robust. Traffic simulations indicate that the reopening of Steinberg stations poses major challenges. By letter of 7 April 2014 to the Committee, the Ministry of Transport of the Council of State points out that the maintenance of the Steinberg station poses a risk that: ‘– The local wish for two trains per hour Drammen-Hokksund may be more expensive to realise than if the Steinberg station is shut down. – It is accepted that an already poor punctuality on the route can be further weakened and robustness reduced. – It will not be possible to introduce a uniform two-time frequency on Sørlandsbanen, an offer estimated to generate 100,000 new passengers annually.’ I am pleased that the majority of the committee, all except the member of the Central Party, points out that the Ministry of Transport's opinion is thorough and gives a good account of the benefits and disadvantages of reopening. In this context, I would also like to point out that the Department so strongly emphasises the importance of maintaining a good collective service for the community. I want to commend the strong commitment shown by the local people. This has led to concrete actions being launched in the autumn. Action will be taken to facilitate the stopping of two approaches – two against Oslo in the morning and two from Oslo in the afternoon – at the station from August 2014. Planned punctuality measures shall be implemented and then testing arrangements shall be initiated with regular stoppages at the Steinberg station. The practical experience of the testing scheme will then be an important element of the final decision. This will be an effective way to test whether the railway network’s traffic simulations are in accordance with practice. The Government also proposes comprehensive investment measures and proposes that safeguards such as fences, walkways, simple platform measures and level crossings should be implemented at the station. It is also proposed that measures be taken in tracks and securing facilities in Hokksund to achieve a more efficient crossing of trains there, as well as the removal of the level crossing in Red Street at Gulskogen station in Drammen. This work will be carried out in 2014-2015, and the current time for a testing scheme with a stop at Steinberg station will therefore be at the re-routing in 2015. The Ministry of Transport has started work on improving the provision of collective services in relation to the Steinberg station – among others. dialogue with local authorities, stop express buses and level crossing on Steinberg. The Ministry also wants to establish dialogue with the County Municipality in order to allow local bus services to continue to carry passengers to Mjøndalen and Hokksund stations 3 to 4 km away in each direction. As can be seen from the Ministry's letter, the Railway Agency has taken the task seriously and has worked on a number of options to identify solutions for the Steinberg station. The railway system is an integrated system in which even small changes may have adverse consequences. This applies particularly to high-traffic sections on high-traffic sections of the single-track track.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4268	Steinberg station on the southern runway was closed from December 2012, when a new base route model was introduced for rail traffic in the east. This led to major protests both from the local environment and from the Lower Eiker municipality. The decision to shut down the station was made in connection with the treatment of the State budget for 2013, where the Ministry of Transport announced that the station would be upgraded and reopened in December 2014, at a cost of 100 million. kr. Subsequently, cost estimates have increased and, in the course of the Grand Duchy’s treatment of the State budget for 2014, Steinberg station and related measures were planned to be implemented for change of route in December 2014. The measures were to be completed in 2015. In total, the cost of all measures was now provisionally estimated at about 200 million. kr, where the Ministry of Transport proposed to grant 130 million. kr to the Steinberg station itself. The issue we have today for treatment is basically a strange matter. Why was it necessary to make representations that the government had to follow up the Storting decision to reopen the Steinberg station? That was, of course, the decision taken by the Stortinget in two state budget treatments. Well, then the government put forward Prop. 97 S for 2013–2014, which we will debate now afterwards, the government let the cats out of the bag, perhaps some say. Here, the government in plain text says that they ‘Do not want to give priority to new opening of Steinberg station in 2014, rather than allowing increased traffic on Sørlandsbanen’. Therefore, the government redisposes 65 million instead. SEK of the 130 million. kr granted to Steinberg station for the project Farriseidet-Porsgrund on the Vestfoldbanen. And that's where it starts to scour. First, the Minister for Transport, in a letter to the Committee in connection with the examination of the proposal for a representative, stressed that the maintenance of the Steinberg station would pose a risk of: ‘The local wish for two trains per hour of Drammen – Hokksund can be more expensive to realise than if the Steinberg station is shut down. It is accepted that an already poor punctuality on the route can be further weakened and robustness reduced. It will not be possible to introduce a uniform two-time frequency on Sørlandsbanen, an offer estimated to generate 100 000 new passengers annually.’;» Such relationships, of course, take the Workers' Party for granted. But that's where I come to the point of why the case of Steinberg station and the Südlandsbahn, which the station is part of, creeps. We find it strange that the government, if it is committed to strengthening the Südlandsban – as it itself says – has not proposed increasing funds to the Südlandsbanen when they now propose to re-prioritize funds allocated to actions related to the Steinberg station. Instead, the funds will be redispatched to the Westfold Railway. But let it be clear: funds are needed for the Westfold Railway, so we obviously support increased allocation there, when there is now no majority for reopening the Steinberg Station, but that is the argument that does not hold the goal. Then I would like to stress that we are of course concerned with improving the offer on both the Sørlandsbanen and the Vestfoldbanen. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Workers' Party in general believes that we should be cautious in dealing with the opening and closing of individual stations on the network. We have noticed, and take seriously, the objections the Minister of Transport has to the committee in the form of letters. On the other hand, I have to say that the measures related to the Steinberg station have been addressed in the State budgets for both 2013 and 2014 and funds have been allocated. That's why Steinberg is also in a special position. So it's the Storting that decided that the station should be reopened, and so much can't have changed since the budget procedure six months ago. The Labour Party therefore supports the proposers and makes proposals together with the Centre Party that Steinberg station should be reopened for traffic as planned in December 2014 and that the other measures should be completed in 2015. And then I'm excited to hear why the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party, and the Christian People's Party are opposed to such a proposal, all the time it's been adopted by the Storting before. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4309	The representative Sverre Myrli has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4312	First I want to say that this has not been an easy matter, it has actually been very difficult. We know that the Steinberg station was closed by the red-green government. It was in 2012, and they went for closure in connection with the introduction of a new base route model for the NSB. In the 2013 election, they wanted to reopen it, and that the estimated cost – as they said – would be 200 million. kr. So we can just wonder why the red-greens first shut down the Steinberg station in 2012, when they will reopen it almost before it's even shut down. But back to the cost: now it turns out that you hadn't taken too hard when it came to setting a price on what this would cost, and the cost has already gone up to $300 million. kr for any reopening. So then it's wrong to take. The Ministry has started work on improving collective provision in relation to the Steinberg station, for example: with stop for express bus and level crossing on Steinberg. Because although this is a difficult matter, it is important, no matter what happens here, that the collective provision of community becomes good. According to the Ministry of Transport, the restoration of the Steinberg station may, inter alia: cause further deterioration of the already poor punctuality of the route and a reduction in robustness. We also know that there is a local desire to set up two trains an hour between Drammen and Hokksund, but we also know that it can be more expensive if Steinberg station is reopened, and the possibilities for two trains an hour on that route can thus fall away. A third argument is that it will also not be possible to introduce a uniform two-time frequency on the Sørlandsbanen, an offer that will generate approximately one-off. 100000 passengers per year. I know that the Ministry of Transport has already worked hard on this matter, and that the plan has been to come to the Stortinget with a plan for how they see a good collective offer for the community. It is worth noting that even if the station was closed in 2012, it has not gone into the forgetbook. The Government has now indicated that they will implement the planned punctuality measures and that they will have in this context a testing scheme with regular stoppages at Steinberg station. Experience from this will be important before any final decision is made on the matter. There are added up to two trains from Steinberg to Oslo in the morning, and two trains returned in the afternoon. Depending on the plan, this pilot scheme may be launched as early as August 2014. If this has a negative impact on the capacity and operational stability of train traffic, it must also be possible to stop the test. It might seem unfortunate, especially between Drammen and Oslo, but we're crossing our fingers to make this work. This is really about how we're going to manage and use a very button track capacity for the best for most people. We want to use the train as much as possible, and then it's important to find out what the people of Norway are doing best. One of the considerations is whether we're going to increase the frequency on the South Railway to double, or whether we're going to open the Steinberg station again. Now, the way it is, it doesn't seem like we can do both of them. I am not in doubt about what I think is the best thing for the continent, if these two things end up being set up against each other when the trial order is finished. If the choice is to be between increasing the traffic supply on the southern runway or opening the Steinberg station, increasing the traffic supply on the southern runway will weigh most heavily on me. There has been no lack of commitment to this matter, and that is good. We like that people get involved in things, and it's important for us to get input. These recordings are included when the matter is assessed, both by us at Stortinget and by the department. But it's the weight of the government to balance different considerations before it's presented to us again. That is why I agree with the committee's proposal for a decision to attach the matter to the Minutes. Then the government comes to its conclusion when the work is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4338	This has been a matter for the municipality of Lower Eiker which has been associated with expectations of being resolved from December 2014, in accordance with the decision of the Stortinget in the budget for the current year. In Lower Eiker as a commuter municipality and in Steinberg as a residential area, good collective services are important and necessary to maintain and, in particular, to strengthen the settlement in the area. The municipality, together with an active action group, has worked hard to reopen from December 2014. From the Christian People's Party it has always been important that it is not the economy that is going to put an end to the reopening of the Steinberg station. From our side it has been, and is still, important to get a reopening of the station, but not in a way that threatens stability and predictability in the region and the total rail supply on the South Coast. When the issue of upgrading and reopening of the Steinberg station has been more demanding than initially assumed, it is about what reopening might have consequences for the rest of the train offer, which, as of today, in our opinion, has not been fully resolved. Among other things, the uncertainty about what this will lead to in terms of the punctuality of the train offer in the region and on the Sørlandsbanen as a whole, including among others. the challenges already mentioned in finding a two-train-hour solution between Drammen and Hokksund and the problems it could face for the planned introduction of the todimer frequency on the Sørlandsbanen. It is necessary to provide sufficient resources to allow traffic at the Steinberg station to be brought into other traffic without damaging the whole. The planned security measures at the Steinberg station and the investments related to gangways, fences, simple platform measures and level crossings at the station shall and must be implemented. In this way, there shall be no lack of security measures or any other type of measure to prevent the reopening of Steinberg. In the case of one of the objections of the Railway Agency, namely punctuality, we have been informed that an alternative analysis has been provided from the Traffic Concept AS. Our call to the Department is for an initiative to coordinate the railway system's review with that of Traffic Concept AS to be too difficult to go in and see what it is possible to get from train stop at Steinberg station, without compromising overall punctuality. In this way, a few quality assurance can be obtained as to what is possible or not possible. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that, in addition to this, a test order is being launched with regular stops at the Steinberg station, after the planned security measures have been implemented. This may be done by regular scheduled conversion from December 2015. Through this test, one could form a final picture of the situation with regard to what stops at Steinberg station will have a bearing on the punctuality of the rest of the train offer in the region and along the southern runway. From the Christian People's Party we want a robust and long-term solution for the Steinberg station, and that the traffic at the station can be integrated into other trains, so that the whole is strengthened. That should be everyone's concern. When the Central Party and the Labour Party today go unconditionally for opening in December 2014, I understand that, based on what they and we have all been involved in in the 2014 budget decision, but I have great problems understanding it from the problems that the Railway Agency has pointed out that this can create. Or is it that the train offer for the rest of the region, and along the southern runway in general, means less for these parties? Nor can it be that in this case one puts his trust in the assessments made by a private consultancy company, while in all other matters one trusts in the Railway Agency? In the view of the Christian People's Party, it must be right first to implement the security measures, while coordinating the two different analyses on what is possible in terms of punctuality, then to check out what is actually working, through a probationary system, and in the meantime to initiate two missions, morning and afternoon. The disadvantage is that you clearly postpone the reopening. However, a quality-secured scheme is becoming much safer than a reopening already in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4359	I fully agree that it is quite special to upgrade and reopen the Steinberg station in Buskerud here as a representative proposal. The reason for that is, as the representative Myrli quite eloquently said, the special prehistory. The station was closed, and then there was a long, public debate under the red-green government, with very strong criticism from among others. The progress point for the station to be closed. There was a strong popular commitment from the Workers' Party and the Center Party both locally and here from the Stortinget, and this led to a success in getting the government to decide that the Stortinget would invest 130 million. kr in 2014 for reopening in 2014 and final completion in 2015. What we saw is a rematch from the Railway Agency for closure. It's really a rematch with no new arguments – it's the basis, which was a fact of the investment decision, it was something that was assessed at the time. There were arguments at the time, and there were arguments like one then saw that was not enough to maintain a shutdown of the station. There were also attempts at a rematch under State Councillor Arnstad of the Senterpartiet. It was rejected by Arnstad State Council. It is particularly and seriously that an establishment does not follow the decision of the collapse, and it is in particular that a council of states, whose party carried out very hard criticism of the red-greens during that period, follows up the railway works' strategy of re-combination. It is quite essential to follow up the decision of the Enlargement, including appropriations, in order to do so. Therefore, we encouraged the representative proposal to reopen the station in December 2014 – because the conflict with the base and stop at Steinberg station had already been resolved. But there are a number of arguments that have been put forward for a long time back from the railway station, and there are constant changes. It started in 2012. The closure of the Steinberg station was promoted before the so-called station structure report was sent to the hearing, and here is probably the root of the debate. The railway system has had a shifting argument and strategy to ensure the closure of the station – a new line of argument that has been continually rejected, in terms of platform length, saved travel time, costs, two trains per hour, increased frequency on the South Coast, punctuality and robustness. In 2013, the Railway Agency turned from communicating with local authorities, and they shifted a promised meeting with the action group by half a year in time. The railway system, which is a party to the Buskerbybygne collaboration, implements a split-and-rule strategy by claiming that two trains per hour are incompatible with the Steinberg station – the same Busherbygne cooperation on which collapse and government spends very large amounts of money, because it is the largest collective cooperation in the area, where not least increased use of the railway is one of the most central. The question of a new level crossing at the Red Street at Gulskogen station, while at the same time entering the Hokksund station, has been used against Steinberg, while now proposing an investment, without benefiting Steinberg. It is such that the investments at Hokksund station while simultaneously running in save time. The Red Street removes the level crossing and saves time. Now the argument is that it saves time, but it should only lead to one being able to drive slower, one being given greater so-called robustness, so that one is still not sure that Steinberg can be secured. It is argued with the punctuality of the case that punctuality is too poor on the Eidsvoll-Kongsberg section. In the last five months, punctuality has been above the 90 pst requirement, so that, from our point of view, it is satisfied. What is now the government’s proposal is a test scheme with a regular stop to Steinberg from 2015, while one implements the investments on Rødgata and Hokksund. Then there is a need to implement road safety measures on the Steinberg railway with a footbridge, a better platform, a fence and everything, so that everyone can do it now. In any case, when the proposal of the Workers' Party and of the Centre is not adopted, it is essential that the Council of State instructs about the loyalty of the Railway Agency in order to follow up what is now being invested, precisely in order to ensure the use of the railway to a greater extent than at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4378	In the left, we have a great deal of respect for all those who are fighting for a better rail service, both for themselves and in general. When we don't go in and support this proposal, it's definitely not because we don't want to have a good travel offer at Steinberg Station; it's simply a reflection of what gives the best rail service. In the balance between one stop, which gives uncertainty, up to getting an offer of two trains an hour against Hokksund, and which makes it difficult for a two-time frequency on the Sørlandsbanen, it is quite clear that it is right for us to prioritise a better offer between Drammen and Hokksund and a better offer on the whole of Sørlandsbanen. Then we're glad that it's still possible, that it's possible, to get to two stop trains at Steinberg station, that there will also be a testing scheme with regular trains gradually, and that the necessary investments will be made to get it done. The main objective must be to make the rail offer as attractive as possible, both for those travelling on the whole route and in need of rail along the whole route on the southern runway, and as much as possible also for the more local offer. But what is crucial, and as this case also illustrates – as it is on Stortinget – is that when planning for the railway, and the Stortinget must also support the railway operation, we must have a system thinking on the ground, where we plan for as good a route as possible and offer, and that is the driving force in the development of the railway, and not a struggle for each project. Then we often have a problem making a good enough total offer. The basic problem is the capacity of a railway that is old, and where you have a single-track offer, with the capacity problems that are still trying to operate so much rail with an offer that has so many limitations. On the left, we do not support the proposal – not because we do not have the greatest sympathy with those who are fighting for a better offer. Had this been a matter where it was just a willingness to use resources to make a better rail offer, we would definitely be involved, but here it's a balance. The solution now being adopted ensures a better total offer for the whole of the Sørlandsbanen and a better total offer also in the short term for the route between Drammen and Hokksund. Then that's what has to be the most important priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4393	On the SV side, we are going to support the proposal of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. We believe it is important that when the Stortinget takes decisions, these decisions are followed up. We note that there is considerable money to give up tolls – in the priorities of the Council of State – but not money to carry out the upgrade, the bet, at the Steinberg station that we believe is right, and that the Storting has decided. How one puts up lines, rail transport, and where one adds stations to have an offer, is crucial for the overall land development policy, because that's where there are stations, we want to get close. That's where the municipalities add up to density. Creating uncertainty in the way I see the bulk of the population doing today is not good for those municipal politicians and state politicians who are trying to imagine a comprehensive planning of land and transport policy in the area between Oslo and Buskerud. We therefore believe it is right to support the proposal, as it is from the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4402	In 2012, the Railway Agency and the NSB set out the basic route model in the East. There has been a great success, with a huge growth in the number of travelers, more predictable schedules and a very increase in punctuality throughout the railway system. I just think we're going to think about how much Christmas there was Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa got in the media because of constant delays on the railways in the East. The new timetable has obviously been a success also in order to improve it. Unfortunately, there were some railway stations in that connection, just to have a robustness in the system. Some places they're still closed, but right now we're discussing Steinberg station. The background is that the red-green government changed its mind after they had adopted the station closed, and decided to open it again. I find – despite that decision – that there was not a single thing under the then government to make preparations to open the station. One had ten months, and one had even granted money for action. They weren't started. Abandoning any responsibility for it is a little bit historyless. Today's government has spent a lot of time at this station. We're saying we're going to spend 65 million. kr this year for actions related to punctuality, with certainty and with regard to the deployment of intermediate trains at the station. It will start already this year to stop trains again at the Steinberg station – probably earlier than the red-green had added. But one doesn't get an adequate route offer, and it's not about will, it's not about lack of money to invest this year; it's about the fact that there was one premise in the decision that was made, one premise from the red-green government that none of the red-green politicians have bothered to mention in this debate. Therefore, the red-green should listen when they hear what they wrote themselves. It is stated in the 2014 Proposition of the Red-Green Government: ‘The railway network will perform a traffic simulation of the detailed timetable in order to ensure robust solutions’.» It was done – the solutions were not robust. The railway company said that reopening the station in 2014 with the grips that had been done – i.e. hardly any – would lead to major delays on the track. Then it is not only responsible to reopen the station, as the red-green will, at least when they themselves have not helped to do so. That's exactly what this government is about to do, so that we get a robust solution on this line. That's why we say that we can have an intervention now – it offers an offer in the rush time, while maintaining the bus route offer that's there. But our goal is that when the grips are done, from the summer of 2015 you have to have a test scheme where you have regular stops again. It is action, although it does not happen as quickly as the red-green government would, but it is simply because the assumption of the red-green government to open is not fulfilled. It has to include someone in this. I would like to hear the red-green parts relate to the whole of what they wrote, when they were in government. So I think it's a little bit special when the red-green parts say that regardless of what happens to all the other stations, all the other punctuality on the lines, the Steinberg station is going to open, regardless. I don't think that's responsible. This government will provide a travel offer as much as possible. That means that we need to ensure flexibility, predictability, on the routes in the Oslo area – that's one thing you have to take. The second is that we want to give a better deal on many of these lines. That is why we have proposed that, from December 2014, we should double the capacity on the Sørlandsbanen. It's going to be in the 2015 budget. So it's been known in the media – the representative Myrli obviously didn't get it along, but that doesn't mean it doesn't exist, it's been duly mentioned many times this spring. There is the bet of this government, and I am very happy that we have received media support from the Christian People's Party and the Left to do this. The fact that the red-green parties say that the Südlandsbanen is not important because a rather should give priority to Steinberg station if there is a conflict, I think it is the wrong priority. This government is going to try to get to both, but if that means that Steinberg station has to wait six months to make sure you have good schedules and robustness in the system, we're waiting for six months. But Steinberg station we're working to open. I remember that also in the case of the 65 million. kr to the Farris and Porsground section, it is to obtain a faster and better solution on that route as well. It is simply because we had not managed to spend all the money that was set aside this year, as we would have liked. That's why we say we have to use them on other routes, where we can keep progress. So it's not the Southern Railway that needs investment in tracks. It's about buying more services, and we're proposing to grant that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4430	It is correct, as the Council of State said, that in 2012 one left the base route model. It's true that the red-green put the station down. It is also true that, after a thorough assessment, a decision was made on the opposite. So the council says there were no things done from the red-green side. It is de facto wrong, it was granted money for investigation work in 2013 just to reopen the station. In view of this, it was decided upon. The Council of State made the claim that this would lead to great delays. Since the Council of State has been so thoroughly involved in the matter, my first question is: what are we talking about in minutes of delays? And point 2: Now when it's going to be invested in simultaneously entering Hokksund and securing the level crossing in Red Street, how much time will be saved with this, and why can't that time be used to stop at Steinberg station?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4437	It is precisely what is to be carried out, at the same time entering Hokksund and ensuring the level crossing will ensure that one receives exactly those additional minutes which are likely to have a test scheme. I think a trial plan now will be positive. So that's exactly what we're doing here, what's needed to make sure that Steinberg Station can be reopened. But what is the difference between today’s government and the majority in the Storting and what the red-greens are proposing is that regardless of whether the measures are implemented in 2014, regardless of what the simulations show, an open Steinberg station in 2014. So that means that you don't get a doubling of the capacity on the southern runway, and that means that you can risk significant delays on other routes towards Oslo S. I don't think so. One looks at the simulations that the Railway Agency has done, that at least one train per day is likely to have a delay of more than 5 minutes in addition to what is the delay today. Punctuality is good in large parts of the East, but right on this path it is not quite as good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4442	When the Workers' Party and the Centre will reopen the station, it is precisely from the investigation work that was done and that the Council of State does not now reject. The council did not answer my question about the delays. But to look at the positive, the Council of State says that the savings in time by simultaneously entering Hokksund and ensuring the level crossing in the Red Street will benefit the Steinberg station. Well, it's the second best that someone can get a deal in 2015. But I think the Council of State should be a little careful to be so high and dark in the matter when he does not have a full overview of the thorough work done earlier to get this done, and given the strong criticism that the former government met just from the Progress Party when one made the effort as one did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4447	Well, it is quite right that the Progress Party and several others were critical of the way the government handled the matter. That criticism is what I'm saying, because if one of them had taken action earlier, we would have liked to have started the trial before. It is not enough just to explore solutions if one does not initiate action. That's exactly what we're doing right now. As I mentioned in my previous reply, which the representative Lundteg did not get: with the assessments that have been made, a few punctuality of less than 80 pst. This means that compared with today, at least one train per day is likely to be more than 5 minutes delayed beyond what is the case today. That does not give the offer that I want. That's why it's important that we make investments that enable people to trust that trains to and from Steinberg go when they're going to, that people along the other parts of the line are satisfied, and that they don't also get a delay that reproduces to the rest of the east. I've already signaled in what's written to Stortinget, and what I've said now, that we're working to get a reopening of the station. We're already going to put in an effort. It's faster than the red-green would. But to get a full reopening that is robust, I will first know if it works. The simulations indicate that it would not, and therefore measures must be taken first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4456	The Minister of Transport says that the red-green will reopen Steinberg station anyway. It is true that it adopted the Stortinget in 2012 – and in 2013, only a few months ago, at the state budget treatment. I agree that it would have been directly irresponsible if we had decided today just above the table that some random station would be reopened, but it was therefore decided at the state budget before Christmas. I remember that the Progress Party locally in Buskerud was very much for reopening the Steinberg station. I certainly believe that the Progress Party and the Right in Stortinget also agreed to that when dealing with the State budget, and so that is, as I say, no longer than just a few months, during the treatment of the State budget of the Ministry of Transport in December 2013 of the budget for 2014. So my question is simply: why did the Right and Advance Party change its view of the matter in such a short time? What happened during the winter that caused the Right Party and the Advance Party to change their perception?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4461	A line change would have been better if one had actually followed the answers that have been given, because I have already quoted what the red-green government itself wrote in the budget proposal for the current year. It says: ‘The railway network will perform a traffic simulation of the detailed timetable in order to ensure robust solutions’.» The conclusion they reached after they had implemented the simulation was that this solution is not robust, i.e. just to reopen the station without the measures being completed. That's the difference here. Over the table in Stortinget, the red-greens propose that the station be reopened this year, even if the measures have not been completed. So they hadn't physically initiated these measures when they were themselves in government. What we're saying is that the measures need to be in place. We're already going to put in an input, because it's giving a certain offer within what's robust. However, in order to get a permanent stop, it will take place from the summer of 2015, as the measures are also completed. I am recording that the red-green rather priority is to say no to doubling the capacity on the Sørlandsbanen until further notice. I think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4471	According to our heads, it is not the case that different measures are being taken in the transport sector and in the public transport sector. Some of the toll-performance projects could be dropped to Solvik-Olsen or the tax cuts, etc. That's pretty small money we're talking about in the big context. But that wasn't really my point. I wondered if the council had anything to say to or share with those who have experienced this on the nearest team. They say that they find it hard to understand that on repeated occasions new elements arise that are the real reason why the station cannot be reopened. There is money, so it was the Sørlandsbanen, so it was not technically possible, and then there were delays – every time there has been a new moment, at least many people at Steinberg have the impression that they were not good enough to answer the questions they were able to deliver, and then the new moments came up in the case. What kind of message do you think you can give from the council to these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4478	This case started because the NSB, the Railway Agency and the then government were concerned about the punctuality of local traffic in the Oslo area. That's still the main reason why this happens. But then we have also said that the problem of opening the station already now without the measures being completed, makes it impossible for one to double the capacity on the southern runway, as this government will do, but which obviously was not so important to the red-green government. So this is not a problem in terms of money itself, but it's about that even if you never have that much money, it takes some physical time to carry out some projects. That's why we've said that the projects that can now be implemented, we're now starting to finance them. However, some projects take quite some time, and it is natural that they will be completed in 2015, and then there will be a grant that will enable them to be completed. But I think we have every good will. We have shown the action force that is needed for us to be able to put in inputs already, that we can set in motion a reopening of the Steinberg station in 2015. But it takes a lot of time, because we're going to start pretty much on scratch.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4483	The Minister for Transport has applied a debate technique that is not very honourable, in which he attributes motives and behaviour to the staging representatives, which is quite often far from reality. We usually have a tradition in Norway that state councils have respect for the Storting and the work of big business representatives, and I hope that we will not change it now with the way the Minister of Transport is debating, not just in this matter, but in several cases. For example, the Minister of Transport has said that the red-greens want to reduce the capacity of the southern runway and want to reduce the supply of the southern runway. Instead of the Minister for Transport making such claims, I think we should get the matter into proper circumstances, debate matters factually and thoroughly, have respect for each other's views, and stop attaching motives and opinions that they do not have. My question is, can the minister explain where he has his point of view that the red-greens want to reduce the offer on the South Coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4490	What I have said repeatedly is that this government and the Christian People's Party and the Left want to double the capacity of the Sørlandsbanen by granting more money from the 2015 budget. We have also gone out in the media and said that we have ordered an investigation and an assessment from both the Railway Agency and the NSB of whether it is technically possible and whether you have material. Everything points to it so far. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have signalled support for this. That's when I say, when someone knows the capacity of the track on which the Sørlandsbanen goes through Buskerud, that one will have problems if the Steinberg station reopened in the state it is today. Then one would not be able to double the capacity. I didn't say the red-greens are proposing to reduce compared to today, but they're against that double if it comes into conflict with Steinberg. That's when the red-green Steinberg takes priority. We will give priority to doubling the capacity of the Southern Railway. From the summer of 2015, I hope both parts are in place, but in the choice between Steinberg station and Sørlandsbanen I choose the Sørlandsbanen for the half of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4498	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4503	Passengers are a very important thing – especially those who want to go on and off. Because then the train has to stop. Ideally, they should take the bus, but a private car is also a good alternative. This is how reality is now felt for those who live near the Steinberg station in Buskerud. When Steinberg was closed in connection with a new base route for 2012, the local population became involved. The train commuters from Steinberg formed an action group that fought to keep its station. They've been acting for a long time, but not just by protesting. They have undertaken significant work on documenting and sketching alternatives to the decommissioning of the station. They didn't draw an airlock. Professional train and timetablers have been engaged. Their proposals can be implemented. They've been to a lot of meetings in the ministry and big business. During the previous period, we received frequent visits from the action group on the Buskerud bench. They showed plans and explained. All parties listened and nodded. The entire Busherud bench promised to set up with what we could. It rested on us red-green a special responsibility. We had a majority and a government, and in the budget statement for 2013, they were heard. ‘Hell-turning’ by the previous government, State Council Solvik-Olsen writes in its letter of reply to the Committee in an attempt to discuss the matter. Listening to people, I tend to call it, but let go, for it was a complete reversal of the good blow. Money came into the budget for 2014. The station even survived the government change – we thought, because the money remained standing. The people of Steinberg were pleased, all the parties on the Buskerud bench, then State Council Arnstad, all were happy – all except the Railway Works. Problem focus over solution orientation is a nice thing for those who don't want to. Like to set people up against each other – Southern and Hokksund up against Steinberg, for example. I have experienced something similar before, when the plane was going to Drammen. The size had granted 50 million. kr, the Council of State had proclaimed on 1 May 2009 as the starting date. The plane needed a P-house. The railway company thought it would be a good reason for them to get involved in the P-house in Drammen. So, on October 31, 2008, I asked the Council of State if decisions in big business and government were reasonable enough. P-hus came, but it was thanks to the municipality. Steinberg is located in the centre of the Busker city, the collective effort of the state, the state and five municipalities, and is indicated as a favourable place for development due to good collective provision, which can be further strengthened. But the Progress Party and the Right have turned, or no, the whole reversal is certainly called – or was it implementing force? Anyway, we shouldn't have to propose that the decision making process be implemented. But we still have the opportunity to show who's in charge, by voting later this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4520	Steinberg is a small and charming town in the Lower Eiker municipality of Buskerud. That's where it lives. 2,000 people, and about a tenth of them used the train daily when it still stopped at the station. Steinberg is actually the prototype in a place where we want the train to stop. The place is kind of a small town of the Drammen. In the autumn of 2012, the station was closed to great despair for many commuters. And the fall of 2012 had landed a red-green government. When the new government took over more than one year later, it was rather small with leaders to find in the Department of Transport's drawers for when a reopening of the station was to take place. It might be worth reminding the people behind today's Document 8 proposals. There were several of us Busherud politicians – regardless of party colour – who were high on the track and demanded reopening of the station when we fought for election favor last year. But it turned out, unfortunately, that it is not as simple as just reopening the station and stopping the trains. It is absolutely not on the will of the government in this matter. In fact, there is no case for our people in the Ministry of Transport to have spent more time after the government change than just the Steinberg station. It shows how difficult the matter is. An operational action group, fighting for a train stop, is constantly questioning several of the Railway Works’ arguments for closure. In several areas it has been found that the action group has been right. But in one area, as a politician, I have to support the Railway Agency. It is in the case of train stop simulations, which show that it can lead to delays that reproduce to train traffic on the southern runway and local traffic into Oslo. I am not a scheduler and must choose to rely on the professional expertise. For this government, nothing has to be unruly. We are solving the commuting problems in Steinberg by introducing already on 18 August two missions to Oslo with the stop of Steinberg in the morning, as well as two approaches in the opposite direction and with the stop in the afternoon. This will allow most people with normal working hours to re-use the train from and to Steinberg. Because this government likes to be safe in its affairs, a trial project is being set up with train stop every hour. It takes place after some remedial work on the Drammen–Hokksund section, and is started next summer, which the Council of State briefed on in its article. Then we will get the final and correct answer to whether the railway station's simulations of train traffic really hold water. If they don't, the Minister of Transport happily cuts a red cord, reopens the station and makes sure that the rock deposits get a station with a fixed train stop again. Nothing will please me more than if it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4543	I think this process has been a process of development. We have worked through the work done in the committee, and the work carried out by the Council of State in the ministry, has managed to find practical solutions to practical problems for very many. I think one should be aware that this affects something more than just Steinberg station. It really affects rail competitiveness and rail competitiveness. We are building a lot of rail in this country to ensure that it takes many passengers and takes advantage of what is the railway's great energy supply: capacity, punctuality and speed. Punctuality is an incredibly important element for the railway. When we talk to those who transport goods by rail – there are actually some of them still – there is one thing they point out, and that is punctuality, that the goods arrive at the right place at the right time. Punctuality is also important for those who are going to work, that they actually get to work in the right time. Then it's like in a traffic center area like the Oslo region, there's an incredible number of trains. 70 pst. the transport of trains takes place in our area. We have to trust that those with professional competence are able to steer this traffic through an oslo tunnel that is almost blasted. We already have a problem today with punctuality on a number of sections. You can't underestimate that element. What we need to bet on is getting a better interaction between train and bus – where should the train stop, and where should the bus contribute? In the context of the 2012 change of route, some of the success was that the bus routes and the food for the train were turned around so that the train could be full. And the growth came. 7.3 pst. is much more than the NSB has ever grown; it has largely been at zero. But they carry 67 million passengers in total, i.e. accesses. There's a lot to be able to get an overview of how it's going to be done, with the material you have at all times. You're dependent on good material, you're dependent on crew, and you're dependent on having a stop pattern that helps the railway actually be a competitive player.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4556	First, I would like to agree with the case rapporteur, Mr Igstad, that this matter concerns something far more than Steinberg. For my part, it affects the trust in the Railway Agency. We have the confidence in the railway works after a lot of examples of them are frayed, and this case doesn't make it any easier. What is the problem in this case is not punctuality, but the report on station structure, a so-called market-based station structure with fewer stations. In Buskerud we have experience with Darbu station. It was also to be shut down – a smaller station than Steinberg. It was secured in an early phase and is today a glittering example of a successful station that attracts more and more customers. And it's a success measure that happened. Then we have the indoor forest station in the smoke in Buskerud, which is temporarily opened again, which is also in the same category. When the Council of State spoke of Steinberg versus doubling capacity on the southern runway, it was probably a delay. I expect that the council of state meant two trains an hour to Kongsberg, i.e. Drammen-Kongsberg. But that's a completely different investment than for the Steinberg station. It is a completely different matter, both in time and in money. In order to achieve this, a repair station currently operated on a dispensation from the Railway Authority must be secured by crossing tracks and must be secured by level crossings. We're probably facing investments well over 1 billion. kr, far ahead, something quite different from Steinberg in 2015. So it must be a misunderstanding. There are two different things. What is now the matter is Steinberg station. Two trains per hour are in time. This involves major investments due to the fact that a non-investment has kept pace for many, many years, which the red-greens started on and made a huge effort for, and which created optimism for the many who run trains in different contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4569	I'm just going to solve a couple of things. Firstly, the red-green representatives have said that the station survived under the red-green, and then suddenly it has now been closed. No, it was actually shut under the red-green. It did not stop a train there in 2013 – the last year the red-green crashed. And then they talk as if it's now decided that the station should be shut down. Throughout this debate, both the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have said that they are working to open it. Even now it is approx. two months until the first approaches start stopping at the station again. It is not to close a station to tell the trains to stop there; that is the point of the station. Then we also say that if approx. One year we're going to start the test system with a permanent stop again, because then we're going to assume that we've implemented the necessary grips, which have been requested by the red-green representatives, who save time in the system, and that we have the time we need to get robust stops. We're in the direction of opening the station, not shutting it down. It is a bit sad for red-green representatives, who made a proposal in their belief that they would take the party of today's government. But we're showing on the contrary that we're delivering on the promises we had. We were critical of what was done under the previous government. Now we're cleaning up again. Then Darbu's station will be named by the representative Lundteg. I fully agree that Darbu station is a good development. But the interesting thing is that the red-green parties refer to an independent report made about the Steinberg station, where the report concludes that Steinberg station can be reopened if you start shutting down the Darbu station for many departures. Just what Lundtigen said was a success, so one would argue that one should stop, because then one should have the trains to stop at Steinberg station again. I mean we're going to get hold of this, which means that both stations should be able to be open, but I want to be sure that it works before I commit myself to it. And then the Southern Railway comes in. Because yes, we're talking about doubling the number of train take-offs from Kristiansand to Oslo. It's about buying more departures from the NSB. We have clearly signaled that in the media; there has been a debate around it. I figured that the red-green parts also had it with them, but now we have at least informed about it. It's in our work on the budget for next year. So the red-green parts say they don't want priority, because you want to open the Steinberg station now. And it's not a problem for the Southern Railway primarily, it's a problem for the robustness of the entire route system in the local traffic in the East. That was the railway problem at first, and that's still the main problem. I'll get to this, but I'll get to a setup that works. Because I fully agree with the representative of Elvesuen that a good offer should be made to the travellers, it should be attractive to travel by train, it does not help that the train is still away 4, 5, 10 or 15 minutes late. It should not least be known by red-green politicians, who have had their own state council in a storm without equal for a long time in 2011-2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4586	The Minister of Transport claims that the red-green work against the increase in capacity on the southern runway. That's not right. We are very much in favour of increased capacity both on the South and on the Westfold, to mention it – which has also been mentioned earlier in the debate. Today there are four departures throughout between Oslo and Kristiansand. The Minister for Transport has now promised in the debate today that he will double the train offer on the Sørlandsbanen. That's very good. I have never heard that he has been so concrete before. I hope it wasn't a delay. Double of four – he has promised eight departures between Oslo and Kristiansand. As I said, it's very good. But there's nothing in the documents we've been given, neither in Prop. 97 S for 2013-2014 or in the correspondence between the Committee and the Ministry during the examination of the representative proposal, that Steinberg station will make it impossible to double the capacity on Sørlandsbanen. It says, that reopening the Steinberg station makes two-timer frequency impossible on the southern runway. That's what the minister writes. But two-time frequency and double capacity — that’s a total in both expressions, but doubling and two-time frequency can’t be the same. So the number of trains is going to be increased by four between Oslo and Kristiansand, from four to eight, and then I really have to say that I think the Steinberg station case is giving unparalleled dimensions and consequences. If the reopening of the Steinberg station makes it impossible to increase the train offer by four trains a day between Oslo and Kristiansand, I must say I am quite doubtful about the willingness to try to find solutions to this at all. I don't like the fact that we're dealing with individual proposals on railway stations on the network, but here the story is very special, because here, on two occasions, the Stortinget has decided, only in 2012, that Steinberg station should be reopened. And it's not right, as the representative Vosskensen said earlier, that it was adopted in the 2013 election year, it was adopted in 2012. It was first adopted by the 2013 budgetary procedure, in 2012, and then adopted by the 2014 budgetary procedure, in 2013. As I said, I don't like that we have to go to the step that we take individual stations this way, but I don't like that Storting's decision is not followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4595	It sounded like the president hoped it remained the last recorded too – but it was really a question to the council I had, so we'll see what happens. I think that the Council of State has a somewhat strange attitude towards the staging representatives, which Sverre Myrli had in mind. It's kind of something about the rhetoric here that feels a little uncomfortable. I'm going to try to keep myself too good at it, but just reminding you that for a short time ago, the State Council visited Steinberg station like this a little out on the evening search a Saturday, where there was no one there, and put out a ‘selfie’ on Facebook with itself smiling in front of the sign at Steinberg station. I added all the kindness, so I replied to that picture when it started to appear in other media, in online newspapers and stuff, and then I put that hurrah, it looks like we have a positive case in store. After all, when we heard that it was going to be a press conference, we were absolutely certain. So then I left out another message that yes, I was right, here's the big thing going on. Then I was not only disappointed, but others too. This is due, inter alia, to: what is on the matter we are going to deal with later here today. It says that after these measures and the other changes of route have been implemented, a test procedure with regular stoppages at Steinberg station may be in place. If the test scheme is put into operation, it must be possible to stop it if there are negative consequences on the capacity and operational stability leading to delays – etc. And then it says that the Railway Agency, in cooperation with the State Road Administration, will assess whether it can later be established a stop to express buses etc. I think the Council of State in the Chamber here today has expressed itself much more clearly than what it says in the matter of Stortinget to deal with later, so it would have been very OK to confirm, if the reservations that really lie in the matter we are going to deal with afterwards are gone, because the matter has evolved along the way, and if the Council of State really meant to be as clear as he has been – that his ambition is that Steinberg station should be reopened. If that ambition is so clear that it's going to happen, but it's just going to be a little bit of a delay, then maybe we can forgive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4608	Then the Council of State, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, has signed up. The President has evening and night ahead of him, so we can last a long time here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4613	When Stortinget asks, Stortinget will get an answer. The reason why one does not reopen in 2014 is that the assumption that the red-green ones put in – I stress that the red-green ones put it in, but they have therefore completely ignored it in this debate – was that the simulation of the Railway Agency should show a robust solution. This did not do the simulation, and therefore one cannot do so from 2014, unless one takes the risk of major delays. I don't want that risk, because the whole Eastern network is about more than one station. When it comes to doubling the departures of the Sørlandsbanen, I just remember that there is no mention that two hours of departure from Kristiansand is two hours also at night. It's about trying to have a two-hour frequency when people are normally up and going to work. So we don't want to put trains that leave at 0:00. 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30, 00:30 02:30 and 02:30 04.30 – We want to put in trains that go when people commute. That's why that's what the problem is. Most trains have very much available capacity on the South Railway at night, so then Steinberg station would not have been a problem. But if you're going to have those trains to go when other people also take local genes, when there's an extra rush time train, then the problem comes – just so it's clear. Here the representative Myrli should not see any problems. When it comes to what I've said, I'm at it. But the longer we've worked on this, the more robust we see the solution the government has is working. But we've had to start pretty much on scratch by finding those solutions. Therefore, we have not been so sure of where we thought this would end at first. But when we see what's possible, we're pretty sure we're going to do this. But I'm going to repeat what's assumed, that the sample scheme will show if this is as robust as we think it is. We'd rather see the results of reality than just looking at the models. If we were to just take pride in the models here, like the red-green ones provided, we wouldn't have reopened the Steinberg station. That would also be the assumption of the red-green. We're taking action, we're going to see the experience, and then I hope that from the summer of 2015, the Steinberg station is in regular operation. But our willingness to do this is already fundamental from August 18, when trains start to stop again. If we didn't intend to keep the station open, we wouldn't have put in an input train at that station either.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4626	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4640	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4651	Today we have Prp. 97 S on some matters relating to aviation, road and rail for treatment. The bill contains a notification section, where the government informs of ongoing work in several fields, and some decisions in which the government asks for the consent of the Storting to carry out important road and rail projects within an up-to-date cost framework. These proposals have the unanimous support of the Committee. With regard to the point of the Westfold Railway and the Steinberg Station, I see that the Storting through the last debate we had here has been well-explained about the parties' positions, and I don't have to explain anything more about it. Also on the points where the Committee disagrees, each party will come back to it. This proposition presents the first state reports for the government’s work on the organisation of the entire transport sector. One of them is the orientation of a road company, a road company that aims to build a more integrated road, provide more efficient resource use and greater investment in the most socio-economic and profitable projects. What this proposition gives a very clear idea of is that there's now a lot going on in the field of transport. It is clear that it is a new policy, but I think we also have a government and a Minister of Transport who inspires and motivates a transport sector to think new, and who is now clear that they are ready to do things differently. Only one month after the government change came the NSB with its proposal for the total reorganisation of today’s rail sector. At the same time, LO and NHO went together for an opinion, where they, among other things, expected the government to facilitate full project financing. Two months later, NAF launched its overall proposal on what a new road company would look like. Recently, the Fly train also presented how they would reorganise the railway at a meeting with the Transport Committee. It is obvious that the red-green alteration has led to many ideas remaining in the drawer, and that the will to change of the new bourgeois majority is quite clear. That's also why there's a lot of input to us here on the Storting. You can see that that's not all you've done in the past that's been optimal. You can see that you could get more out of each of the allocated heads. I do not expect the Workers' Party or the other parties from the Red-Green Government to support all the necessary changes we have to make, but I am surprised that it makes so little impression on the Red-Green Transport Policy when organisation by organisation, when experts, according to transport experts, come and ask for change, and want reorganisation – that the Workers' Party has so easy to ignore it. An example of that is one of today's issues in the NRK. When the four cooperation parties agree to wish for an overall OPS strategy, and we have great expectations of the government's work on road and runway construction using OPS, there is a cash rejection from the Workers' Party. The representative Sund says: ‘If you call it OPS, road company or fund, this is an attempt to imagine people building more and cheaper just because you call it something else.’ I think it is a pity that once we have a government that wants to do things another way, that takes the actors in the field seriously, and that wants to build faster, more holistic and cheaper, it is rejected in cash, and there comes strong criticism through the remarks in this case. The need for changes in transport policy is very great. This case shows that the government is in full swing and is on its way to delivering the changes and reorganisation that the sector needs so much. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that has been raised in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4689	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4692	Today's big issue is clearly the proposal by the majority of parties to buy roads or other public infrastructure on hire through increased use of so-called public-private cooperation, also known as OPS. In the setting, we note that the f1s, consisting of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, want more projects to be undertaken using OPS and that the government is to propose a separate strategy to this effect to the Stortinget. From the Workers' Party we will express a scepticism for traditional OPS development. We believe that OPS projects are not a forward-looking and modern way of organising and financing transport projects. OPS is comparable to purchasing on credit. It is debt financing to be served by future appropriations and by future generations. In the vast majority of cases, it is more expensive to buy a hire than to pay in cash and that private financing of public road installations is more expensive, which ultimately has to be paid by the community. Now the committee chairman and the case rapporteur have pointed out what others have said, and then I have to say, what are the others saying about OPS? Even today, in the early days, the driver’s organisation, NAF, said that smart road development is more important than building more roads in private – the state must, of course, take the bill. In Sweden, the Moderates – sister party to the Right – Minister of Finance Anders Borg runs over OPS. He says that private companies will lend us money to pay a higher interest rate, and for them to get a return, but that leads to infrastructure projects becoming much, much more expensive. Toryenes – the sister party of committee leader Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – Boris Johnson, rapporteur in London, has said that in other countries they call it looting, but in London they call it OPS. The truth is that the use of OPS causes infrastructure projects to become much, much more expensive. But that's maybe exactly what's right-wing, that some private companies should be able to evade the flow of community funds. In particular, it should be noted that with additional financial costs and OPS, the Progress Party and the Council of States should pay attention. The Progress Party is precisely the party that is engaged in saving the drivers for unnecessary costs. A keyword here is the interest compensation scheme for toll loans, which they work with. When the Workers' Party says no to OPS, it's simply because it gives less money – not because we're old-fashioned, and not because we don't want to. Therefore, the working party model for better road construction is rapid and rational public deployment without the additional costs involved in OPS. We have to put the money on the table. But of course we are open to new and smart models for road construction. With regard to the government's desire to set up a separate road development company, the Workers' Party has not yet taken a decision on this, because we have not received any information on how to organise this company, if any. We therefore assume that the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way. The working party also welcomes the government's commitment to measures to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the tolling sector. Many of the measures in the so-called toll reform of the Right-wing Party government were actually presented by the red-green government in the last NTP. Key elements for improving the efficiency of the adopted NTP were the bundling of toll companies and the coordination of tariff and discount systems. I would also like to highlight the decision to introduce mandatory heavy duty vehicle bombing, which is not least important in order to provide for equivalent conditions of competition in the transport sector. We in the Workers' Party believe that the introduction of mandatory pieces in all vehicles and as a form of payment on the national roads must be of high priority. Furthermore, we have noted the government's work on the announced interest compensation scheme, which now seems to be a different and more bureaucratic method of adding more state capital to the road projects. We will therefore wait to decide on such a scheme until the government returns to Stortinget with a more concrete proposal. This will also be discussed a little further on Thursday in connection with the treatment of the Harstad package. I think it's okay for the government to do it the way they want to. The working party is concerned that we should have the best possible way out of the money we spend. Organisation by organisation and expert according to experts has said that the solution that the government is now presenting with, among other things. OPS, is not a good solution. They ask us to put the money on the table every year – what they will need to do to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4724	I almost became a little breathless by the previous speaker. This proposition is a bit like Saturday good – a bit well mixed with different changes in many fields in the transport sector. The representatives of both the Right and the Workers' Party have now spoken, and the various positions of the government parties and the opposition have emerged. The government will take the big grips, the big structural changes – and not least use a new tool that has never been in the toolbox of the previous government. I'll talk about some of the points. We can get a strategy for using OPS cooperation in the transport sector – preferably in new areas, such as: in aviation. But we in the Progress Party also want to use state-owned, long-term loan capital with an interest rate that is useful in investing in infrastructure. For our part, it is important to be able to distinguish between a consumer crown and an investment crown. Long-termity, predictability and forward-looking infrastructure are at the root of economic development, growth and, above all, road safety. Another point in the proposal takes into account efforts to assess the possibilities for which areas of the tower and protection service could be suitable for competitive outsourcing. It is not privatisation that needs to be investigated, but the outsourcing of competition. This is done because we believe that competition is positive, and that we will be able to achieve a more effective and stronger unity by separating this division. We should not forget that Avinor can thus also compete for the provision of air navigation services in other countries. In addition, Avinor's changing dividend policy, we believe, will stimulate and provide better incentives to drive cost-effectively. So to one of the heart issues for us in the Progress Party, the road company. The company shall have no tasks outside the trans-European transport network and shall be financed at present within the framework of the rules of action. Access to capital from other sources, such as part of the annual tax, will also be assessed. The main objective of the road transport company is to build more roads, better roads and, not least, more roads. The road will link growth areas, be socially viable and have a forward-looking standard. Both ÅDT and road standards shall be realistic in relation to real forecasts. There will also be a toll reform. The aim of this is precisely to eliminate high administrative costs and inefficient collection methods, and to coordinate tariff and discount systems, all of which benefit drivers, either at lower rates, with shorter downtime or in another appropriate way that serves users. The high level of coordination and commitment to road safety is a cross-political agreement. We in the Progress Party are convinced that with the upgrade and the pace of road construction that is now on the stairs, we will see that the number of fatalities and severe injuries will decrease in the years to come. There are several points where the whole committee is in agreement. At any rate, we in the Progress Party are sure that the tools we are now putting into the box will give a boost to the entire transport sector – both for the Left’s representative in a Tesla, the Christian People’s Party on the train, the Central Party’s representative on the tractor, the Labour Party’s representative in a Volvo, SV on the bike and the Environmental Party of the Greens on foot. And what about the government parties? Well, they're on the E39 in a Dodge Viper.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4745	We are facing major challenges in the field of transport, I think we all agree on that. Then we need to look for new ways to stimulate more expansion. In this regard, we on the part of the Christian People's Party are more concerned with using OPS cooperation as an instrument. This applies to both road and rail. Experience has shown that this has been an effective tool. Especially well documented is when it comes to reducing the construction time. We believe that this form of development can be usefully used in several contexts, both on the road and rail, and that it will significantly reduce construction time. We have therefore joined with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left in asking the government to promote a strategy for the use of OPS in the development of infrastructure measures. The establishment of a road development company can also be an important tool that can help to speed up road development. But there are some important assumptions that need to be put in place for this to be effective. Not least, it must be directed towards equity that can give the company muscles to go out into the market and raise the money needed to carry out the projects. It is also necessary to provide some annual revenues that enable them to serve current capital costs, and by the Christian People's Party it is important that the infrastructure can become more comprehensive and that the development time can be shortened by the establishment of the road company. We believe in the tool, but we think it's important that it is properly structured so that it can be effective. A new foot-and-mouth subsidy scheme was adopted in the context of the State budget for 2014. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that one in the negotiations on revision has put in place the first millions of the order. It is important that this is a system that can be applied for by all municipalities and county councils. Today, major cities and urban areas have different types of agreements that allow for the construction of walking and cycling roads with a certain proportion of state funding. What we're talking about here, however, is a system that's going to apply to the whole country. However, in order for this to be effective, it is necessary to make a proper contribution to this budget line from next year's budgets. We expect the government to follow up. If we are to succeed in getting more people to choose bikes, it is essential that we have continuous walking and cycling routes. They have to be designed in a way that makes you feel safe, both walking and cycling. Therefore, it will become increasingly demanding in the future to be able to build safe walking and cycling routes that people are motivated to use. From the Christian People's Party, this is about increasing road safety and contributing to an important environmental benefit. The main objective of the government is not to cause accidents with fatal or severe traffic damage. We are pleased with the cooperation on instruments launched by state agencies and non-governmental organisations. In this way, the plan can be both cross-sectoral and highly professionally founded. From the Christian People's Party, we are going to follow closely the level of goal achievement in the annual feedback to the Stortinget. In the opinion of the Committee, a note was inserted under the heading ‘New Double-track Oslo-Ski’ which the parties Workers’ Party, the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left were at the back of the project, assuming that the ‘Weaving Subdivision’ was still within that project. This sub-project has been withdrawn from the main project and therefore the comment is misleading. In order to make it clear that we are not now asking for a sub-project adopted by the main project, all the parties in the Committee – the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left – have gathered on a proposal which reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a strong link is planned and built to ensure that travellers on the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway can use the Folloban in the future and that this project is part of the work on the next national transport plan. The size suggests that this issue is addressed through an ongoing KVU and that as part of this work it is also seen how a future decision south of Ski can facilitate any future high-speed concepts. The size requests the fastest possible progress in the development of Folloban in line with agreed plans.» This is how the proposal is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4769	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4772	There have been some interesting exchanges of words already, and it may start to move out in the evening, and the summer vacation is attracting. But I was actually going to show map some of the overall, a bit of principled things that lie in this conspiracy proposition, and not go into some projects that were characterized as “good and mixed” by one of the representatives earlier in the debate. I show you, among other things: until the proposal made by the Right, Advance Party, Left and Christian People's Party as a Roman numeral II in the case of OPS. The representative Eirin Sund has now pointed out what the Swedes are saying, but I intend to repeat it and bring with me a little more of what was said. For the Swedes warn against building on chalk, and it is not least a point that it is the Right Sister Party in Sweden at Anders Borg who says this: Private companies want to lend us money. They're doing it for us to pay a higher interest rate, and for them to get a higher return. But this leads to infrastructure projects becoming much, much more expensive. It's about the depreciation of between 20 and 30 pst, which is then just to pay an interest cost. It is also interesting to look back at the election campaign, when Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad was shoulder to shoulder with current Secretary of State Bård Hoksrud against OPS, because the consequences of it were also seen by the Progress Party. So some have obviously lost, and some have obviously won that fight. When the Centre Party is critical to OPS, it is because it is becoming more expensive to build a road with it. The method used in OPS is the batch, and we have also shown that through the treatment of, among others. The holgeland package, where you have to look at a completely different contract structure that is really a state form of OPS. That's a smart way to do it, and the center party is completely for. Otherwise, it is to say that the matter we are dealing with now is marked by the fact that no more money has been allocated to the projects you are submitting – you have re-prioritized them. In the previous case we got, among other things. an example of what has been re-prioritized to move on projects. In addition, some priority has been given to tunnel protection and the development of tunnels to bring money to other projects. All the projects that lie there are largely positive, but more fresh funds should have been found for it. So you don't build a road anymore. One year ago, about this time, there was a debate on the national transport plan, which provided for many improvements and improvements in efficiency and for savings in planning and implementation. In that debate, current positions – the opposition then – promised so much, much more. Now the same parties are in the situation that they must not just promise, they must actually deliver. That's why we're going to follow very closely in the future. So the rapporteur says that we are showing little willingness to change. Well. I have explained why we are critical. We're going to take a closer look at this interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans, but we haven't been given enough grounds to decide on that. In the case of the road company, we have also not seen how to do this, and we want to know that before we say yes or no thanks. The point is that if it's smart, if it gets cheaper, if it gives the most possible way, rail, ports, other infrastructure – and it doesn't get any more bureaucratic – then we might say yes. But if the opposite is the case, that it actually gets more expensive and gives more bureaucracy, then our answer might be pretty clear: no!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4789	This is a comprehensive and broad-spectrum case. That's why I want to focus on a few topics that are particularly important to the Left and myself, and these are about bicycles, trains and road safety. Only about a bike, since I'm an avid cyclist, and there should be even more! First of all, it's very fun, but it's also important for public health, and it's important for the climate. One thing that is particularly good with bicycles as measures is that there is one way to get more people to travel more environmentally friendly on, even outside the largest cities. A good example of this is Alta Municipality, which 14 days ago received the State's Urban Environmental Prize. They won over Stavanger and Trondheim for their bet on a bike. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation then said: ‘The City Cycle project in Alta is impressive and a good example of how small and large cities can take environmental responsibility.’ In Alta, they have implemented a variety of measures to make it easier to travel to school and work and in leisure time. The left wants several small and large municipalities to organise bicycles. That is why we and KRF got a separate reward scheme for bicycles in the state budget and got 10 million. NOK until the start of the scheme now. It has to be more since then, and I have understood that the Council of State has understood, so I hope that he will come along and deliver, because I also know that the Council of State is an avid cyclist! We think it is particularly important that the State contributes to those municipalities that do not currently have the opportunity to receive reward schemes. Therefore, in the comments, we point out that the scheme must cover all municipalities – not just the predefined bicycle municipalities. Bø i Telemark, Eid i Nordfjord, Berg på Senja and Finnøy in Ryfylke can all become municipalities where bicycles become the primary means of emergence for others. The second thing I've been very concerned about working on this proposition is trains. The grips we take together on the Vestfold track, Ofotbanen and Jærbanen are important. It is also very good that we organize for the two-time frequency on the Sørlandsbanen. So I'm going to spend some time on Folloban, not just because it's in my constituency, not just because it's the biggest single investment on the railway, and not just because it's an important first step for the intercity development, but especially because we're going to get two important things fixed on Folloban. Firstly, there shall be a high capacity connection from the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway to Follobanen. It has been very important for me and for the Left to get in place in this proposition. The inhabitants east of the Ski Municipality and in the inner Eastfold should not be put on express buses or on slow trains on the old Eastfold Railway, but be on the fast way into Oslo S. This saves travellers too much travel time. It has been important for me that the bulk of the population confirms this, both because it is important, and because we have to give the commuters and the inhabitants the security and predictability they deserve. The second is that we need to organise a future high-speed rail link to Europe. It must not prevent the Folloban from being put into place until the planned time, but it must nevertheless be prioritised. We can't think four and four years ahead in time, but start thinking in fifty-and-a-hundred years perspective. When we build infrastructure, we have to think good solutions for the foreseeable future. The last thing I want to comment on is road safety. The road safety action plan developed is good and needs to be followed. It is also good that the government informs them that they will inform the Storting about the progress in the field. When we talk about road safety, it's usually cars we talk about. It's very important. The left will be involved in building more midpoints, increasing the presence of the UP and spreading the good attitudes. I remember when I drove up and got the note: my teacher saw me deep into my eyes, grabbed my hand and said, "Don't let me read about you that you drove too fast, was careless and died in traffic. These are the attitudes we need to implement early, because then we will be able to create the good attitudes in traffic as well. We must not forget the soft traffickers either. Better organisation provides better safety for the child on the school road, for she who bikes to work, and for him who has to walk along the highway, on narrow turns, to get to the nearest bus stop. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the majority comments in the setting, because the Left is in all the majority of this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4825	I will briefly go chronologically through some elements contained in the proposition in the discussion about OPS. I have trouble understanding what the government parties, with their supporting parties, mean by OPS. I am not opposed to organising the development under the direction of projects outside the Railway Agency and the State Road Service, if that is what you mean by OPS. I'm not against having innovative contracts in cooperation between state agencies, where they can set functional requirements, and where companies can use their innovative power to find their own solutions that they think are better than previously chosen solutions. But it is unclear whether that is what the parties mean. I do not disagree with having contracts that add up to a risk sharing. If you do things cheaper, it could be a win for both parties, both private and public. If you share the risk, you also share the costs if it gets more expensive. But I'm against borrowing money or launching a project where you actually pay private money to finance something that the public should finance over its budgets, or where you push costs into the future in a way that's not the best for the community. I would like to have answers from the government parties to the question of what in the world it is they mean when they say OPS. The second is the question of road companies. There I wholeheartedly support the comments of the Centre Party and the Workers' Party. I think it's amazing that the Stortinge is in favour of making the decisions on road companies, on the revised national budget, without a proper and good assessment of what this road company really is, and what the premises are. The third thing I want to mention is that I'm critical of the dividend policy to which it is added for Avinor. I believe that Stortinget is actually dissuading part of the management of the development projects that are located there. I would also like to ask the Council of States very specifically which assumptions form the basis of the interest-rate compensation scheme. It may not be that if some counties choose to have a high share of tolls in order to be given priority in the queue, it will automatically trigger a greater share of money from the state. It's going to be a completely unreasonable chrysing, in my opinion. In fact, it is necessary to have governance here, and then it is better to do so through the frameworks given to the county councils, or through appropriations from the state budget that go directly to concrete projects. I am in favour of the government's adding up in terms of fewer toll companies, and look forward to the further work on it. I will use my last minutes of speaking time to mention two things: In the revised national budget, we are adding more money to both walking and cycling routes and railways, over 235 million. kr, which would increase the ability to bet on the railway. We might also have avoided some of the re-priorities that we see, and got a bigger stake on the railway. I want to focus on the question of Oslo-Ski and Follobanen, because this is very unclear to me. There are people in this room who have a longer history in this matter than I do, so I just want to ask the Council of State two things: I am now told by colleagues in the party and local residents that the premise underlying the Storting in connection with the National Transport Plan, by the Committee and others, that goods should go both on the Folloban and on the existing line, is no longer the case, and that goods should not go on the Folloban. Is that right? The second question is on the high-speed track, the planning of the high-speed track and the derailment there. I feel very uncertain about the progress of the high-speed rail system, if it is the case that Stortinget has clear decisions on the high-speed rail system and the organization and construction of this already in connection with Follobanen, but that the railway system has planned not to implement it now and will push it on a later occasion. Then the Council of State needs to clarify whether this is about to happen now. The third thing I want to ask is the question of the connection of the line between the goods from Alnabru and into Follobanen, which was a clear assumption, as I see it, from the national transport plan. Is it that the connection is now dropped, or pushed on to a later date? These are very important questions, and I would like to ask for clarification on how the Council of State interprets proposal No. 1, which is promoted by a majority of the parties here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4861	Many individual cases have been promoted here, which in itself does not mean many short-term appropriations, but which means many commitments in the long term, on road projects and on railway projects. I think the long-term commitments we assume are at least as much worth in terms of efficiency as the amounts we grant in the first year. Here there is a lot on both air, road and rail, and I am glad that there is good and broad support in Stortinget for this. There are many road projects that get green light for further progress, and so there are future commitments to many tens of billions that one undertakes here. I'm glad the Storting is in. The review of national road safety work is important. The fight against road accidents, deaths in traffic, is a priority for this government, and it was a priority for former governments. We have to keep working together. Bicycle and pedestrian routes are mentioned. I can confirm to the representative Raja that it is also important for us. In the revised budget, there is more concreteity than here, and there will also be something to be included in the 2015 budget. As far as the railway is concerned, it is referred to as a grip on Ofotbanen, Follobanen and Vestfoldbanen. It's good that someone gets the support to take things further there. At the same time, given the last debate on Steinberg Station, it would be interesting to hear from both the Workers' Party and the Centre where the money went off to reopen Steinberg Station. When one at the same time admits that one will spend money on the Westfold Railway and keep progress on the Farriseidet–Porsgrund, then there is no money to reopen the Steinberg station, for which one has just argued. If I have misunderstood, I would like to be informed about it, but we do not find it in the revised budget, which the Storting will adopt on Friday. In the case of road appropriations, I register the criticism that comes from the Central Party. I just remind you that today's government has granted approx. 2 billion. kr more to highways and highways than the previous government provided. The money is in place, and a lot of reforms are in progress. On the way, we are now setting up an interim company to put our road company in place – a first step in an important reform work. The representative Sund said she didn't know anything about this company, but it's mentioned in the proposition, and together with the mention of the bomb company, there are several pages of this, so a few should come along. The same applies to the reorganisation of the bomb companies. There we now gather the organisational governance. We warn that we want to share operatorship and other things so that one also gets a competition in the market, but one gets a simpler administrative unit. We have also announced, so late as Friday, that we will introduce mandatory bombing on heavy vehicles, so here it is delivered on a continuous basis. The interest-rate compensation scheme is mentioned and there is a way to ensure that the drivers pay for the road but not for the cost of financing. It gives the state an incentive to reduce the borrowing costs, the level of interest, from the high level that was under the previous government. This is further specified in the Harstad package, which Stortinget will deal with on Thursday – if I do not remember errors. Then the bulk of the population has a suggestion on the OPS. It is a very good proposal, and I will try to deliver as best I can on it already in the budget for 2015. I note that the red-green parties argue against it. It doesn't surprise me, but the reasoning they come with surprises me. The red-green parties say they're opposed to buying a road on credit. During the last four years of the red-green government, the toll debt doubled to 35 billion. kr. That's 35 billion. kr used to buy the road on credit. If you are against it, you can ask why they have pursued a policy they themselves were against when they crashed. This I'm not going to harmonize. In addition, in the previous debate, I registered about the Steinberg station, the government and the large majority of people getting criticism from the representative Micaelsen that we have actually started spending money paying off this debt faster than the red-green plan by granting money over the state budget. So the red-greens are opposed to buying the road on credit, but they've done it to a large extent. They're very critical when this government pays down that debt, even though they're against buying the way on credit. Unfortunately, it does not harmonize. That's why I'm glad you look at OPS as a system. This is not about borrowing money primarily from the private sector. This is about an implementation method, and we can reduce the cost of finance in this way, and we can find solutions where the state pays off the main debt very quickly, but holds back a bit of the loan, so that the obligations of the operator or the road builder for future maintenance are implemented, and that you do not pay everything right away. It's a common household principle for everyone who cleans up their house – not to pay the craftsmen monthly, but to pay when they're done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4887	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4890	I have said before in this Chamber to Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen that he can talk about what has been before, but now he is responsible for what is here and now and now. So I think the Council of State should answer the questions we have, instead of asking questions about what we might have done when we were sitting with the government. Everyone knows what we did. People have seen the results. Last spring, Bård Hoksrud said to the class struggle: ‘OPS is a miserable way of financing road development. Instead of making expensive loans for road construction by the builders, the money needed should be deposited by the State.’ He also said that the Right Solution with OPS was wasted money. Then I ask the Council of State: what has happened this year, which means that the Council of State and the Advance Party have completely turned to OPS as a good tool for building up infrastructure measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4904	First, the entire proposition that we're now presenting shows that we're working forward. We're getting more progress for many road projects. We keep the pace up on the Follo track, the Westfold track and many others. So there's no doubt that we take responsibility, and use that responsibility in a good way. But it does not deprive us of the opportunity to remind the voters and others in this room of what has been done in the last eight years, and that we have not been satisfied with the results, and that there are some inconsistencies in the criticism that the previous government is promoting against today's government and what they are doing. In the case of OPS, today's government has said that we need to use more OPS. That's what the mass mass is now saying. The party to which the advance has been critical has been the method of financing, where private financing is allowed at a higher interest rate than would be required if the government had made that debt financing. But we do that easily by saying that the state, for example. provides a State guarantee for that loan, or that you pay off the principal more quickly, as I mentioned in my post. We have reached a very good compromise, where the principles of OPS are used, and the funding costs go down.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4911	I thank you for your answer. At the same time, we see that in many contexts, among other things. in the argument about the interest-rate compensation scheme, that the Progress Party and the Council of State are concerned with the minimum payment of the drivers. I expect that we also believe that the community will pay as little as possible. But to the construction industry, just after he became a minister, the Council said that it is in the basics of the Progress Party and the Right that you are friendly to private companies. Therefore, it is now more prepared to use the OPS arrangement. Is it the case that the Council of State is willing to pay the price of that kindness when you see that experts and others, including evaluations that the Department itself has done, show that it will be much more expensive to build a road and a path in this way? Are you willing to ease the cost of driving lists and future generations to finance this in a way that you don't know is a wise way to do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4918	Three OPS road projects have been built in Norway. Experience from this suggests that projects are being implemented more quickly than has often been the case with public projects. This does not indicate that it is becoming more expensive. So the claims that the Workers' Party is promoting here are not reflected in the experiences of Norway. What is positive about OPS is that a person is given a dynamic on the market. A few different actors who like to have different ideas about how to solve something and who, through tendering processes, show different solutions that the country can choose from, rather than having only one actor. I think it is a little strange that the Workers' Party is critical that private companies should be allowed to plan and project a project, but it is quite fine that it is private companies that build it. Then it's the same bad market forces that make money building a road, and then I don't understand why it's bad to use competence on planning, while it's quite easy to use the contractors. So here's an illogical approach from the Workers' Party. We use the good forces to get more money back, and that's in the interests of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4929	This proposition refers to an interest-rate compensation scheme that the government will promote for the Storting as its own case. We know that these toll agreements that have been concluded around the country are often the result of some fragile compromises where you have tried to back up a little conflicting interests, for example. where one has introduced a differentiated toll charge at higher rates during the rush hour and lower for the rest of the day, in order to make more people choose collectively and reduce queues. An interest-rate compensation scheme, which has been so far perceived by one, shall provide for reduced toll charges and may thus help to reduce some of the impact of a differentiated toll charge. What is the Council of State thinking about these kinds of issues with regard to the development of an interest-rate compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4936	The interest-rate compensation scheme is intended by the government as a contribution from the State to cover the financing costs and gives the State an interest or incentive to contribute to reducing the level of interest on the loans themselves. That incentive doesn't have the state today. The previous government would not be able to provide State guarantees on this type of loan. There is something today's government is working on after the decision from the bulk of the population, which is also represented by the representative Gruvan. With regard to how this contribution to the various toll projects is distributed, we have said that in the first round – as it appears in the Harstad package – we will reduce the rate, but when the scheme is finally in place, it will be up to the different projects to choose whether to use it through higher discounts to increase the chip usage, reduce the discount time or reduce the rate. It may choose depending on the purpose of tolling projects locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4943	The evaluation of the three OPS projects well showed that we still have to pay on it for quite a long time, and as far as I know, it's inside the state budget, and it's going to be there for quite a number of years to come. And media surveys last autumn also showed that those behind the expansion companies had quite a good return on what they had invested. Now it's not wrong, from the Central Party's point of view, that people make money – on the contrary – but the question is, is it smart to use that method? The centre lot is positive to use the experience of the OPS method, with planning and contract structure. We see that as an advantage in terms of getting a more comprehensive expansion, as we do in the Helgelands package. So then the question to the Council of State is, is it the method, but not the private capital contribution, that the Council of State will use?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4948	That is the way to organise it, where the contractors to build come early into the design and planning phase, and where a person is given overall responsibility for the road section even after it has been completed. The experience from, for example: The Kristiansand-Lillesand section of the E18 was that the Vegvesen needed far fewer supervisors during construction, because the contractor who built knew that if they tried to cheat or make mistakes themselves, it was the ones who got the cost of repairing it again because they had 15 years of maintenance responsibility. It is self-evident that there are incentive structures in OPS that enable one to obtain quality products. As far as funding is concerned, we have said that the state does not need to borrow money. Therefore, one can look at how one can help to reduce interest costs. So that's not the primary method of financing. I remind you again that the previous government increased the toll to 35 billion. kr. It is a little strange that the red-greens get sour when a government imposes debt obligations through OPS, but it seems perfectly right to impose even more indebtedness on the drivers through ordinary toll projects. It doesn't harmonize.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4958	After hearing the discussion about OPS, I think that it can really be quite clarifying to get a strategy from the government about this, for people talk about OPS in completely different ways and from what kind of elements they focus on. There are several of those that the Council of State places on, to which I myself am positive, and which I believe will contribute to innovation. But there are very many aspects of OPS that are extremely negative and that, in my opinion, only contribute to problems. But we're getting a debate on this at a later stage, so I'd like to ask the Council of State not to spend time on it in their reply to me. On the other hand, what I would like to ask for is the following: I asked a number of questions about the Folloban. The Council of State said instead that when big business representatives ask, they should receive answers. Can the Council of State give me answers to the questions I asked about Follobanen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4965	Firstly, I would like to thank you for a constructive approach to OPS usage, as opposed to that of former government colleagues. Then we'll see when we promote this, what we agree on and don't agree on. At least that's a good approach. In the case of Folloban, we're very happy that we're now getting started. We start with physical construction. With regard to the use of freight trains on this track, there is something that a worker is working on. There are several alternatives available after the previous government, and we want to get to a good system. It's natural to engage in a slightly more thorough debate on Folloban in general. As far as the access points of the eastern line are concerned, I am very pleased with the proposal that is now available from the Stortinget, which is being adopted. That means we want to maintain progress. The note, as interpreted, would lead to several years of delay. The clarifying proposal is now very good. In the case of lightning trains, it's not the priority of this government. We're prioritizing commuter work, but we're going to facilitate lightning trains in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4976	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e4979	With regard to the proposals made by the Proposition in the field of aviation, we note that the government, with its partners, the Christian People's Party and the Left, wants to compete with the tower and security services in aviation, and that the Ministry of Transport has started work to assess which air navigation services are suitable for competitive deployment. 2013 was a particularly good year for Norwegian aviation safety, overall. One commercial aviation accident and seven private accidents is a very low number, especially when one knows that the activity was record high. No crew member or passenger was seriously injured during flight in Norway or with Norwegian aircraft abroad last year. Since 1970 it has only been one year before that it has not been killed in Norwegian aviation. The working party will not be involved in any proposal that could impair flight safety. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the Right-Fremskritsparte government says they want to compete with the tower and security services in aviation. I wonder if the minister can answer me if they have concluded, or if the government will come back to Stortinget with a case. At the same time, I would like to stress that any proposal for a competitive air navigation service must be of a professional and cost nature and not, as it may seem, based on ideology alone. Avinor has asked the Ministry of Transport to strengthen equity by 2 billion. This is in order to implement the major investments that are at stake. The government boasts of action. Today we have heard it repeatedly after time: it is only the minister, his party and his government that can deliver. In this case, he has so far failed to deliver. In order to speed up the expansion of Flesland, among other things, they asked for 2 billion. kr in increased equity. But what's happened is that you've changed the dividend policy so that they can keep more of the profits. In the period from 2014 to 2017, they will retain the surplus, which may be more than 1 billion. kr, i.e. after the State has taken 50 pst. of 1 billion kr. We agree with this incentive to operate effectively, but at the same time we will continuously assess the need to increase equity beyond that, as there is a large development project pending, and there is no guarantee that they will strengthen their equity. In 2013, Avinor received a profit of 890 million. kr. This means that at least they don't get any extra benefit from this change in dividend policy in the first year. In fact, they get less because they came under the budget that had been added for 2013. In the position that exists, we have noticed that the majority, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, want more projects to be implemented using public-private cooperation, also called OPS, and that the government should promote its own strategy on this for the Stortinget. On behalf of the Workers' Party, we express – as you have heard from others today – a great scepticism for traditional OPS deployment. We believe that OPS projects are not a forward-looking and modern way of organising and financing transport projects. OPS may, as we have heard, be compared to purchasing on credit and is debt financing to be served by future appropriations. In most cases, it is more expensive to buy a deposit than to pay in cash. When the Workers' Party says no to OPS, it is simply because it gives less money. Therefore, the working party’s better road construction model is rapid and rational in public terms, without the additional costs involved in OPS, but we are obviously open to new and better road construction models. We have actually shown this recently in Stortinget, when we adopted and approved the Road Package E6 Helgeland north from Korgen to Bolna. There we're going to expand with a so-called road development contract, which does not have the financing part that makes the projects more expensive. So here one has to outsource both expansion, operation and maintenance for a 15-year period on a distance of 16 miles. It's also assuming you're going to do the same thing to the rest of E6. At the same time, I note that, with the majority's proposal, the Progress Party has changed its view of OPS from this autumn. At least they were in contrast to the financing part. Here I think the minister is a little unclear today, and it would be good to know if the minister really means development contracts, or if he means OPS without the financing part. We have not received an answer to that, and then it may not be a traditional OPS minister really wants to present to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5007	When it comes to OPS and tolls, I think it's a very good comparison, because when we build roads in Norway, build tolls to a large extent, we build first, then we borrow the money, and then we pay back tolls afterwards. It's borrowing financing or buying on credit. I'm going to take another angle for this approximation proposition, Prop. 97 S, brings many things into the Storting under one umbrella. The common thing for all the cases is that they start important projects, and I'm essentially going to focus on the railway projects. With a population growth around the largest cities of 1.5-2 pst. there is an expected need for more than a doubling of public transport. The railway has an important role as the backbone of this system. The main challenge will be to provide the necessary capacity, both rail capacity and train equipment. In a previous case, I have underlined a challenge for a new base route model in terms of track capacity. It is therefore important to follow up the planned increase in this particular case. Oslo and Akershus constitute the main hub of the train transport and over 60 pst. NSB customers travel in Oslo and Akershus. It is also important that most land-based freight transport goes to or through the region. As of today, there is a great need to complete the construction of the Folloban and find a reasonable expansion of capacity through Oslo. I am pleased that we can today set the cost framework for the train tunnel between Oslo and Ski. This project increases capacity through the South Corridor and links Eastfold cities closer to Oslo. The number of customers is expected to increase by 11000 per day. In addition, it is the first step towards an improved connection with Gothenburg and the continent. In view of the desire to get more goods from road to road, the South corridor has the greatest potential to achieve this. The construction of the Folloban is time-consuming and complicated. There have been many input and suggestions for alternative solutions and trick ideas. I'm of the opinion of planning in Norway is like a ladder game. If you slip wrong, you can slide down to the start. Now that we've gone through the whole process of planning Follobanen and even finished KS 2, it's therefore time to put the spade in the ground and start. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee is promoting a verbal proposal which gives a clear signal to the ministry to stick to the plan laid down and to build upon it. The work on external quality assurance of this project was completed in April 2014. The recommendation of the quality insurer is a cost framework converted into EUR 26,3 billion in 2014. kr and a steering frame of 24.4 billion. kr. There is agreement between the Railway Agency and external quality assurance bodies on this point. It is also important that the proposition brings with it some other railway projects that are important. Much is about freight terminals, and I am very pleased with the process that has now been in ours, where the Council of State and the Government have clarified very many of the conflicts and choices that have been associated with the choice of the location of freight terminals – that this pattern is gradually being put in place. So we know there's a great need to do something about Alnabru. There was a question about whether the Folloban should have goods and whether it should have a branch in the track. The size has not taken a decision on – or has, quite the opposite, said that they have no sense of – the high-speed rail system at the present time. The point is that if you plan all new rail tracks for 250 km/h and you want to be able to use them in a sensible way, we cannot mix traffic with slow and fast trains. For us, I think 250 km/h is really a fast train – at least a high-speed train. Even though I'm busy with the railroad, I also have a certain heart for the road. The train is an important carrier of travellers, but the road and the bus play an even greater role. In this proposition, there is another matter that we are dealing with in Akershus. It's E16 from Sandvika to the Voyage. The fact that one actually manages to start it in half a year and gets important investments already in 2014, is a pleasure for us in Akershus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5026	I record that the Workers' Party is a little impressed by what the government has presented. However, they do not have an alternative proposal, and they vote in favour of the vote, even if they are critical in the debate. This has become a trend in the matters of transport, so I am not so surprised at that anymore. On the other hand, what I am a little surprised about, and I have to ask the Labour Party to elaborate, is what they have said in the debate, and what the representative Sund said to the NRK today. I quote: «Introducing OPS is like trading on credit cards and everyone knows that it is better to act in cash than on credit.» But isn't it just this Workers' Party itself has done for eight years, but by tolls? Norwegian bomb projects pay high interest for their loans. Much of this is money borrowed from abroad while Denmark has borrowed our oil money for 1 pst. interest, and Germany has borrowed to 1.8 pst. interest rate. The municipal bank and the oil fund are both 100 pst. State owned, but the Municipal Bank has not received a loan from the oil fund. Instead, the Municipal Bank has picked up 97 pst. of its capital from abroad, while providing loans to 21 of the Norwegian bombing projects. So we borrowed oil money cheaply and borrowed money from home. I now have to ask the Labour Party to clarify whether they have changed their view of tolls when they today warn against borrowing roads and say that they will build a road rather than pay interest. Or they are only against debt financing if it is privately involved. If they've now turned into debt financing, there's something we in the Progress Party like to hear, because the Progress Party has always thought that we have to stop borrowing cheaply and borrowing cheaply, and we've thought that we have to invest more of our wealth in transport. In the government, we are now getting an impact on parts of this, in the form of, for example, increased appropriations for the transport budget, reduced toll ratio, toll reform and the creation of road companies. Since the Workers' Party is now so clearly saying that they are opposed to trading on credit cards, I take it for granted that they will in future support the proposal for less debt financing, they will be positive to the toll reform, the interest compensation scheme, and last but not least they will vote for more government funds for road construction and thus less use of tolls. In that case, it is very gratifying that they are now meeting the Progress Party, and it only shows that the Progress Party in government is an advantage when we are able to make the largest opposition party change policy and thus realize that its transport policy has been misplaced. It is not just the criticism from the Workers' Party about debt financing that is a record bomb. It's also a record bomb when they boast of what their own government did. The red-greens like to hit their chests and say that the previous government was busy betting on infrastructure, and they always mention increased appropriations. According to the annual reports of the State Road Administration, 10.7 km of motorway was opened in Norway in 2006. How can it be that in 2013 only 10.6 km of motorway was built in Norway with the shift of the red-greens with a doubling of the budget? So it was built less motorway in 2013 than in 2006, despite the efforts of the time. The reason is simple, but it also shows that the Workers' Party is trying on cheap and populist rhetoric when they only talk about increased appropriations and not actual results. In 2005, it cost 82,000 kroner per metre of highway we built, in 2014 it will cost 213,000 kroner per metre of highway we built. This is the result of a very long period of road construction in Norway and the fact that most road sections are divided into small sections, which is both irrational and costly. The new growth rate has understood that there are not only increased appropriations that need to be made if we want more way, we need to think new when it comes to planning, when it comes to design, and when it comes to implementation. We want to be able to raise some major road projects, without having to look at annual appropriations in the state budget. The Progress Party has proposed its own road company several times, but the proposal has only received the votes of the Progress Party. In government, we are now able to see that there will be such a company. It is therefore very gratifying that it will come, and with a more predictable and long-term funding basis we will be able to ensure that we finally get more money for each krona being invested.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5050	The regulatory time for the evening meeting has now come to an end and the President will propose that the meeting continue until the current map has been finalised. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5055	The red-green lots provided for the coordination of projects and actions in time and geographical terms in the national transport plan. It refers to the overall planning and development of longer distances including smaller measures, such as road safety measures, universal design and pedestrian and cycling arrangements. The result will be fewer planning and tendering processes and more efficient resource use and faster implementation. It also provides faster utility, faster finishing and more money. It's a good strategy that the Labour Party believes the government has to follow up, and you can get a little idea that it hasn't started or completed any major road projects in the last eight years, when everyone knows it's not right. I just need to be informed that once the Council of State is going to hand over its key in the future, there will still be projects to be started up and realized. To the representative Roy Steffensen, who swung to the great heights and was almost indignant that the Workers' Party did not have its own proposals in the proposition we are now discussing: As far as I am aware, we are voting on increasing cost frameworks for some of the projects described, and I can assure the representative Roy Steffensen that we are in order to implement those projects. We in the Workers' Party will develop a modern and forward-looking transport system. On the road issues mentioned in the proposal, I would like to say that, with regard to the government's desire to set up that extension company, the Workers' Party, as our main figure Eirin Sund has explained, will wait until we know the matter and have received the information that the Stortinget will receive in such cases. We assume that the measures to improve the efficiency and efficiency of the toll sector described by NTP are also being taken, for most of the measures of the so-called toll reform of the Right-wing Party government, presented by the red-green government of the national transport plan. Key elements for improving the efficiency of the adopted NTP were the merging of toll companies and the coordination of tariff and discount systems. I would also like to highlight the decision to introduce a mandatory piece for heavy-duty vehicles. It is not least important to provide for equivalent conditions of competition in the transport sector. We have noted the government's work on the announced interest compensation scheme. It seems to be a little bit different and a little more bureaucratic to add more state capital to the road projects. We will therefore wait to decide on such a scheme, until the government reaches the Stortinget in an appropriate manner with a concrete proposal. As others have mentioned, it will also be discussed later this week when we have the Harstad package for treatment. We in the Workers' Party are concerned that the sharp increase in the appropriations that we provided before entrusting the government offices to today's government imposes increased demands on the efficient use of resources. Unfortunately, we don't think the signs point completely in the right direction. It's kind of a woolly plotting proposition, like, among other things. shows that the Council of State does not have a clear formulation on how to further develop tolls as a tool. The Council of State has repeatedly explained the opening-up of the Progress Party at the elections, which was 16 p.m., but the Progress Party must, in any case, both present and adopt many new toll projects, and manage those we have. The progress party is, like the rest of the Stortinget, now for tolls as funding. To cover this, complex rules and administrative arrangements are established, which, in our opinion, could lead to the recruitment of several bureaucrats. The working party is, as I said, waiting for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5074	Total proposal Prop. 97 S to the revised national budget covers three programme categories: air, road and rail. First, I will be allowed to say a few words about road – more specifically about how we can build more roads for the money. In the Right, we're busy finding new, good solutions, and we're now looking forward to achieving much more, much faster, by having an approach where competition is actually healthy, and private actors can contribute positively. The government has signalled that they will use new tools to build up the infrastructure, as well as a reorganization of the existing toll sector. It is high time user payment management was organised in an even more cost-effective way. The tolling sector needs better incentives to make the collection more efficient, and it requires restructuring, better role-sharing and competition, so that new technologies are developed and put into practice. The government is in favour of an organisational separation between the operator and the sender of the tiles. This is good, and it could ensure competition, with customer-friendly solutions, where road users actually only need to contract with one company when running in Europe. The device has not yet been clarified, but I would like to encourage the follow-up of the decision of the Stortinges Consultant from 20 March 2013, which is linked to the EFC Directive. Now I want to look at the most "floating" of the three application areas. Having said that, I think that this government has shown the ability not to make aviation policy floating, in the transferred sense. Concrete measures have been put in place and clear plans have been signaled, which could provide safety for the aviation industry. The government will launch competitive tower and securing services in line with the government platform. The air navigation service shall be converted into a subsidiary in line with the Avinor ownership message. Dividends policy has been changed so that Avinor is now more likely to shape its own development and investment. We see this as a good example in Bergen, where Avinor has now seen speed in the development of a damaged extension terminal 3 in Flesland. In addition, the reduction in the dividend requirement from the State has given Avinor better incentives to operate cost-effectively. The red-green government had no suggestions — and stupid money or measures — for Flesland. This shows that there is room for innovation within the trade, and that new ideas actually give better solutions, which also the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has commented here today that he has seen the positive aspects of it. The Labour Party and the Centre have commented that the Right Party and the Progress Party want to compete in aviation, and they stress that they are particularly concerned that this should not be based on ideology alone. There might be reason to ask questions about skepticism is at least as much ideologically based as the desire to actually use competitive exposure to achieve the best quality of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5100	I must say that I am always as enthusiastic as I can debate Norway's largest and most important railway project, Follobana. I'm very pleased that a now is very well started with the preconstructive monkey and the preparation of the huge tunnel drill. Interested people can watch a video of the project on the home page of theblad of East Germany, on oblad.no, and what is actually started on the project. For us who are interested in the railway, this is a very nice video. There have been some concerns about the project recently, because in winter the spokespersons in the inner Eastfold wrote a letter that they were no longer in favour of the mediation protocol, since the consequences did not concern connection on the east line. I understand that the Østfold municipalities could be concerned when they read in the impact report on the proposal for a bus instead of trains. Therefore, I am very pleased that we are now resolving the matter, and that the objection to the regulation plan for Follobana and Ski Station has been withdrawn. This means that the regulatory plan is finally adopted and that an obstacle to the further implementation of this important project has been removed. Eastfold municipalities Askim, Eidsberg, Hobøl, Marker, Skiptvet, Spydeberg and Trögstad confirm that they have withdrawn their objections. They confirmed it to the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. In the joint proposal underpinned today, the Government of the United Kingdom is asking that travellers on the east coast of Eastfoldbana be connected to Follobana in the future and that this project be integrated into the work of the next national transport plan. The proposal concludes that the Stortinget asks for the fastest possible expansion of Follobana, in line with agreed plans. It is true that there are many who had wanted the so-called "Surveillance Subsidiary", which there has been some misunderstanding about here. She was thought to be a forward-looking possibility for once a lightning train to both Stockholm and Gothenburg. Unfortunately, she is out of the project, but I still trust that we can make a good connection south of Ski, as the proposal says. It can also address future rail challenges. The most important thing is that we get started on the project. The red-green government proposed 1.2 billion in the 2014 budget. kr for further design, land acquisition and pre-construction and construction start, if any. Fortunately, it also continued the new government and the new plurality. It is very important now that the project is also given funds to the future plan in the 2015 budget. The new Follobana will provide a travel time of 11 minutes from Oslo to Ski. It's a big raise that's given to all of the commuters when we get started here. It is also the beginning of the intercity triangle Oslo–Halden, which I think the government should actually be finished in 2023 in a meeting we had in the laying room last year. I think the NTP says it's 2030. Anyway, with Follobana in progress, we're a good step on the way to intercity. It is also the gateway to Europe – I have said that many times. When I started working on this matter at Stortinget, the price estimate was 12 billion. kr. Today, we're adopting a 26-billion-billion-dollar frame. kr. Then I thought I'd just hurry up and build before it gets even more expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5121	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5125	It is positive that we are now following up on the work of the red-green government and getting in place an extension of double tracks on the railway between Oslo and Ski. It is an important first step for the establishment of double tracks all the way from Oslo to Halden, with a view to completing double tracks to Gothenburg. It's important for a lot of reasons. On the one hand, we need increased capacity for passenger transport on the route. On the other hand, this capacity could also facilitate more transport of goods. It is known that one of our most important ports today is in Gothenburg, Sweden. We also need to facilitate the transport of goods to Gothenburg both for environmental reasons and in order to secure jobs. At the same time, the rail track in Ski divides into a western and an eastern line. There has been a strong local commitment from both rapporteurs and commuters to put in place a connection in Ski. This also resulted in a comment being submitted by the majority of the Committee. The new proposal in the case, it solves the proposal, addresses this in a good way. It will be beneficial for the development of this region around the east line to ensure that a connection is maintained. We as a society need to invest enough in a good rail network towards the big cities, so that we are ready for the future growth of passengers and freight transport. We're not going to solve this with OPS, which becomes a more expensive solution, and which gives us less railway for money. It is good that we see in this case that there will be an extension that will ensure development and growth for the region by starting the construction of double tracks and facilitating connection to the eastern line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5136	I record in the debate that both the Workers' Party and the Centre reduce public–private cooperation to be the purchase of a road with credit cards or on payment. I find that very regrettable. The Labour Party, which, in its new opposition role, wants to appear innovative, is far from it in the field of transport policy. There are only old ideas and old solutions that apply. For many years, we have developed a transport policy that aims to build more roads and lanes faster. It means faster planning times and new ways of organising construction and operation and maintenance. With the Right and Advance Party in government, there is a much more pragmatic approach to the use of instruments in the transport sector. Public-private cooperation has proved to be an appropriate way of organising large-scale transport projects, where the risk is predictable. The three OPS projects carried out as a pilot project in Norway showed that the projects were carried out in time and at a foreseeable cost to the State. Yes, we can view OPS as an insurance against exceedances in some contexts. Another advantage of public–private cooperation is that investment, operation and maintenance are viewed in a coherent way, which stimulates operationally smart solutions. The Norwegian OPS model is actually so successful that it is also well-considered outside its borders. The working party was involved and started these projects, and it is therefore strange that they did not want to continue the good experience of new projects, but rather talk down this way of organizing the construction of the road and the path on. Here SV is much more constructive in the debate. It is only a focus on funding that public–private cooperation is debt financing of the road. Public-private cooperation is primarily an organisational form, and public-private cooperation can well be structured in such a way as to pay the majority of its share when the project is completed. Then the borrowing requirement is reduced to a minimum. The loan that's left is maybe a toll loan, and that's an acceptable way to finance the way, including for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. One of the questions about the three parties is if you are going to ban debt financing on the road, will one then stop giving municipalities and county councils the opportunity to finance large-scale road development? I think it is a relevant issue that should be discussed by the three parties. With a new government, several major reforms have already been undertaken in the transport sector. A road carrier is established that will become operational from 2015. They have launched a reform of the toll sector to ensure that it is as effective as possible, so that as much of the toll as possible goes into road construction. Today, the four cooperation parties, we are asking the government to present its own strategy for public–private cooperation. Where the red-green government has stagnated in old minds, new grips are now being taken, and new tools are being used to build more roads and lanes faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5155	I just want to touch quickly into this OPS debate. It gets a little weird when I'm taken from several representatives here to income for a view that suddenly I'm now much more constructive to OPS. Some of this is about the use of terms. You can't talk about OPS and then you mean development contracts, if that's what you really mean. SV at the Nesodden was at the forefront of the municipal sector to introduce development contracts with Skanska in order to get a good project, the Tangent school, which at the time it was opened, was the most energy-efficient building, which was just created through cooperation between public and private. But there was no problem with the funding there. On the other hand, there has been funding in the United Kingdom, where the government of Tony Blair carried out a bunch of OPS projects, which were, in effect, like peeing in their pants, in order to carry out large-scale bets – ‘tits in their pants’ in order to stay warm, President, it must be inside – that they had no money for, but that private people were more than willing to fund for sky-high commitments that were pushed into the future. I am concerned that this type of OPS is both the road carrier and the type of OPS for which the Government Parties are involved. If we talk about development contracts, we can have a constructive and good debate at a later stage. But that's what we'll see when this strategy that the majority in this room wants is presented. I want to spend my time on Follobanen. I want to say two things. I understand that it was a clear premise for Stortinget when it was decided to build Follobanen, that one should have high-speed railway facilities at a later stage, with a separate track for this, which was to be built, because it is insanely expensive to build this at a later stage. It will involve interruptions and all kinds of things. But if you build it at the moment you build the big tunnel, you've set up a high-speed train. I do not feel that the Storting at any later time has said that this can be dropped. If it's that the government doesn't insist on high-speed tracks, then the government believes that you can kind of drop it, well then I think it's a breach of Storting's assumptions. I now see that there is a majority here who propose something else that is being presented, and that opens up to push this forward in time. I also hear, as I said, the Council of State say that this government is not in favour of the high-speed rail system, but a majority agreement has been reached in the budget, which is now planning an overall expansion: it is therefore planning for a high-speed rail between Gothenburg and Oslo. If you remove the first piece on a path like this, that's to make it easier for the first big bet to go away, I'd say it's some kind of blackmailing of the Storting that's very, very hard to accept, with all the reservations that this is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5176	The President is uncertain whether the expression used by the representative is parliamentary, but is at least absolutely certain that it is an adverse way to keep the heat warm.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5179	There have been so many questions, and there are so many kicks in the east and west that I don't know where to start. But I want to start by saying that I was once a State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport. I was the Secretary of State when the three OPS projects were fired. Creating a picture that someone is immature and old-fashioned, because you want to be that and don't want to try anything new, is completely wrong. But those projects have taught us something. I want to give an example. So the three OPS projects we have today have a fixed interest rate of 5 pst. and 6 pst., while toll companies receive a loan of 3.6 pst. You could do a 6 pst problem. and smooth with 3.6 pst. If you borrow 1 000 kroner today – over 25 years – to 6 pst. interest, you have to commit to pay a total of $1000 in instalments plus $955 in interest. If you borrow to 3.6 pst. interest, it's going to be $1,000 in instalments and $583 in interest. That means if the State, and not the OPS company, borrows, you're left with 422 kroner. More, that's 42 pst. extra route during the construction period. Then it's so simple that if the project costs $8 billion. kr, becomes 42 pst. 3.36 B.C.E. kr. No matter how you turn it around, private financing is more expensive and more expensive, and price differences can be significant when you do it like that. With all due respect – these companies are not some Mother Teresa who has intended to roll out the road and track free of charge for the state. These are private companies in a good capitalist spirit – which I am even in favour of – and who want to make money. It is also the case that these companies receive loans from the European Investment Bank and the Nordic Investment Bank, which lend 75 pst. of what they need. I have understood that these are state-owned banks – they're not commercial or fund – that lend money to private-owned OPS companies, who then make a strike before lending them to the state again. This might have been a lot of numbers and a little bit of difficulty, but it's this that's the facts. I'd like to tell the local representative that we don't want to be immature. We do not want any of this, but we want to get the most out of the money. And when we don't vote for what is proposed today on road companies and other things, it's because we don't know what to vote for. If we had known what we were going to get, we could actually have gone in and made an assessment of what we were going to vote for. I find it quite irresponsible – with the information we have received from the Council of State – that a majority in this Chamber can only say ‘go’ for something that lacks so many answers to what this will look like in the end. The working party will have a rational, efficient development of road and track. We can help ourselves to think about new things, but we don't like to raise money for people. We should put that money in the way – and not least expand the path.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5194	I had not intended to extend the debate yet, but there were so many kicks in the East and West that I had to take the floor for another post. It is interesting when hearing must be as selective as I have registered. OPS is so much, and I have repeatedly, at least in two articles, said that the practical way to implement this with development contracts is the Centre Party for. Do I have to say it again? This is the Center Party for. That's the method of funding that we're questioning, because the evaluation has shown that it's going to be more expensive. In the case of road companies and interest-rate compensation schemes for toll loans, we have not received sufficient information to take a real position on what is there. It must be a requirement that we have the opportunity to know what to decide, otherwise at least you are not smart. Finally, the conclusion is that the Centre Party will have the most possible path, the most possible path and other infrastructure built as quickly as possible and in a smart way and a cheap way. That's what's our point. Give us the information you have about both the road company and the toll bit, and we'll answer if we think it's a smart way to do it. But we don't do it until we actually know what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5205	I took the word to a brief remark to Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. He asked about how the "Decision" had been taken. It was withdrawn from the previous government in December 2012. Then it was decided that it was much more rational to build the connection south of Ski than to do it in a tunnel that was already quite expensive. So it was the previous government that made that choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5210	I waited to take the floor, because I was excited if the minister would say anything more tonight. We'll see if we get any answer. First of all, most people, at least in advertising, take tears in the morning. Now it may seem that someone has put in a little bit of Møller's tear in the evening. Then I think not least of the Progress Party and of my colleague in the committee, Roy Steffensen. Because in his attempt to explain and tell history in his own way, and not least in the criticism of the Workers' Party – that there was infallibility when it came to new policies – I actually think what he was going to do first was to read what kind of case we have to deal with today. It's a matter where we're not going to add new things. We will decide on the appropriations. We're going to decide on matters that have been dealt with earlier, and we're going to adjust them so they get on, and then there's some briefing we're going to decide on, and that's where we're going to be on most with the exception of one important principle. There are also people who are trying to tell a story that the Workers' Party is standing by the old and is not involved in anything new. That's not true either. We've tried -- there's someone who's a little heavy-taught, but we've tried as best we can -- and they should also have got it with them, because we've just had a case in Stortinget where we're dealing with the new way we're going to build roads, road development contracts, which are at OPS, but without the funding in itself. I have to say that I am a little uncertain now, both in the Advancement Party and the Right, whether that is what they mean. It can sound like this when they're standing here talking, that it's really not traditional OPS and the way we've done it before, which they're going to build on, but the new way. The reason why we want to change that is because we just realized that there wasn't any good way to do it. That was a good way to build on, but there was no good way to finance it. If no one's got it, they've slept an hour, even in the last moment you're also trying to play on in terms of ideology – flight safety. Yes, there is no ideological curvature from the Workers' Party either one way or another, but we are really concerned with aviation safety. That's why we don't want to get involved with something that makes us feel worse about aviation safety in Norway. That is why we say that we have to spend time on it, and then I hope and expect that I will receive a reply from the Minister on whether it is such that they have already concluded – as they write in their government statement – or whether it is such that the Stortinget and the Committee can decide on a matter relating to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5225	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5239	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5248	I have to admit that this is a matter for which it has been a bit strange to be the case rapporteur, but I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a proper and good treatment. The discussion about data storage rules and the principal aspects of it is both interesting and important. The challenge is that this proposal for a representative is about stopping the implementation of a directive that the Court of Justice of the European Union has known to be invalid and, as such, no longer exists. It would therefore be beneficial for the assessment of the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the implications for Norwegian data storage rules to be debated when the government submits its assessment to the Stortinget. I believe that this is what the Committee has agreed to by means of this proposal for a representative. On 8 April this year, the European Court of Justice delivered its judgment: EU Directive 2006/24 EC, known as the Data Storage Directive, was declared invalid. This means that the directive was repealed and that it is not binding on the Member States, nor can it be implemented in Norwegian law. On 11 April, Prime Minister Erna Solberg sent a letter to the Stortinget stating that the government will not propose a cost-sharing model in the Spring 2014 session, as announced in the State Budget for 2014, and will review the EU judgment to see if there is a need to make changes to the data storage rules from April 2011. The Prime Minister stated that the government would return to the Stortinget case in an appropriate way. In addition, the issue has been raised in Stortinget through written questions, both to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice, and explained in an opinion on this draft representative from the Minister of Transport. The discussion on the Data Storage Directive and the rules on data retention in Norway is, of course, marked by the fact that there are difficult balances between privacy on the one hand and effective measures to combat crime on the other. Therefore, the Norwegian rules adopted in 2011 did not take advantage of the whole scope of action provided for by the Data Storage Directive. In particular, the retention period is set at six months, which is the minimum limit of the Directive, followed by a deletion obligation in Norway. More stringent storage security requirements have been imposed, with encryption and closed storage, and there are stricter data disclosure requirements, with legal requirements. As I see it, most people in this room recognize that we need rules for data storage, and that they should be legalised. When there is no longer an EU directive that sets data storage guidelines, it is not in itself an argument for accepting a legal space. On the contrary, this makes clear the need for national legislation in this area. Regardless of approach and principle, it will be clear that we now have a good basis for assessing the impact of the EU judgment, as the government suggests. We will also have sufficient knowledge to assess the need to make changes to the data storage rules from April 2011. I started out that this is a special matter to be the case rapporteur for. The adoption of a decision to stop the implementation of the Data Storage Directive is completely unnecessary. The directive is known to be invalid and no longer exists as such. Similarly, there is no reason to spend a lot of time debating just that. The debate on the Norwegian legislation on data storage and the consequences of the EU judgment, on the other hand, is important, and I look forward to that debate when the government presents its assessments to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5267	I promise I won't take any more calculations, and if the voice holds, I'll be able to take the whole article too! The digitalisation of society is accelerating, and increasing digitisation has given us many new challenges and issues in terms of privacy and monitoring, as the rapporteur also said. At the same time, digital tracks can also constitute important evidence in serious criminal matters and can prevent the execution of crime and terrorism. Examples of criminal cases here in Norway where traffic data have been important — or actually crucial — evidence are the NOKAS case, the Orderud killings and the robberies of the painting ‘Scry’. It was also in the context of combating serious crime and terrorism that the EU Data Storage Directive was introduced. Now this directive is no longer in force, as the rapporteur said. The European Court of Justice ruled in a judgment that the Directive is invalid because it infringes fundamental rights relating to privacy and the protection of personal data. It is then important to add that in the Norwegian decision we made provision for a much stricter regulation of the privacy of the directive than the legislation that has been assessed in the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. We chose a minimum storage time of six months and introduced deletion after six months. In addition, strict requirements were adopted for telecommunications operators with regard to storage security and erasure procedures. The Storting Decision also lays down strict rules on access to telecommunications data. Police cannot gain access without a court order, and there must be justified suspicion of crime with a penalty of more than four years in prison, for example. serious drug offences, serious crime, trafficking in human beings, terrorist acts and murders. The proposal for a representative we are discussing now makes a proposal that the government stop Norwegian implementation of the Data Storage Directive. As the rapporteur said, the proposal is really superfluous, all the time we are not going to implement it. However, the government has announced that it will go thoroughly through the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, to see if there is a need to make changes to the Norwegian legislation on data storage from 2011. It is also announced that the government will return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner with the matter, and the Workers' Party looks forward to the government's conclusions in this area. Because there is no doubt that there is a need for legal regulation for data storage. Here we are faced with important fundamental balances between privacy considerations and the protection of general social security. The telecommunications companies are storing traffic data today in order to be able to bill their customers. We need a clear code for the safe storage of data traffic and secure procedures for eradicating this. To what extent does any overview show that this actually works properly at present? We can't have it so it's random how this kind of sensitive information is stored and what degree of security it is around it. Today’s legislation in Norway on storage, storage and disposal in the so-called ecosystem law is far from reassuring, not least for privacy reasons. There is a need for better regulation on how to store these data so that they do not deviate. They need to be regulated by whom to access them and under what conditions – not least when to delete them. The job remains, even if the Data Storage Directive is now gone. The starting point for the Data Storage Directive was that of combating and clarifying serious crime and terrorism. The Labour Party believes that it is important that the PST and the police have all the necessary tools to do this, because the fact that the police have access to telecommunications data under judicial control is important for the protection of public security. No one shall be able to access your and my digital tracks without a suspicion of serious crime and a confession from the court. Privacy needs to be safeguarded through strict access requirements while at the same time safeguarding our common security and preparedness. I think it is responsible that the government is now going through the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and is looking at the need to make changes to the Norwegian data storage legislation. We look forward to the conclusion and thank the rapporteur, the representative of the place, for a very good way to work the matter out in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5295	If we first start from the text of the proposal itself in the proposal for a stop in the Norwegian implementation of the Data Storage Directive, this debate really becomes superfluous, as by definition there is no longer a data storage directive. The decision of the European Court of Justice was taken on 9 April 2014 and the Data Storage Directive became invalid – it does not exist and therefore cannot be implemented, further developed, worked on, etc. What will come from the EU, on the other hand, is something quite different. In this case, the debate itself should focus on the extent to which the government should reverse or amend adopted legislative changes pending the implementation of the previous data storage directive. I do not hide the fact that the Progress Party voted against the Data Storage Directive when it was dealt with in 2011, and I also record that our objections and arguments against the implementation of the Directive were supported by the European Court of Justice. When the time comes for us at Stortinget to have a new case of data storage, we will take the debate, with new arguments and new considerations – not now, as I believe several parties do. I would like to quote again the Council of State from the letter to the Committee: ‘The directive no longer exists.’ So far, we see that the government will assess the various aspects of adopted changes and will come back to us in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5311	The debate on the Data Storage Directive was long and tough in its time, and it went across the blocks of Norwegian policy. The majority of the population, consisting of the Right Party and the Workers' Party, supported it, while the rest of the Stortinget was opposed. The Christian People's Party said no, because we say yes to a society without unnecessary and unjust surveillance. From our point of view, it was therefore a joyous day for the European Court of Justice to declare the proposed data storage directive invalid, which means that the directive is cancelled. We note that the Prime Minister, in his own letter to the Presidency, states that one will go through the judgment thoroughly to see if there is a need to make changes and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way. The European Court of Justice has the background to its judgment – I think we should note that – characterised the Directive as: ‘a very extensive and particularly serious interference with the fundamental right to respect for privacy and to the protection of personal data, without this intervention being limited to what is necessary’. [[...]] With such a clear characteristic, ‘a postponement to see whether there is a need to make changes to the Norwegian legislation’, as stated in the Prime Minister’s presentation to the Presidentship of the Stortinge, is not sufficient for the Christian People’s Party. We have a clear expectation that the decision of the European Court of Justice will have implications for the content of the national legislation and for the changes made to the Criminal Procedures Act and the Econom Act. Storage of the type required by the Data Storage Directive poses a threat to the privacy of Norwegian citizens and violates important rule of law. So there can always be good and legitimate reasons to take action in this field. Let's admit that. But the small steps, if we're not aware of the developments we're going into, could lead us into a comprehensive surveillance society. The arguments for introducing stricter controls can be good and strong. And yes, consideration must always be weighed against each other. But we must never take our freedom and our fundamental rights for granted. One of them is that society shouldn't be monitoring us for no reason. So now we have the European Court of Justice's assessment of the directive. It's ready. The criticism from the Court of Justice is that the directive covers all types of traffic data and all citizens. As the directive is designed, people will feel that their privacy is actually under constant surveillance, according to the judges. The Directive intervenes in this delicate balance between the individual and the state at the expense of the individual's privacy. I hope the government does not want to get on the wrong side in this type of question. The information society poses new challenges and the police must be allowed to take the necessary measures to detect and prevent crime. However, we must not accept methods that affect the privacy and freedom of innocent people. Democratic States should refrain from the type of totalitarian instruments. The government, and especially the Right, which, in our opinion, was on the wrong side in 2011, now has to take this on board, namely that a new balance point has to be found when considering each other. We need tools to fight crime – we agree – while monitoring needs to be limited. The right went too far in the direction of monitoring in 2011 when the Directive was accepted. Now we see that clearly. A new line must then be drawn, and it is now the responsibility of the government to develop relevant instruments to combat crime, which can at the same time safeguard the dignity and integrity of citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5335	I think I'm going to trust the representatives of Storting that it's rarely the Senter Party is very pleased with the judges in the European Court of Justice, but this time we were very pleased with it. Both the scope and the type of storage go far beyond what we believe the privacy protection should provide for Norwegian citizens. We opposed the implementation of the directive in 2011 with the premises that were in place. We expect that the objections now supported by the Court of Justice of the European Union to the extent to which this has been achieved in monitoring ordinary citizens will be taken care of in the case we get to the Stortinget. We expect the government to go critically through the changes adopted in the Criminal Procedures Act, the Econom Act and other similar laws and regulations, which ensure a good balance between privacy and what is necessary to combat crime. I'll finish here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5342	The Minister of Transport's letter to the Committee was very good to read. ‘The directive no longer exists’ it says. That is good, and that is why we are not proposing to stop the implementation of the directive. There is no point in stopping a directive that does not exist. Unfortunately, the law houses adopted by the Stortinget by 89 votes to 80 still exist. The Prime Minister has promised to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner. The left expects the government to go through the decisions critically and to limit the interference with privacy that the majority of population has done in the past. Both because Iceland has not accepted the Directive as part of the EEA Agreement and because the funding solutions have not been in place, the decisions have not yet entered into force – fortunately. The European Court of Justice has declared that the Directive is ‘a very extensive and particularly serious interference with the fundamental right to respect for privacy and to the protection of personal data, without this intervention being limited to what is necessary’. This opinion can be said to relate not only to the Directive as a whole, but also to the amendments made to the Right and to the Workers' Party to introduce on 4 April 20l1. That is why it does not seem to the Left that the directive no longer exists. The policy changes that have been made with the intention of introducing the Directive also need to be amended, as is the case in other countries. The Minister for Transport and his party joined forces with the Left when the Data Storage Directive was introduced. It was and I am very pleased. I hope we can continue to stand together. The opposition to the Data Storage Directive was a broad alliance, from SV to the Progress Party. That alliance shows how important this question was, and what parties are not rooted in defending the state of office of the times. I want a constructive dialogue with the Minister of Transport to help strengthen the privacy of Norway and change the legislation, so that not every citizen should be monitored by the State just because they are citizens of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5355	The European Court of Justice, in this case, is pleased to highlight the debate on privacy, as a fundamental right for people. Once the European Court of Justice has declared that the Data Storage Directive is ‘a very extensive and particularly serious interference with the fundamental right to respect for privacy and to the protection of personal data, without that concept being limited to what is necessary’, there is reason to listen. The fact that the Data Storage Directive is now being stopped in Norway is a great victory for privacy and people's freedom. This should also have implications for the Norwegian data storage legislation. When the government now says that we are going to create a new legislation on data storage, they have to take the lessons from the premises and judgements of the European Court of Justice. I am concerned that Norwegian citizens are increasingly being monitored. This affects how we live our lives. Knowing that someone sees it as a doer affects how you act. Monitoring challenges the foundation of our democracy: freedom of expression and trust between peoples. With massive storage of data about all of us, an important legal principle is reversed. The starting point is no longer that we're innocent until the opposite is proven; instead, we're all under suspicion. There is also a great chance that this type of data can be misused and go into the wrong hands. That is why it is so important for me and for SV that we keep watching, so that we do not always open up more and more monitoring without it being strictly necessary. In the fight against terrorism, we risk weakening the values we say we fight to preserve. The willingness to exchange freedom for security has become alarming, both in European countries and in the United States. Terrorist laws that weaken important rule of law, unacceptable treatment of prisoners of war and widespread surveillance are different parts of the same picture. If it actually makes us safer, an open question is when we see developments in the Middle East, for example. The Data Storage Directive is an example of a directive that opens up too far to sacrifice the freedom of individuals for a sense of security. Eventually, it was also found that the Data Storage Directive was a bad tool to prevent crime. It has been quite daunting to see how much of the freedom of some politicians have been willing to sacrifice in order to put in place a little effective action against crime from the EU. We cannot have legislation that does not take people's right to freedom and privacy seriously. I therefore call on the government to look closely at the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and listen to the strong arguments against the directive when they look at the Norwegian legislation on data storage – because we have to take people's freedom seriously. We cannot let fear destroy any of the finest things we have: trust in people and among people, belief in freedom of expression and the principle that everyone is innocent to the opposite is proven.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5374	The size decided in April 2011 to implement the EU Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. It was a controversial matter. It was split in the previous government when it was presented and adopted, and it was split in that opposition. The rules never came into force. The European Court of Justice came to the conclusion on 8 April this year that the Data Storage Directive was invalid from the date of its entry into force. The judgment also introduces our future rules on data storage. In this way, it has already been concluded in terms of the very proposal that we have to deal with today. The fight against serious crime is important but cannot be carried out in the manner provided by the Data Storage Directive. The Data Storage Directive as proposed and adopted went too far at the expense of privacy and the protection of personal data. There is no need for a decision to stop implementation since the Directive no longer exists. However, the main purpose of the Data Storage Directive was to harmonise the provisions of the Member States on data storage, and I think it is important that Norway has an interest in having good cooperation with our neighbouring countries on the storage of this type of data – not least in order to protect our citizens and their rights. These are challenging and complex issues, for there is no doubt that the objective is good, namely to combat crime, or to solve crime when it has happened. At the same time, it is important that this is well balanced towards precisely privacy considerations. We are closely monitoring how the EU and Europe continue to deal with this. One must also ensure that when one comes with other instruments for the police, privacy considerations must be well taken into account, while taking into account technological developments. Much of the data traffic that led to this was leading when the Data Storage Directive was first developed, is now relatively out of date. Much of today's communication is done on Facebook and the type of media, which the Data Storage Directive did not hit to a great extent. We need to look at how we can provide good tools to the police, while ensuring privacy in a better way than the Data Storage Directive did. I don't think we should be hasty. We work on this in the government and will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way. But, of course, we are also following the debate that is taking place between the big parties, and we are seeing the points of view that emerge there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5387	Norway is a honey pot for organized criminals. Norway has no help in dealing with offenders against children on the Internet. If a drug trafficker had today crossed the border with Sweden with 1 kg of heroin in the car, the police would have no clues to follow – because we have not implemented the Data Storage Directive, at least if we were to believe what was said by the adherents of the directive, including the police, during the debate prior to the decision. I take the floor because I am still quite upset about the arguments used in the debate. The opponents of the Directive were called privacy extremists by representatives in this Chamber because they believed that the continuous mass storage of all communications data between all citizens of Norway – in case of criminal activity – is contrary to the basic principles of a liberal legal state. Well, the European Court of Justice gave the extremists the right. I did not take the floor to hound, but to remember that fundamental democratic rights are becoming increasingly less and less lost in war, but voted away with good intentions through majority decisions in national parliaments. Security and freedom are two values that challenge each other. But for me, freedom is not the ultimate point of a liberal state of law, but the very core. Indeed, security is not an independent objective in a state of law, but only a means of ensuring the greatest possible civil liberties. If you turn this around and make security the main goal, then first you undermine the freedoms and then the security itself. Of course, police instruments to investigate terrorism and serious crime should be effective. But these must still be proportional to the threat picture and not undermine the liberal democracy that they are to protect. This directive fell upon the Court of Justice of the European Union. In addition, reports from the EU have established that the Directive has not led to further clarifications of serious, organised crime or terrorism. But here it may be useful to recall that the Norwegian police would use the directive, which was the result of the terrorist acts in New York, London and Madrid, to go even after filers and network mobs. I have been to a very good meeting with the Prime Minister today about being hot against women in public. I welcome all the good suggestions, but even I don't want to use terrorist legislation to go after children who bully other children, or people who illegally share music online. Because of the prestige that was attached to the DLD debate, we have lost several years of constructive debate on what means we actually want to give the police, for example. access to store IP addresses for more than 21 days. This is not linked to the directive, but something that can be opened up – if the government wants to. I support, of course, the committee's position on the decision – to attach the proposal to the protocol. The directive no longer exists, fortunately. We can never regulate ourselves away from any risk of serious crime in an open and free society, but in the attempt to do so quickly, we can regulate ourselves away from democracy as a form of society – it has happened before. However, we who opposed the directive wanted a constructive debate on the instruments of the police. Maybe we can get to that now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5407	It is a wise and comprehensive assessment that the government has made in this matter. I also think there are good assessments that have been made in the comments of an overall committee, which proposes to attach the matter to the Minutes, pending a forthcoming debate. When, for my part, I asked for the floor, it was to make my expectations clear to that debate. The debate is absolutely necessary – we have to take it. We need to balance privacy considerations against the need for investigation tools in order to combat crime. I hope that the debate on this topic that comes to this Chamber will not be a polarized debate, as we experienced the last time. It did not contribute to anything good for any matters, I would say, because one was stuck in a position and was not very responsive to the arguments of the counterparty. It was about both sides of the debate – I admit it. I belonged to those who voted in favour of the implementation of the DLD. We will debate privacy while debating the needs of the police in order to combat both traditional crime and the new crime – if we can call it it – that is under rapid development. I have to say that I trust the police when they say that there is hardly a serious criminal case today where digital tracks are not being used with great utility. But there's also another type of crime. It is the crime committed in the digital space. How are we going to meet it without having a balanced approach to data storage and the availability of digital tracks in retrospect? Then I think about ID thefts, digital scams and all the way to the extreme, which are spying on businesses, businesses and nation states. This is the need to discuss in a balanced way, I meet it. I commend the Committee for presenting a balanced position and a good conclusion so far, and I also look forward to an important work and the results of it by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5418	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5432	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5441	We are now going to consider the representative proposal from the workers' party representatives to amend Section 27 of the Road Code, so that tolls can also be used for the necessary external emergency measures. I would like to commend the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on an important topic. Tunnel safety has been seen to be an ongoing theme, and there is a need to make assessments of how we ensure preparedness in a good way. There are many different reasons for this, but unfortunately there have been accidents in recent years that have put the case on the case map. During the committee's discussion, we have obtained answers from the Council of State on how the law works today, and what is inside it. The short version of it is that for the development of new projects financed by tolls, tolls can also be used for emergency measures, as referred to in the proposal here. In the case of tunnels already completed and in operation, the current system is such that the financing of repairs, possibly additional fire service emergency equipment, is to be paid by tunnel owners and it is the Fire and Explosion Protection Act that regulates who is responsible for the various technical and organisational measures for fire safety of road tunnels. A distinction is made between those who are to be built and who are toll-financed and those who are already in service and for whom a financial facility has been adopted. That is precisely the distinction which is also a little bit of the distinction in the Committee's work on the proposal. The intention is good. What may be a challenge is that where there is already an agreed financing facility, where it is already in operation, it is necessary to open up a changed gap for the tolls in order to be able to finance an additional emergency response. If there is a new case, a new project, it may be within the scope of the decision taken in the specific case. What some of the batches have pointed out is that there may be a need for further clarification in the Road Law in relation to precisely the tunnels to be built, that you specify that there is actually room for it. In addition, the Labour Party has argued in its arguments, comments and proposals that it should also apply to projects already in operation. The right-hand side and the front-hand side have a note pointing to reinforced allocations for tunnels. In addition to that, I, as the rapporteur, have argued for the comments made by the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Left in terms of the need for clarification, and that it is important that the Council of State looks at the needs for securing the tunnels that are already financed, started and operated. But, as I said, the Labour Party is promoting proposals for strengthening that part too. I then explained the matter and thank the Committee for a quick and good discussion of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5456	This matter is about tunnel safety, but I will open up asking if anyone can soon take responsibility. Is there any implementing force to cut through what appears to be a more and more serious and sad parody in terms of the ability to find a good solution? Let me therefore recapitulate a little about why we in the Workers' Party have proposed that tolls should also be used for necessary preparedness measures, including external preparedness measures such as: a fire truck. 3 June 2011 a wagon train burned inside the Oslofjord tunnel. It was one of two fires this year. The Fire Service in Søndre Follo then revised the risk and vulnerability analysis because they thought the existing one was not good enough. This resulted in an order for the acquisition of a fire engine with an increased extinguishing capacity and three evacuation packages — a cost of approximately 6 million. kr. The directive was contested by the State Road Administration as a tunnel owner, who has been supported by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB. In October 2013 came the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It confirms the content of Søndre Follo Firevesen's analysis of inadequacy and preparedness in the tunnel. The Disaster Commission recommends that the State Road Service, together with the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness and the Fire Service, follow up and dimension the rescue and fire-fighting operations according to the actual fire effects and the design of the specific tunnel. The fire department has done its part of the job, but has not yet been listened to by either tunnel owners or general fire protection authorities. Later, in the Workers' Party, and in particular my associate, Lise Christoffersen, we tried to follow up this case to see if a reasonable solution can be found. There has been an inter-pelling debate in which the Minister of Justice was disclaiming liability. Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen polemised in the newspapers that the Workers' Party wants to break the law because we pointed out that the collection of tolls on the route for 1-3 weeks could have financed the entire acquisition of fire trucks with increased extinguishing capacity and the three evacuation packages. Of course, the Labour Party does not want to break the law, as the Minister for Transport claims. The working party wishes to contribute to finding solutions that can strengthen tunnel safety throughout Norway. That is exactly why we took the initiative of the representative that Section 27 of the Road Code had to be amended so that tolls could also be used for external emergency measures. We were therefore amazed when we saw the Council's reply that tolls under Section 27 of the Road Act can already be used for emergency equipment – also for fire services in the same line as the financing of the entire project in the case of new buildings. So this letter came after Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen's attempt to hang us out to break the law. Yeah, yeah. Great men can be wrong, and the greatest admit it as well. Nevertheless, the Minister for Transport still clarifies that, for tunnels completed and in operation, the current system is that repairs and, where appropriate, additional fire service emergency equipment are paid by tunnel owners and regulated by the Fire and Explosion Protection Act. Then we are back to the core of the matter, namely that various initiatives to improve safety and preparedness in the Oslo Earth Tunnel have not provided a solution. There is a need for a change in the law – in this specific case for the acquisition of a fire engine with increased extinguishing capacity and three evacuation packages. There are probably a lot of good explanations as to why we haven't succeeded, unlike legislation, cross-cutting responsibilities and etat interests are probably some of the reasons why we haven't found good solutions so far. We in the Workers' Party therefore want to maintain our proposal, but with further clarification that for tunnels that are completed and in operation and still have toll collection, tolls can be used for emergency upgrades, including external emergency measures. I am promoting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5475	The representative of Ingvild Kjerkol has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5478	In this case, the Labour Party has taken the initiative to amend Section 27 of the Road Law in order to allow the use of tolls to be extended to emergency measures. This is what we are on the right-hand side of the equation. However, the proposal actually addresses two issues. One is the possibility of using tolls for emergency measures, and the other is the need for additional fire protection in the Oslo Earth Tunnel and other special accident routes. In the latter case, there is enough agreement that the alert should be given to those who are going to travel on the road. In this context, the government has already strengthened the 2014 budget by several hundred million in addition to what the previous government did in its draft budget, and efforts are now being made to strengthen the security of tunnels in several places around the country. So to the Workers' Party's proposal to change road laws, so that tolls can now be used for emergency measures: In the Right we see that tolls today are a significant and fundamental contribution to today's road construction organisation, and that that part was increasing under the previous government. But we consider it so that user payments are managed with respect for original intent. Tolls shall primarily be used for road planning, construction, repair, maintenance and operation. Right-wing believes that preparedness is a social responsibility that should not be financed by increased tolls. Where should a limit be set for which users to pay? Earlier in the debate today, the Labour Party was very concerned about the increased use of buying roads on credit. But I want to remind you that this is also. We see that we have a job to do in securing a more efficient collection and management of the user's money and getting more out of every penny, rather than charging for even more. Work has been started on the reorganisation of the toll sector in Norway. The basis for this reform, which was there after the red-green government, has not been good enough, and there is reason to believe that the proposed measures there would not have contributed to increasing efficiency. And we didn't get any more way for the money. The tolling sector needs better incentives to make it more effective. We have obligations to ensure that the right grip is now done, so that it can be a cost-effective collection of the caristics' money. In the Right, we want to do our part to avoid increasing the users' share of Norwegian road projects, as the Labour Party here suggests. At the same time, we're going to help get more out of every single penny, so that we can also strengthen tunnel preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5497	I have a comment for the last speaker. I think the first driver who runs in tunnels that are uncertain today is willing to pay for, is that the tunnels they run in are safe. So I'm not worried about the willingness to pay or the understanding among drivers to be part of that kind of fissure layer. However, I would just like to stress that there is not a general toll financing for all maintenance of roads or any maintenance of standby that is addressed in this matter by the Workers' Party's proposers. In order to ensure that the range of measures in which society considers it necessary to invest is open, it should be possible to finance them by means of toll payments. I think that the Labour Party has the best arguments for this, and since SV is not represented in the Committee, I would just say that on the SV side we support the proposal of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5506	The representative proposal takes up an important aspect of Norwegian road construction. We are a country with great challenges in terms of topography and difficult trajectories. Although the proposal for a representative is closely linked to the challenges in the Oslo Tunnel, the protection of tunnels across the country is an important area for this government. Not only have several hundred million dollars been allocated to tunnel safety in the 2014 budget, but the government also has a strong focus on ICT used in the road sector, which will again bring benefits in terms of early warning prior to tunnel entry, control of the fan system in case of fire, coverage of communication equipment inside the tunnel, etc. The fact that Section 27 of the Tolls Act provides for tolls to be used to finance emergency equipment also for the fire service, in line with the financing of the entire project, is valid only when the project is a toll-funded project. That is, tunnels built and operating, such as the Oslofjord tunnel, will not be covered by this system. So what is the country of opportunity? It becomes too easy to take the toll off at any time to solve other challenges. It is important for us to make visible where the responsibility lies, which in this case is such that DSB can oblige the owners of the tunnels to establish its own fire and accident preparedness or to cost and maintain a necessary upgrade of the municipal fire service. Who pays what, and to what extent, it will be the DSB that decides, if the municipalities and the Vegvessen don't agree. And then we might rather look at the cost aspect of those municipalities that have bigger challenges in terms of many tunnels or tunnels with large traffic volumes in their midst. The need-to-be oversight of the Tunnel Safety Regulation and the initiation of a thorough inspection every six years at the latest help to strengthen the safety of our tunnels. Now that more ICT is in place and the Road Directorate is getting more pressure on regular controls, we are on the way to better tunnel safety. Guards us completely, we can never. There are too many factors that play a role when accidents occur, but we can, and we should, minimize and close down the risks as best we can. There the government has cross-political grounding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5519	This is a very important topic, and I'm glad that it's going to be the theme in Stortinget now, although it was rejected under the previous government in Stortinget just a year ago. Tunnel safety is one of the things that this government prioritised high in the budget for the current year. There was a significant increase, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party in Stortinget, and that in itself shows that we are not just talking about tunnel safety, but we are prioritizing and implementing it as well. This is a slightly special case because the issue has been known for a long time. It was promoted by the Party in opposition. The working party, which then ruled, chose not to touch it for eight years, but once they are in opposition, they take it up in the Stortinget. It actually shows that it was healthy to get a government change, so that someone can see the issues from the outside and not just sit and say no. When it was called for action on this speaker's chair from the Workers' Party, it was a little strange, considering that one chose not to use it then a boss himself. Today's government is already looking at this issue. Thus, we do not lack the power to act, but I think we should give ourselves time to do so in a proper way. There's been several investigations that we're now looking at. In order to clarify the expected level of emergency in tunnels, a report on fire preparedness grants has recently been prepared. That working group consisted of representatives from the Road Administration, the DSB and the Fire Service. That's the report we're looking at. The second is that the Ministry of Justice in these days evaluates a report from a working group that has looked into the organisation and use of the fire and rescue services. It will also be the basis for the work we do. It's not supposed to be in action, but I think you should do it properly. In addition – as a third moment – we are working on a reform on the toll sector. Then it's natural that these things are assessed in there. But given that we have discussed and received criticism from the Workers' Party earlier today that a buyer buys a road on credit, it is a little strange that in this case one uses a road bill purchased on credit, and will increase the credit level even more – and in addition one buys a fire car instead of prioritising it over public budget. There is something that does not harmonize with the Labour Party's policy, either in the internal debate today or in comparison with their position less than a year ago. We're working on this, we're going to get back to Stortinget with a toll reform, and then this is going to be one of the things that are being evaluated in that context. So I just want to remind you that in the construction of infrastructure, including the tunnel, emergency equipment – also for the fire service – is being financed in the same way as the financing of the entire project. So initially, it's opening up to buy fire protection equipment. But this problem is that for tunnels that have been built, where one chose not to buy a fire truck at start-up, there has been no possibility in the law, as it has been interpreted, to buy the same fire car. It may seem unreasonable if the need is absolutely present, and therefore it is natural for us to discuss it. With regard to the Oslo Earth Tunnel, in concrete terms, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has assessed that the situation today is satisfactory following the improvements made in recent years, with escape routes, shelters and the kind of things. Then there'll probably be a different view of it, but the government department for this doesn't think it's necessary to buy a fire truck. In addition, one indicates that there is a fire engine nearby that may have part of the same characteristics, which has a few more minutes in driving time. We are following this situation carefully, and this situation could also change, depending on the growth of the number of cars running through the tunnel. We have tunnel safety as one of our very high priority areas. Therefore, we will ensure that tunnel safety is well maintained. But this is not the only tunnel we have to be aware of. A number of tunnels are being built and exist across the country, and it is not just on the national road network that this can be a problem. On the county road network there may be such a big problem. That's why it's important when we're working on the 2015 budget, that we not only comply with a tunnel regulations for highways, which have existed for a while, but that we also get it in place for county roads, which the previous government did not adopt during the time they ran, but which we are now working to get in place, because this is about security for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5550	I believe that both the Council of State and the undersigned appreciate that tunnel safety is getting more focus and also increased appropriations. Then I see that you have challenges with this particular distance, and it's more about cross-level responsibility, etc. It is true that an assessment of the appropriate body has been carried out here, a requirement has been set out to improve the safety of future events. But still nothing happens. I hear that you want to get back to this in a larger context – I respect it completely – within the remit of the Council of State. But what will the government do to solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5558	I just spent a few minutes telling you. I just have to remember the history. When we have been discussing this specific matter in Stortinget for years, Kjerkol's own party has said no, one does not want to do anything. This government says it wants to do something, we've started a job. Then I cannot understand the problem that was raised from Kjerkol, because what we called for in the previous period of opposition, we are now implementing in position. While the previous government didn't want to do anything, one is now very impatient after this government has to show results. It'll come, but it'll take some time. But we're at least on the go, as opposed to what the previous government put up to. So yes, we have more reports that we're now working on, we're running a toll reform, we've said we're positive about this. And then we work as hard as we can – as simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5565	The councils are descriptive in their answers, almost picturesque: they work hard, and that's implementation, and we're on the matter, and we're going to get back to it – but nothing concrete. Nevertheless, there is a distance when the Council of State describes the ability of the previous government to do something and their absence from concrete action. I only hear the same rule, I would say, if it is in parliamentary language, President, for which the Solvik-Olsen accuses the previous government. I'm going to be very concrete. Solvik-Olsen accused the Workers' Party of wanting to break the law, and then he later wrote a letter to the committee saying that this was possible within the law. How does the Council of State view this today? Is it still such that he believes the Workers' Party would have broken the law? Or does he accept the written letter he sent to the committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5572	I don't quite understand this. To take history first: when this topic was up in the last growing-up period, when the Workers' Party was running, the Workers' Party concluded that no, they would not do anything. They argued against doing something. Today's government has said that yes, we will do something, but I'm not saying that you can just pinch your fingers and everything is in place. It requires that you actually make changes to the legislation and that you review the reports and make the assessments. But we've said that we'll do that job. That it takes some time, shouldn't surprise the Workers' Party. But the Workers' Party would not do that job itself. There's a significant difference. Then I have in the letter I sent to the committee when it came to this matter, pointed out that when you build a tunnel, you can use future tolls to finance the fire truck. Once the tunnel is built, you can't do it. So this tunnel is built. Ergo can't use tolls to finance a new fire truck with today's law. Thus, the claim to Kjerkol is not correct, and the letter is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5579	I noticed that the Council of State said in its statement that the government department has assessed that there is no need for a fire truck like what we are talking about here, in the Oslofjord tunnel. Then I guess he means the directorate. But there are more professional bodies. Among other things, Søndre Follo Brannvesen has carried out a ROS analysis, which shows that there is a need, and they have received support from the Disarmament Commission, which says that the extinguishing capacity is too poor. When it is said that the fire service can borrow a fire truck from Back, the local fire service says it takes too much time, then it's too late. So I wonder: doesn't the Council of State trust the assessments that Søndre Follo Brannvesen has made of the safety of the tunnel?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5584	This is going to be a little surrealistic debate, because we're just listening to that advice. That's why we also say that we want a review of the law, because we want to change it. When we took up the same problem in the last growing-up period, just a year ago, in fact, the Workers' Party said no, they wouldn't look at this. Then the Workers' Party listened fully to the DSB and concluded that there was no need here. Therefore, there was no need to do anything about the law either. We have said that we look at the law and will strengthen it. We have strengthened tunnel safety through appropriations. We're talking about getting this in place for county roads as well. It's a big bet. It's a completely different approach to tunnel safety than what we saw from the previous government. Then it becomes a little strange to be accused of not taking the problem seriously, not listening to all the actors. And whoever asked chose not to listen to the actors that someone now thinks you should listen to. We're taking this seriously. We're gonna get things right. But it takes a little bit more time than just pinching your fingers, unfortunately. Therefore, a start should have been made on this work a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5595	You can wonder if you're actually taking tunnel safety seriously. Several times the Minister said in his speech that there was a commitment to tunnel safety, and he boasted that the appropriations had been increased. Yes, that's right, the appropriations were increased, with the support of us. But what's strange about the need for increased tunnel safety is what came to be revised. Then there was a suggestion to bring down another 250 million. kr for tunnel safety. The minister has had the money without having to use tolls for tunnel safety, if he wanted to. This means that the same money has been spent several times – first on the tunnel, out of the tunnel, and then on county roads. It's at best a creative accounting. My question is, is it that this money was not needed for tunnel safety?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5600	I just wanted to remind you that the Workers' Party will vote to reduce the appropriations for tunnel safety, which they are now criticising us for doing. When we propose the re-priority in the revised budget now, it is because we see that there are some projects that have a very long-term implementation horizon, on which we can now speed up progress, while there are some tunnel projects that we would not be able to undertake, but which could nevertheless be implemented very quickly and get fast results. It is therefore appropriate to make that re-prioritisation. But even after the re-priority in the revised budget, there will be more money for tunnel safety during this year than the previous government provided. We are thus stronger in economics. We have started working on the rest of the reports, which are now ready, we have started working on looking at the legislation. All that the previous government wouldn't do is we're doing. Then I ask for forgiveness because unfortunately it takes some time to implement things. But there's a difference between a government that says that this is what we want to start at, and a government that says that we don't want to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5609	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5614	Preparedness is about two things – at least: prevention and proper equipment when the accident is still out. Rescue teams must be able to rescue people without themselves being exposed to undue danger. Tunnels are a challenge. I myself have been the head of a local emergency board and heard our fire commander say that it may happen that it is irresponsible to send in crews. That was the train tunnel in Lier. I myself was responsible for the municipality's contribution when the bomb was snuck in Nybyen in Drammen. I have experienced for myself that great members of our fire service perished during rescue work in a tunnel fire. It has taught me how important it is to listen to the needs of the fire service that they have, after a thorough review of risk and vulnerability. Sdr. Follo Brannvesen updated his ROS analysis of the Oslo Earth Tunnel after the fires in 2011 and asked if necessary equipment. Later, the Harvari Commission has more than confirmed the origin of the fire service: today's extinguishing capacity is too low. The fire in the Gudvanga tunnel reminded us that this is going to happen again. The Fire Service's instructions have been rejected at a higher level. It's hard to understand. Equipment can be recovered from others, it is said, but the fire department says it will take too long. Whom, then, should we listen to? Buskerud Progress Party and Akershus Progress Party had as its major campaign case in 2013 to acquire a fire truck for the Oslofjord Tunnel immediately. Mr Busherud Arbeiderparti thought and now feels that the proposal is good. We have supported it, not only in words, but also by raising the matter here in Stortinget. Our surprise was great when the Progress Party, having become a government, no longer accepted the proposal. There is something that does not harmonize in the policy of the Progress Party, in order to use the Council of State's own words. In order to try to trick the matter into place, we therefore proposed to extend the toll collection period in the Oslofjord tunnel by 1 to 2 weeks. That's what's needed -- that would be enough. If someone had stood up outside the tunnel and asked people if they thought the bomb could stand a few more days to make sure that someone could save them on the day it really applied, I'm pretty sure what the answer would be. But it was contrary to the law, the Council of State could report – especially through the media, and in a slightly sarcastic way. But the law is man-made and can be re-created. That is why the Workers' Party is now promoting a proposal that makes it possible – there is no requirement – to use tolls for necessary preparedness. But once again, the Progress Party is opposed, which again is difficult to understand, but I see at least that the government parties this time extend a little when they say that they might consider the matter in connection with the reform work on the toll sector. We'll continue to travel the matter in different ways, so maybe we'll get it in place in the end – before it burns the next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5629	We have many tunnels in Norway, and many of these are long. One of the worst scenarios is fire in a vehicle train in these long tunnels. It's not at least a fireman's nightmare. As a fireman, you are prepared to do what you can to save both life and material. This applies, as I said, to many places in Norway, and it has not been given that you have a well-equipped fire department or have sufficient resources to provide the necessary equipment to build these tunnels — or where you have the tunnels today. A report issued in October 2013 was issued by the State's Committee on Transport following the fire in the Oslofjord tunnel. This study has identified five major safety concerns that have contributed to a deterioration in the systemic safety of the Oslo soil tunnel and that have led road users to be caught in the smoke. I want to quote two of these problems: ‘The safety level of the Oslofd tunnel through standby and safety equipment was not adequately adjusted to traffic growth and composition’.» And on the other hand, ‘The fire and rescue preparedness of the Oslofd tunnel was not dimensioned, equipped or organised in relation to what can be expected as regards the location and size of fires in the tunnel.’» The fire in the Oslo soil tunnel, and some later the fire in the Gudvanga tunnel, testifies to a catastrophic potential in heavy-duty vehicle fires in long one-way tunnels with subsequent smoke. In the light of this study, I am concerned that the fire risk in single-loop tunnels meets with priorities that only ensure a minimum level of safety. This also shows that, after the tunnel has been completed, needs may arise that require new safety measures. Today it is by building openings to use tolls to finance the strengthening of safety, also for the fire service. However, there is no opening to apply tolls to such measures on projects that are completed and in operation and that still have toll collection. It is clear that action should be taken in the future and the necessary means should be made available for the local fire services to be invested near those risk tunnels in the necessary equipment and trained to deal with such situations better than is the case today — both at the construction stage and if necessary at a later stage. I believe that, in the future, the costs have to be taken to a level above the minimum level of safety, so that equipment and training in the construction of such tunnels are satisfactory. In addition to this, it is necessary to have a system of renewal — and to be able to meet needs arising at a later stage. This can be done by voting in favour of the Workers' Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5667	I see that this is a general discussion about financing safety in tunnels after they are built. There is also a discussion especially about an event in the Oslofjord Tunnel in 2011. I know this in particular, because I represent the owners of the fire company in the half tunnel, Søndre Follo Brannvesen. It was referred to that in the special situation a fire truck had to be picked up and that the equipment was in Rygge. That doesn't mean it's completely correct, because it was in the neighboring municipality. However, due to poor interaction – in the note it is called cross-compliance, I almost want to say interest – we have now started an investigation work in which it is assessed to merge eleven municipalities' fire services in the area. The changes made after the fire have resulted in safety being at a very safe level now. I believe that the committee's recommendation is good, as it is in favour of further assessing this in the toll reform referred to by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5678	I'll be brief. My associate from Buskerud Lise Christoffersen pointed out that a fire car in the Oslofjord tunnel was one of the most important election campaigns of the Buskerud Progress Party. That's so far right, and I can assure you that we're still working for it, and that we're going to continue until there's a solution to this particular challenge. There are several people who have remembered that it is no more than 14 to 15 months since the red-greens actually voted down the proposals of the Progress Party to acquire such a fire truck. So it is good that the Workers' Party now wants to find a solution, but the use of tolls for this project is therefore contrary to the law, as the Council of State has pointed out. So readiness is not naturally covered by user funding, even if the law gives rise to it in new projects. The government is ambitious in finding a solution and will, of course, consider this in the context of the toll reform. So one just has to admit that some things take some time. It also did for the red-green ones, who couldn't find any solution to this question, even though one now gives an expression of being very dedicated to doing it. I can assure you that both the representatives of the Busherud Progress Party and our other staging representatives will follow closely that the Council of State will come up with a solution which, sooner or later – preferably before – will realize the long-awaited fire engine in the Oslo Earth Tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5691	There are some claims that have been repeated in this case, which I think deserve a comment. We have said this earlier: the Red-Green Government did not support the proposal put forward by the Progress Party in the previous period. The Labour Party did not support it in the Chamber either. I have said without hesitation that that proposal – I think it was proposal No. 15 in a case concerning the extension of tolls on Rv. 23 – went under our radar. Had we, representing the Buskerud Workers' Party, learned that the proposal was discussed in the Committee on Transport – where we also had no representatives – we had raised this matter internally with us, because we were not satisfied with the way it was handled in the previous period. When the Progress Party then took up the proposal again in connection with the election campaign, we immediately went out and made no attempt to hide that it was a matter that had gone under our radar. We said we gave the Advance Party full support, and we even tried to resolve the matter during the election campaign before the 2013 elections. We did not, but we got the party on gli, and we got internal support in the Labour Party that this was a sensible proposal to support. Then we had believed that the Progress Party would take the wave, hurried to re-propose the proposal and get our support. That's when we get a little surprised when we can't get the Progress Party to support our own proposal. The wording in the election campaign was, as I said, that it was almost scandalous that this had not been put in place, and that the Progress Party in the government had to be resolved immediately. That's what was said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5700	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5714	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of a member of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5723	«Only Hurtigruta goes», sings Halvdan Sivertsen, and when the Hurtigruten does not go – then there will be commitment! There are few things that involve as much as Hurtigruten's approach patterns along the coast between Bergen and Kirkenes – and in Stortinget! Today the matter is not primarily about Hurtigruten's approach pattern, although it has been claimed from some teams that there is a connection, which I will get closer to. At the heart of the matter is that in April, just over two years ago, the rapid transit ship MS ‘Polarly’ was supported by the rapid transit system in Mehamn, the so-called Nordky terminal. After this happened, another dock was slightly further into the port of Mehamn, the so-called Industrikaia, started a period before the Nordky terminal was again used at the time of the call. As of January this year, Hurtigruten has not called Mehamn at all. So I just want to establish, if there is any doubt: it is the Hurtigruten as the shipping company that has the overall responsibility for the operation of its ships, and it is the captains of the ships who are responsible for the day-to-day operation of the ships. There must be no doubt about that. At the same time, it must be such that the approach set out in the contract between the State and the Hurtigruten is followed. For those of us who have followed a little bit in this matter, and in the big debate that has taken place in Mehamn and in Finnmark and along the coast, it may seem that this – from Hurtigruten’s side – has been claimed that the stop at the call in Mehamn is due to safety assessments of all the captains of Hurtigruten, while the port authorities in Mehamn do this, all the time Hurtigruten for a period, or in fact for quite a long time, continued to call on Mehamn after the collapse in April 2012. The situation has been – as we have recorded – quite locked down. The proposer has therefore proposed that the government should instruct the Swedish Coastal Agency to make a professional assessment of the conditions of access in Mehamn, and also that the Coastal Agency should advise on what measures could be taken. It is generally considered to be a sensible proposal, but in correspondence with the Committee, the Minister for Transport has replied that this would be unfortunate, simply because it is not the responsibility of the Coastal Agency to assess berth and port conditions. It is port authorities and shipping companies that – everywhere – are responsible for looking at the status of quays around, and that is the matter of the Committee. There shall be no doubt whatsoever that the captain and the shipping company shall be responsible for the safety assessments related to navigation and manoeuvring. But I also have to say that the State buys services from Hurtigruten on the Bergen–Kirkenes route for very large sums, and then Hurtigruten also has to provide services in line with the contract and the requirements imposed by the State. The Committee therefore considered it necessary to establish that the agreed approach should be followed. Last Friday I was in Mehamn and met with the relevant authorities – the municipality, the port authorities, the county council. The Hurtigruten and the Coast Guard were also present. At that meeting it was informed that the fast route caia at the Nordkyn terminal will be completed in September. It is therefore gratifying to state that a unanimous committee now presupposes that the Hurtigruten should re-apply to Mehamn immediately after the Kaia have finished. I would like to thank Mr Ingebrichtsen, who has put the matter on the agenda. It now appears that the matter will be brought to a happy conclusion – finally – and it is therefore a unanimous committee behind today's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5743	As pointed out by the rapporteur, there is an overall committee which supports the comments made in the vote on Document 8:69 S for 2013-2014. There is also an overall committee which is concerned about the situation which has arisen and which is clear that the calls in Mehamn must be resumed as soon as the Kaia has been repaired. The representative, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, made a proposal that the Coastal Plant should be entrusted with a professional investigation of the access conditions in Mehamn. For our part, we are very sceptical about that, as it challenges the principle that it is the shipping company and the ship's captain who is responsible for the safe operation of the ships. By allowing a state body such as the Coastal Plant to enter and make professional assessments of the conditions of call and safety, we will challenge this principle and set up a system in which the shipping company and the ship's captain are tested in safety assessments. Such a system would be very unfortunate and lead to a powdering of responsibility – something that no one has earned. I also record that the proposer does not want a political override of the assessments made by the ship's captain, and that is good. That being said, we are very concerned about the situation that has arisen. The Hurtigruten and its captains consider that it is not safe to go to the dock until it has been repaired, while the local port authority is in a position to do so. The background for the doubt is that Hurtigruten periodically called the Kaia after the damage occurred, while the calls were subsequently completely cancelled. I understand the doubts that have arisen and will encourage the parties to engage in good dialogue. At the same time, it is important to stress that this does not affect the principle that the shipping company and the ship's captain are responsible for the safety of the ship. The country purchases services for large sums each year from Hurtigruten and it is assumed that the agreed call pattern will be followed. It is of great importance for the communities concerned, for the whole of the country and for the Hurtigruten as an important institution along the coast. Therefore, it is important to facilitate the maintenance of the call pattern and to manage any deviations. There is also a recommendation to examine the economic aspects of the agreement with Hurtigruten and whether such situations are adequately addressed in the agreement and, where appropriate, its consequences. We have clear expectations that the calls in Mehamn will be resumed when the Kaia is completed and looks forward to it being done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5758	I was going to say good evening, but I must say good night. When I saw the settings from the committee, there were two things I was thinking: One was that the committee had been flattening for Hurtigruten and Trygve Hegnar. The second was that the case-rapporteur had his skin louse far down his eyes and perhaps his earlobes over his ears when he was in Mehamn. But now, when I hear the case rapporteur, who has done a very good job and traveled up to Mehamn, tell me about the trip, both hear and know that the skin leopard has not been on his head – at least not over his eyes and ears. A few points: I support the Council of State's assessment when we have asked the Swedish Coastal Agency to assess the professional conditions of the entrance to Mehamn. It is beyond doubt for everyone that the skipper is on board a boat. This is the case – no one can move by – even in terms of safety. This isn't about it. I'm a skipper myself, and I learned this as a boy. That's the way it is. This is about using the government's body and organisation – in this case the Coastal Agency, which is very competent – to project the fairways and our sailing routes, both into and into the ports. This hall has spent a lot of money repairing ports for the larger ships that we build. Competence is in the Coast. Therefore, it is strange when the Council of State says that it could put pressure on the captain's assessment of safe navigation, and that it would also fall outside the responsibility of the Coastal Administration. And then we look the other way around, just with the explanation that I've given, that everyone in this room is aware of. It is also the case that the Kystsverk has the losers, a loosing service. They also have a high level of competence, both in terms of rentals and in terms of the ports themselves, because they are moving, and there is a separate selection for the different areas of navigation. When you raise doubts about this, as the citizens of Gamvik Municipality have done, we have to do something. The rapporteur says that this is a real relationship. The local government has also discussed this. The rapporteur is very concerned about this. The business is concerned about it. What are we going to do with that? Because we all know that this is a problem, and then we have to use the professional bodies and the agencies we have to get this to. It has never been a matter of reviewing the Captain's assessment of the entrances. But it is clear that we are afraid in the small places along the coast – there are several rapporteurs who say that – that it may not be economically interesting to get there. That's part of why people are so anxious about this, that you're afraid that this is a development. Now the matter will resolve itself by the fact that the Hurtigruten gets a new berth to go to. But it is also part of the story that former captain With in Hurtigruten thought that the berth that is at the heart of the Mehamn port was the best. That's why Gamvik's municipality ended up on the ROBEK list when it was expanded to Aker Seafoods. The Hurtigruten has called. Why can't you use it? There are several of us who know a little about the conditions, which stutter, because it has been used in the past. Finally, I would just like to say that I expect that we can maintain the proposal, because SV will vote in favour of the original proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5784	I get information that the proposal should have been submitted before noon. 20.30, so that's not how it can get to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5787	Let me first stress that the situation in Mehamn port is regrettable. It is foolish when the Hurtigruten has had it as a fixed port of call, and that you have not been able to call there for a period of time. This is a situation that has been going on since 2012. It's a long time. At the same time, it is like a worker repairing that port, and one aims to ensure that a normal call will be resumed, after I have been informed, from approx. August–September. It means that this case can approach a happy end – finally. Then you'll see if the concerns you've expressed are real, or whether this is actually a consequence of the port not being in the position it should have been. If the Hurtigruten starts to pick up the calls, there's no reason to doubt that the captain's decision that this was not safe enough is the real one. I note that a unanimous committee maintains the principle that it is the shipping company that has the overall responsibility for the safe operation of its ships and that it is the individual captain who is responsible for the safe and day-to-day operation of its ship. I would like to warn against the trends we have seen in several such cases now, that a beg government intervenes – in this matter quite concretely, but also when we were about to start looking at single railway stations through debate in Stortinget. I am pleased that the Committee on this matter agrees that there is no basis for asking the Swedish Coastal Agency to make a professional assessment of port conditions, which would be a review of the safety assessment carried out by Hurtigruten and the captains. In addition, it falls outside the responsibility of the Coastal Administration. Of course, I agree with the committee that the contract concluded with Hurtigruten obliges the company to provide the services that have been agreed upon. Consequently, the fast route is not free to choose to skip calls that have been agreed upon, at its own discretion. I would like to make it clear that it is precisely the safety assessment related to the port conditions with damaged berth, which is the basis for the ministry to have agreed, until the quay has been repaired, that the calls in Mehamn are omitted. In the meantime, Mehamn is served via the calls in Kjøllefjord. As soon as the repair of the quay in Mehamn has been completed, I assume that the calls will be resumed according to the agreed agreement. It is the port company in Mehamn that is responsible for the ongoing improvement of the quay in Mehamn and the progress of this work. I assume that the port company is in contact with Hurtigruten in this regard, for the purpose of planning for the resumption of calls, which should therefore be relatively close at hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5807	The special thing in Mehamn is that it's actually the Hurtigruten that destroyed the Kaia, which now makes the Hurtigruten can't call at the place. After Kaia was destroyed, Hurtigruten continued to call for quite a long time. So Hurtigruten said that it was not proper to call. Then it might be interesting to ask the question not to the minister, but to Hurtigruten: was it then irresponsible of Hurtigruten to continue calling at Mehamn? But that's not really the question. It's serious for a place like Mehamn that Hurtigruten might not be calling for 8-9 months. The agreement between the State and the Hurtigruten regulates the locations to be visited. So my question to the minister is simply: is it going to have any financial impact on Hurtigruten's compensation that a place like Mehamn hasn't had a fast route in so many months?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5814	Let me first say that I strongly doubt that the Hurtigruten has done this on purpose. Although they were the reason the port was destroyed, I think it goes in the accident account. I've talked to people who are loose, who say that often it's so that even if conditions are not ideal, the captain or the loser, if one is on board, would like to try to make things work according to the conditions that are. Therefore, there may be calls to berths that are not as good as they should have been for a period of time. Finally, it is said that the situation has evolved to the worse, or that there have been so many risk courses that could have gone wrong, that one chooses to stop calling. That's what I think happened in this case. As regards the financial framework for the Hurtigruten and the agreement with the State, we are following it up on an ongoing basis. There are several conflict areas that are now being discussed between the government and the Hurtigruten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5823	I am absolutely sure that Hurtigruten is not willing to cooperate with Kaia. We're not going to suggest anything else. Of course, it was an accident. But, as I said, the Hurtigruten continued to call, both at the end of the docks – the usual fast route caia – and at the end of the docks, which Ingebrichtsen described in very detail in his post. In the communication between the Committee and the State Councils in the matter, the Committee has also asked questions as to whether this would have an economic impact on Hurtigruten. The Ministry refers – and we understand that – to the provision in the contract relating to the provision on force majeure. We all realize that things can happen along the coast. But we are in the situation that it is Hurtigruten that was the cause of the accident – it was Hurtigruten himself that destroyed Kaia. So the question is simply: will the force majeure provision apply when it is Hurtigruten that has caused the damage in the specific case?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5831	I don't think it would be right of me, in the storeroom, to make those assessments. This is probably a lot more about fine light, which I think other people will be allowed to take care of. I will ensure that we safeguard both the interests of Mehamn and the interests of taxpayers in the best possible way in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5836	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5839	Good and predictable communication services are important irrespective of where you live in the country. This is a matter of an offer that suddenly just disappeared. I'm not going to repeat the whole story of why there was a case in Stortinget that the people in Mehamn one day in January were without a fast route call. It's not hard to understand that people in Mehamn got a little pissed off. The fast route is one of the few options to reach the outside world when both rv are reached. 888 and the aerodrome are closed due to storm. And you don't challenge being a real day of storm. We had enough of that in winter, and huntinggu we also had a little aftertaste of the winter on Monday that was. When Hurtigruten was not, or is, an alternative – yes, then there was unrest in the community of Mehamn. Losing an established communication service does something to those affected, for example. can make you feel insecure in your everyday life. Such a feeling of uncertainty also contributed to the matter being put on the political agenda. The community thought that Hurtigruten could call on an alternative berth until the repair of the main berth was completed, but it would and could not Hurtigruten do so because of the safety of the ship and its passengers – a decision that it was difficult for the population to accept, and we all understand that. In particular, it became challenging for local port authorities to doubt the decision of Hurtigruten, as Hurtigruten has periodically approached Mehamn following the collapse of Kaia in April 2012. As a result, a firm situation arose, which is also referred to in the Committee's position. I asked the Council of State a written question with the same content as the draft representative we are now discussing. The answer was the same as attached to this case. I support the assessments made by the Council of State and the Committee in this regard. The reason for this is that I think it would be difficult for me, as a politician, to press forward a decision that will test the Hurtigruten, considering that they have the overall responsibility for the safe operation of their ships, and that it is the captains of the ships who are responsible for safe daily operations. The same applies to my position on the wish of the proposer for the Coastal Agency to take a form of mediation in the disagreement between local port authorities and Hurtigruten. That would not be right, and I – without talking to the Coastal Works – would not believe that there is anything the Coastal Works want. Then I want to be as clear as the case rapporteur was when he said that the call pattern set in the contract between the State and Hurtigruten should be followed. In conclusion, I would like to say that on behalf of the people in Mehamn, I am pleased that it appears that the fast route caia at the Nordky terminal will be completed in August to September 2014. It is not necessary to say that, but there are clear expectations in the air that Hurtigruten will call Mehamn immediately after Kaia has finished. I don't think we need to ask anyone to follow if that happens. I'm sure if that's not gonna happen, we'll hear it here in Oslo, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5861	I just want to comment on what the representative of the Ingebrichsen started about, about the skin lua in Mehamn. I can only confess to the representative that when I was in Mehamn last Friday, it was quiet. Finnmark was the warmest county in Norway that day. It was sun, it was hot weather, it was great to be in Mehamn. It was simply not a use for the lingerie at all. After a meeting with the people I mentioned instead – where we would say from the south that at times language was a little bit sharper and more powerful than what we're used to – everyone went and ate the bona fide and cost themselves like a mere man can do in a place like Mehamn. The proposal for Ingebrichtsen is troubling, says the Ministry of Transport, because – as stated in the correspondence – it is not the responsibility of the Swedish Coastal Agency to assess the nature of the Kaien. There will be a relationship between shipping and port authorities. We're dealing with that, even though I realize there's a little bit of a difference of opinion about it. But what might be equally important is that I would think that if we were to ask the Coastal Agency to initiate such a process now, it would necessarily take some time. It is approaching holiday time in Norway with storm chalk. We know that in the middle of the summer there are a few months when things can take extra time. Last Friday's inspection revealed that Kaia at the Nordkyn terminal – the quay that has been destroyed – is now under construction and that Kaia is finished at the beginning of September. It's not a very long time, so I'm concerned that we're not doing anything that could delay it all. The case seems to have solved itself -- after maybe a little bit of noise. After the matter got a slightly troubled start and the parties might not be fully on the point of speaking, it seems that everyone is now busy finding solutions. I stress once again what a unanimous committee says, that as soon as Kaia is repaired, it is assumed that Hurtigruten resumes his appeals in Mehamn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5872	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5886	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5895	The matter dealt with by the Committee here, a proposal from the Left, is to have a national system of offering an electronic ticket for seamless public travel throughout the country. This is a matter in which the entire committee is behind proposals for decisions. The Committee sees the importance of making the collective offer well available and easy to use for passengers. We want more people to use collective means of transport. Then it has to be easier to choose good, adapted solutions in everyday life. A common ticketing system is likely to increase the use of collective means of transport and could in turn provide a better supply in the transport sector. The Committee considers it important to look at experiences with common ticketing systems that work well in other countries. But we know that such a system can pose challenges for us, especially because of the different price levels we have in our country. The proposers refer to Germany, where they have done so, and that the Germans use the system in more than one hundred German cities. Such a common ticketing system is likely to lead to enhanced competition between operators because alternative travel opportunities can be made more visible. It is important to facilitate a greater diversity of actors in the transport sector. Such a system may contribute to this. Furthermore, the Committee considers that a common timetable planner, together with a common ticketing system, will make it easier for public transport users. This will be particularly important when crossing the regional borders. We also know that making things easier for most people will be crucial because whether or not people will succeed in streaming to the collective offerings. On my own account, I would add that we have had a similar case for treatment in Stortinget earlier, Document No. 8:55 for 2008-2009 on a national scheme for an electronic ‘free-to-cow’ ticket on public journeys. The case then only got votes from the opposition, as was then the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Finally, this time – as I have said before – there is an overall committee behind the proposal. The proposers – including our good colleague Abid Raja – should be satisfied with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5912	First of all, I want to commend one of the proposers, Abid Q. Raja, for taking the initiative in the proposal. I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur. She has done in a very good and offensive way that we have achieved what we now have on the table. I'm not going to say much more about this, because I think the representative Vosskensen said it very well. But there are two things that I thought I might ask the Council of State, so I don't use the lines afterwards. This is an important matter for all the points made by the rapporteur, but it is also an important matter for the working conditions of public transport employees. In the Workers' Party, we think that a common electronic ticketing system also means that one is well on the way to cash-free public transport, which will reduce the risk of violence, ransacks and threats to the employees handling the tickets. Then I wonder if the Council of State might say something in his post if he could at the same time consider the possibility of thinking about cash-free travel, which is a theme that the Transport Workers' Association and the employees are very concerned about. The national flight planner was adopted at Stortinget in 2006. I have not intended to blame the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen for not doing anything, for he should not be responsible for it, but I know that many are concerned about it, including myself. I just know that this work was going on, it had come a while on the way, and the NRK was inside the picture considering that it was they who were going to do it, but then they pulled out. We've seen in the media that others are interested in taking over this. I'm just wondering if the council could say anything about where you're going, and if there's anything interesting about actually being able to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5923	First of all, I am very pleased that the Left has been given a unanimous boost to the idea that there should be a common electronic ticketing system for public transport throughout the country. This means that one should be able to use the same bus and train cards in all counties. That winner is important to the Left, and it feels a bit good, even though it's very late. It is also delicious that the media was very wrong, because they wrote yesterday that on Tuesday the Stortinge was going to adopt this system. Little did they know how happy we are in Stortinget to talk – so happy to talk that we have now talked for over 15 hours, over midnight. Now we're not going to adopt this on Tuesday, I'm counting on, because now it's really Wednesday. However, the winner is important, and that is because the transport sector accounts for one third of the greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. In many places there is a lot of queue on the roads. The left and I have promoted this because we are concerned that it will be easier to make green choices in everyday life. The systems must not prevent people from travelling collectively. In particular, the current lack of a common system for travellers in the East coming from another state and entering Oslo and Akershus by train or express bus is problematic. In other parts of the country, there are also no common timetables, so that effective travel planning for us consumers is difficult, not to say impossible. The collective system must make it easier to plan, pay for and make trips from A to Å. The joy I have of getting through is a little conditional, for this room has made several such decisions earlier on the national travel portal and common ticketing system, but it has stopped. That's a shame, because it's an important and central part of the development of the collective system. Although decisions have been made before and nothing has happened, this time I am more optimistic. Why? Well, because all parties agree that it should be possible to travel seamlessly across the country, and we have a Minister of Transport who has so far shown a willingness to act and act. I hope and believe he will demonstrate this in this case as well. This Decision is intended as a reminder, perhaps a push or a pressure from the Storting, in order to implement it as quickly as possible. I'm going to promise to follow up on what the Council of States is doing to follow up, so that we get a ticket system for public transport. In addition, today – or yesterday – I have asked all the county representatives from the Left to press for regional collectives to adapt to a national system to be tested. One of the reasons it has taken so long is that there are many parties to coordinate. I therefore hope that the other parties will also talk to their state politicians about their involvement in taking responsibility for the implementation of this. In this respect, county municipalities should participate actively in the coordination work, adapt their ticketing systems to the Road Administration’s manual on electronic ticketing and, where appropriate, grant funds for conversion to national systems. In Germany, they are able to have one card that gives access to both trains, buses, city bikes, passenger boats, car sharing schemes, etc. Think about it - one card or one app that gives you national access to all collective schemes! Take the plane from the Kirkenes, land in Oslo, walk straight off the Fly train, take the tram, hire a city bike, or do whatever you want, and you only need one card. You can do without fooling around or looking for ticket systems and trying to figure out what other states have of systems. When they do it in a country like Germany, it should be possible to do it in Norway too — and soon. The Council of State gets this task from a total accumulation today, and I am very pleased that both the rapporteur, the representative of the Labour Party and all other parties have concluded this. Two parties are probably not noticed in the committee, but I guess they will also vote for it, and when a total accumulation gives the Council of State this task, I look forward to rapid and effective progress from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5944	The greatest joy you can have is to make others happy, and today we have at least enjoyed the representative Raja. That's very good, the proposal that's being adopted. I first regret the fact that the Committee’s questions about investigating the original proposal for a ‘BahnCard’ were answered very briefly. It was simply because there was little known in the department's office, and a thorough research work had to be done to give an answer that was worth it. The proposal that is now being adopted, on the other hand, we are very pleased with, because with that, we get a job that we can tackle right away, and I think we can also deliver results almost as quickly as the representative Raja would like. For a long-term job has been done here through a national flight planner. It has also become a project that unfortunately has become terribly expensive – perhaps a bit in many different directions. In the end, we've actually spent a lot of time looking at how we can make it a good product, and that'll probably be the basis for fulfilling the decision that the Storting will now make. In this context, it is important, as the representative Raja also points out, that we have 19 county municipalities that also have their collective societies – perhaps more actors. Getting a national ticketing and routing system means that all those engaged in collective transport today need to work together to get the routes delivered in a common system. They would like to work together to get a common app instead of 19-20 different apps, so that one does not sit and doubt exactly what one wants, but looks at how one can make this work across companies, across state boundaries and across whether it is public or private. We're doing that job so far, trying to get in touch with the largest public society to look at their will. Here we accept all the help we can get by pressuring against their local politicians and their parties to show an open will to do so. Of course, we haven't made a decision today about which actor, if any, is going to commercialize this, what service and what app solution you are going to have. There will be work in cooperation with the actors, and there will probably also have to be a tendering process in this respect. These are things we have to look at. The benefits of this are no doubt about it. As a traveler you will be able to sit one place and go into one web page or one app and find the travel pattern you need for your daily commuting. One day there may be construction work on the railway, so there are delays there, but then you immediately get up an alternative travel route that allows you to still plan your day well. The fact that you can order tickets for this and get everything in one place – on a card or on an app on your mobile – instead of having to go to new machines each time, will make it very easy. If we're going to get what all the parties want, that is, people are going to enter the cities collectively – just because there's no room for all the private cars – I think one has to make it attractive for people who would otherwise drive a car, to travel collectively. Then it's about frequency, it's about predictability, it's also about making it easy, and a common ticketing system will make it easy. So there's another challenge with this, and that's the fare system. Some of the success of Router in the eastern part of the country is that thorough work has been done in the tariff area. A common ticketing system was tried 10–15 years ago, when there were so many different tariff groups and discount groups both in Oslo and in Akershus between the different companies that there was a technical gorcial link to this. If you want technical solutions, you have to make price structures simple, so it is actually possible to program – and predictably. Here's a job to do, and then all the actors have to show good will. But I am pleased with the support that Stortinget gives to the proposal from the Left – in the form that it finally received. It's a very clear marshalling earth for us, and we're going to deliver it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5961	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5967	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e5975	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 2-7, by Karin Andersen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 8, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 8. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size continues the price and subsidy levels of the agricultural holding in 2013 with the following amendments. The Government is asked to adapt other required changes in the agricultural structure within the total of 15,266 million. kr. Changes in the 2014 budget Maintain price increases in the government's offer 340 million. kr Increase the price of cereals by 0.25 øre 270 million. NOK Changes in price SEK 610 million. kr Increase area supplements for roughage 0-250 dekar by 10 % 600 million. kr Increase the grants to animals on the set-aside by 50 % 187 million. kr Increase the grants for relief in the case of leave/free time and sickness by 5 % 58 million. kr Increase the subsidies on organic production 1.3 million. kr Cut the feed cargo premium for fur animals -5,4 MSEK Change in subsidy 851,4 MSEK. krTotal increases in price and grant 1450,9»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6047	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–5, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘Prop. 106 S sent back to the government.’ [[2013-2014]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to open new negotiations with the agricultural organisations and to submit a new offer in accordance with the Stortingen’s assumptions, as set out in the Innst. 234 S in line with the following principles: livestock and grazing: [[2011-2012]] • Maintain an upper limit on the number of animals to which individual enterprises may receive grants • Strengthen the small and medium-sized economy by increasing the livestock premium in the first range for dairy cows and suckler cows. • Increase the operating grant for dairy cows and goats and the operating grant for use with suckler cows. • Reverse the government's proposal on cuts in the grazing premium for domestic cattle. Increase the rate and grant of the set-aside for all animals. • Strengthen the economy of sheep and suckling goats for the range 1 to 50 animals. • The milk quota arrangements are being continued as at present. Cereals: • Increasing the price of cereals and reducing prices in order to prevent increases in the feed price resulting from agricultural production. Drainage and environmental measures: • The rate of drainage subsidies is increased. Organic farming: • Increase the contribution to development measures for organic farming. • Increase the rates of area payments for roughage for livestock supplements. Fur animals: • The state's offer to fur farms is maintained and escalated to zero over the number of years. • Cereals as primary feed materials for fur animals are not granted a customs exemption within the same system as cereals in feed production for farmed fish. Berries, fruit and vegetables: • Support for fruit stocks is maintained and the regional contribution is reduced accordingly, as shown in the section below. the cooperation agreement. • the structure of the area grant is continued as it is today. Consequently, the significant increase in the rate shall take place at the first rate interval. • Increase in the rates of the largest use in order to increase the interest in the production of green products. Regional environmental programme [[(RMP):]] Welfare schemes/recruitment: • Holiday and leisure rates are prohibited by increased corresponding wage increases for other groups. • The early retirement scheme is reintroduced and the maximum amount is increased by NOK 10000. Development measures: • Increase in research, advice and breeding activities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘New agreement shall be submitted to the Stortinget and the existing agreement shall be extended until the adoption of a new agreement.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘An economic framework is established which implies a continuation of the development of income and the allocation of budgetary resources from the settlement for 2014.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6165	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish its own animal supervision.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for a new support scheme for increased woodland planting that is native to the site and does not pose a risk to biodiversity.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6196	Alternatively, between the second part of the vote and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘a) Prop. 106 S sent back to the government. [[2013-2014]] (b) The Government requests the opening of new negotiations with the agricultural organisations and the submission of a new offer in accordance with the stipulations of the Storting, as set out in the Innst. [[2011-2012]] 234 S The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6397	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will support the adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6583	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-8, from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit to the Stortinget any decision to close the supply of food and emergency services in hospitals.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a national health and hospital plan defining the tasks of each hospital, also locally, on a national basis.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a national health and hospital plan, so that significant changes and matters of principle are identified. the company law § 30, is determined by the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6610	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14 from the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that the development plan of the Hospital Telemark HF 2014-2016 is reviewed in the case of local hospitals in Rjukan and Kragerø.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that emergency functions and day-to-day treatment continue until further notice in Rjukan and Kragerø.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6634	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for significant changes in hospital structure and tasks — in particular changes in existing food and emergency preparedness — to be determined by the size of the National Health and Hospital Plan.’ The Christian People's Party has announced during the debate that they will vote against the proposal, and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6651	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1, 4 and 11, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify as soon as possible how hospitals are to be managed and where decisions of a material nature are to be taken.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to communicate with regional health companies as soon as possible in an appropriate manner how to deal with the government’s changed approach to the National Health and Hospital Plan.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of proposals for the 2015 State Budget, to clarify what the government itself puts in the wording of the Government Declaration on Local Hospitals and ‘the important role it has in ensuring preparedness for life and health throughout the country’.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6678	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to clarify as soon as possible whether regional health businesses should be closed.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6696	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the follow-up to the Telemark hospital offer, including providing a sufficient financial space to carry out the transitions in the best possible way, and at the same time asking the government to promote concrete measures with proposals for funding to ensure adequate emergency preparedness in the areas concerned.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6713	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Right and Advance Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a national health and hospital plan for the Stortinget, where the Stortinget can address the general principles for the development and structure of hospitals and specialist health services during the planning period.’ The Christian People's Party and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6746	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward, from the Torgeir Micaelsen on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to ensure that the Health Authority follows as soon as possible that the municipalities comply with the limits relating to reservations as described in the abortion law, the regulations and the corresponding circulars.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked, if necessary, to promote publishers of increased resources to the Health and County Authorities in order to ensure adequate compliance with today’s reservation-related legislation.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to clarify to the supervisory authorities that violations of the rules relating to the different reservations of doctors are to be sanctioned.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6791	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Otterstad on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a 5-year municipal mental health escalation plan, funded by new earmarked funds.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6834	The central party has announced its support for the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6849	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward in all. It's proposal No 1, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 4-7, by Tove Karoline Knutsen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 8, by Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals No. 9 and 10 by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party the proposals No. 11 and 12, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 13, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party There is a vote on proposal No. 13 from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a major communication on sexual health and the prevention of abortion aimed at providing women with no right to maternity benefits with better economic rights by, inter alia, increasing the one-off benefit to 1 G in the State budget for 2015.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6890	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11 and 12, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests that the law of the midwives and the health care sister be extended to preventative measures by the government.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for increased research on the reasons for variations in the abortion rate between age groups and over time and on the measures affecting the abortion rate, including knowledge research on whether it is appropriate to purchase hormonal contraceptives in pharmacy without prescription.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6914	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the gradual extension of the free-of-charge prevention system up to and including 24 years’ duration.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to improve the financial conditions of pregnant women without birth-related rights in the labour market by stepping up the one-off benefit to 2 G.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6938	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4, 6 and 7, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to reduce abortions by one third of 10 years’ duration.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take effective measures in the field of long-term, reversible prevention measures for permanent doctors, midwives and health sisters.’ [[LARC]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to extend the free hormonal prevention scheme to 16-19-year-olds to long-term reversible contraceptives. [[LARC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6965	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to develop specific targeted measures against selected groups where abortion rates are high.» The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e6982	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government calls for the promotion of a major communication on sexual health and the prevention of abortion aimed at reducing abortion rates by a third of 10 years, addressing specific objectives and measures to prevent infectious gender diseases in the population, in particular measures to ensure easy access to safe, modern means of prevention and targeted action against selected groups with high abortion rates, addressing measures to ensure targeted and systematic sex education, information and guidance services, as well as increased research and knowledge of the causes of abortion and the actions taken’ Christian People’s Party has warned that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7012	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to develop a more targeted and systematic sex education.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government requests the development of information and guidance services on prevention and unwanted pregnancy, such as Internet and telephone services, youth health centres, student health services and guidance services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7034	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a major communication on sexual health, which includes concrete measures to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and abortions.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7100	During the debate, one Sverre Myrli proposal was put forward on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the follow-up of the Government’s decision in the State budget for 2014 with a commitment to upgrade the Steinberg station on Sørlandsbanen, Lower Eiker, so that the station can be reopened for traffic as planned in December 2014 and the measures can be completed in 2015.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7135	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a strong link is planned and built to ensure that travellers on the eastern line of the Eastfold Railway can use the Folloban in the future and that this project is part of the work on the next national transport plan. The size suggests that this issue is addressed through an ongoing KVU and that as part of this work it is also seen how a future decision south of Ski can facilitate any future high-speed concepts. The size requests the fastest possible progress in the development of Folloban in line with agreed plans.» The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7145	That's what SV will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7200	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7233	In the course of the debate, one proposal has been put forward, proposal No. 1, from Ingvild Kjerkol on behalf of the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals to amend § 27 of the Road Law so that tolls can also be used for necessary emergency measures in connection with the project. The size request that tolls can also be used for emergency upgrades for road projects that are completed and in operation but still have toll collection.’;» [[including external emergency measures]] The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7357	For referral No. 4 a proposal for a representative, Document 8:86 S for 2013–2014, from Else-May Botten, Line Henriette Hemdal, Pål Farstad and Rasmus Hansson. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a case to be brought by the Government during 2014 for improved maritime safety, including an assessment of mandatory use of flotation equipment and how this can be implemented.’ In presenting the proposal earlier today, the proposers wished it to be dealt with in accordance with the provision of Article 39, second paragraph, point (c) of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure, which states that: «to be reviewed by the representatives for at least one day and then entered on the agenda for consideration». However, further consideration of the proposal must be considered in accordance with the provision of the last paragraph of Section 38, which states: ‘Once a proposal has been finalised, the proposal must not be re-submitted or re-examined in the same roll-out session.’ A proposal which is almost identical to what is available was rejected at the Stortingen meeting last Friday and is therefore affected by that provision. However, the last paragraph of Section 38 states that: ‘If necessary, the Grand Duchy may nevertheless decide that a proposal shall be re-examined, provided that it is re-examined.’ [[...]] In order to justify their urgent need to re-examine the proposal, the proposers state that the reason why the proposal was not adopted at the meeting on 13 June was that there was no correct ‘balance’ between the parties. This was due to an error in the replacement. The President considers that this reason for the error of the vote is not an urgent reason for the Storting to take a decision to re-examine the proposal. The President therefore proposes that the procedure for the draft representative, Document 8:86 S for 2013–2014, be in accordance with point (e) of the second paragraph of Section 39, which implies that the proposal is not being examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7389	I propose that the matter be sent to the Business Committee for consideration. This is not the time for generous reasoning, so I'm going to limit myself to talking about two things: It is imperative to ensure that the opinion of the majority of the population is expressed in the case. This was also the case in the so-called Fedje case, to which reference is made in the proposal, and which was pending during the previous period. It is also an important element that it does not conflict with other decisions taken in the case. That is why I am promoting a proposal that the matter be sent to the Business Committee and that the Business Committee should contribute to the rapid examination of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7400	The representative of Geir Pollestad has then proposed that Document 8:86 S for 2013–2014 be sent to the Business Committee for consideration. The President sees no need to open a debate on this issue, nor has it been requested, but I am adding to an alternative voting, and there may be a need for explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7405	The Right Party and the Progressive Party support the President's assessment of the formal aspects of the case and will vote against the proposal being re-examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7410	I recommend that the Working Party support the proposal of the representative of Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7415	I recommend that the SV team support the proposal for a new assessment of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7420	I would recommend that the Left should vote in favour of the proposal being submitted to the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7425	I recommend that the Christian People's Party vote for the matter to be sent to the Business Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7430	Then I expect it to be ready. Alternatives are proposed between the President’s proposal that Documents 8:86 S for 2013–2014 not be considered and Pollestad’s proposal that Documents 8:86 S for 2013–2014 be sent to committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-17.ana.ud213e7444	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? I don't think so. - The meeting's been cancelled.
