ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e88	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e91	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Vegar Solhjell, Trine Skei Grande, André N. Skkelstad, Rasmus Hansson, Liv Signe Navarsete, Heidi Greni, Geir S. Tuskedal and myself, I would like to put forward proposals to protect combat interpreters from Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e96	The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e99	On behalf of myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a minimum of three years of cessation of growth in the farming industry – until environmental problems have been brought under control.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e104	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e120	The aim of the Riksrevision study has been to assess the extent to which the introduction of new follow-up methodology in the Working and Welfare Seat has helped to improve the follow-up of people with disabilities and thereby speed up their work. The aim of new methodology has been to have a more targeted and individualised follow-up and use of labour-oriented measures. Instead of focusing on the individual’s limitations, a focus shall be on his/her resources and opportunities. The survey covers the period 2008 to 2013. The background to the Riksrevision survey is that the Employment and Welfare Act has a clear objective of getting more people with disabilities into work. But the figures have shown that the transition to work has not led to an increase. Despite a substantial part of the staff resources of the establishment for guidance and follow-up services for people with disabilities, and annual appropriations of approximately EUR 15 million are made available. 40 B.C.E. The Committee notes that the establishment is not successful enough in getting more people with disabilities to work. The objectives of the Stortinget have therefore not been met for the work of the establishment with this group of people. The Committee has noted that questions can be asked about the real significance of the introduction of new methodologies for more people to work. The same applies to the extent to which work performance assessments contain relevant information to assess the working capacity and needs of users. Another important question is whether the follow-up of the individual user is sufficiently labour-oriented. The Committee took note of the main findings of the National Audit Office, namely that the objective of employing more people with disabilities in work has not been achieved. Secondly, it will take a long time to clarify people with disabilities. Thirdly, attention to users’ job opportunities has been too low. And fourthly, poor management of the quality of the follow-up work itself at the Nav offices has been clear. For the populations surveyed in 2008 and 2010, there were in both selected groups at the lower edge of 25 pst. of the persons with reduced working capacity who came to work. The time to clarify people with disabilities is often so long that it helps to weaken the motivation of the individual and not least to believe that it is possible to get into work. When almost half of the users from the 2010 population went over half a year before an activity plan was drawn up at all, it is not difficult to understand that the relationship with the labour force is deteriorating, and the way back to work is even longer and more difficult. The Committee therefore notes with great concern that, in its follow-up to each user, Nav is too low for work. When about half of the work capacity assessments from the 2010 population were not even assessed, it tells of a focus that is too little on people’s ability to get into work. The activity plans are mainly now described instead of being concerned about the opportunities and resources each person has to be able to participate in the world of work. At all, a large part of the activity plans are perceived as very small obligating and to a small extent individualised. This impression is further enhanced when comparing the activity plans from 2010 to 2012. For even in the 2012 population, there were more than 60 pst. of the activity plans that did not focus fully on progress towards clarification of job opportunities. Another factor, linked to the follow-up of the individual user, which is of great concern, is the lack of user involvement. When the connection between the hub and the user is characterised by low continuity, less user involvement is involved, and opportunities for users to become more active in actions rather than entering the job are increased. This will be a further contribution to weakening the possibilities for users to return to work. Lack of concrete objectives to get into work combined with weak follow-up from the supervisor reinforces the impression that the means and methods of follow-up are available, to a lesser extent, in relation to the objective of employing more people with reduced working capacity. This is not only about the lack of follow-up by Nav, but also about the use of public funds that have to be questioned. Whether the new follow-up methodology itself is a better tool than previous methods for this type of follow-up, it is difficult to conclude from the assessment carried out by the Riksrevision. As the Committee sees it, the main problem is that Nav's practice does not take the new methodology seriously. In this respect, we are talking about very key issues such as the lack of follow-up of the target audience and, not least, as the Riksrevision points out, lack of knowledge about the labour market for users, and thirdly, lack of guidance skills and knowledge base for the follow-up of people with disabilities. In the light of the findings of the Riksrevision, that three years after the introduction of new methodology has not achieved the objective of better user follow-up, the Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs needs to obtain better knowledge and information on the causes: Why has there been a decrease in early clarifications? What measures are needed to reduce the time these persons are following the Nav? For the Committee it is discouraging to record that, although policy decisions have been in place for a number of years, as well as measures and instruments that can contribute to the implementation of the measures, this has not in any way provided the desired results. It is serious that so very central parts of Nav's work towards particularly vulnerable groups are not followed up better than the Riksrevision study notes. We record that the Council of State is not satisfied with the results that one today achieves, and sees it as a priority task to find solutions that make work out as much as possible with reduced working capacity. It is important for the Committee to stress that a strengthening of the follow-up to the work-related situation in the establishment must be followed up by concrete measures. To this end, the Committee endorses the measures proposed by the Riksrevision: enhancing the skills of supervisors in improving knowledge of the labour market and working conditions, emphasising quality development in its entirety in relation to the guidance service in a completely different way from the case currently more knowledge-based follow-up of people with disabilities; It is therefore crucial to improve the follow-up that the first line be strengthened with more relevant labour market and labour market competences. For the Committee, it is necessary to stress that the seriousness of the Riksrevision’s findings is particularly high when it can reveal that developments from 2010 to 2012 show a negative trend in relation to key indicators such as time of resolution and the number of people in work. The members of the Committee from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party refer to the work of the Council of State in developing a simpler, more knowledge-based and effective response system as well as a strengthening of professional governance. The members of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are, in addition to professional strengthening, concerned that the announced work must not lead to commercialisation where profit motives will reduce the quality and long-termity of the work. For the Committee as a whole, it is about changing a trend in a high priority area, where we expect the policy objectives to be pursued in a targeted work that can give people with disabilities new opportunities in the labour market. I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e184	‘My disability is that I don’t have a job to go to’ – posters with this embassy come in to look at trams, buses and tracks both here in Oslo and in Trondheim this week. The point is to show that there is a large group of young people with disabilities who want to work. Today, only four out of ten young people with disabilities are at work. But fortunately, the attitudes in the workplace have been better lately, but still only one in ten employers will choose to assign one person with disabilities. Secretary-General Lars Rottem Krangnes calls on both government and working life to discuss what is going on to create part-time jobs, so that more people can use their jobs. We've got another report on Nav, which shows that Nav isn't working well enough. I think Nav should be there for periods of your life where you might be most vulnerable. The hub should be there when you are going out and trying to get a new job. They're the ones who're going to help you. Then I think, what do people experience when they go to Nav? Do they get the help they need? Are they assessed based on actual working capacity? Today, there is a specific study by the National Audit Office of Nav's labour law on the follow-up of people with reduced working capacity to debate. I want to say first that the committee is in agreement, but there is a small difference of opinion at the very end – otherwise we are some in total – so I follow up what the case-speaker said, and I agree with him. Nevertheless: On Friday we had a hearing about Nav. It was found that Nav's measurements had not been reached. Getting people with impaired working skills was also up there. There were also conditions around ICT in Nav, which I know we're going to come back to, where Nav has had a loss of several hundred million dollars on an ICT system that should be streamlined, so that adding in Nav could take time for individuals. That's what it's all about, that we need time to help those who need it. The case spokesperson has now referred to the report, but I think the most important thing is that the goal of getting more people with reduced working capacity is not achieved. It says the report, and he reasons it with many different arguments, which I will mention some of: weak management, too little attention to users' possibilities for work, and that it takes a long time to clarify whether people with reduced working skills can work. In addition, performance assessments — that is a long word — should provide a basis for assessing whether users are fulfilling the conditions of redundancy money, which may deter users from pointing out what masters they are and what types of occupation they are likely to be. At the same time, medical statements provide little evidence of function and workability. As also mentioned by the case-speaker, there is a lack of user involvement. The Committee has said that if we do not set specific targets for the individual user, we will not be able to provide targeted help. I think that even with tools and policy decisions and actions for a long time, the implementation by Nav and the use of the follow-up methodology have not led to desired results. We are now expecting the Nav Department to ensure that meeting places are created where the first line and system developers work together to find good solutions. We join the National Audit Office's recommendations on strengthening labour law follow-up in the Working and Welfare Session. We are also concerned that the follow-up to such a vulnerable group is so lacking that the investigation by the Riksrevision has revealed, and that developments from 2010 to 2012 are negative. There have been longer clearance times and fewer people with reduced working skills who have come into work. I just want to comment that it is very good that the Council of State agrees with us so far. Now he will have to speak for himself afterwards, but the committee has also mentioned it in the comments. So I'll just mention the comment where we, along with the Center Party and SV, write that ‘it is essential that the notified work on bundling measures should not lead to the commercialisation of a sector in which profit motives will reduce quality’. With that, we think the main focus now must be on helping those who need it to get into work. I know that we have a lot of good labour market enterprises that are built up with this focus. I want them to keep it as the main focus and be the people who do the work, instead of being profit-based. As I said, Nav should be for individuals when they need help. Therefore, we suggested that this report be followed up so as to improve the possibilities for more people to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e219	I want to attach a few words to the matter that is being dealt with. Let me start by saying that I am far from satisfied with the implementation of measures that have been and that an overall committee has pointed out in this respect. There has been a decrease from 2010 to 2012. It is not satisfactory when we see that the transition to work is weaker now than it was at the time the Nav reform was introduced. It tells me that we have to take new hold. It tells me that you also have to do other things to succeed much more in realising the dream of people to be allowed to participate in the world of work. It's a task that the government takes in the deepest seriousness, and that's why the government also wants to work on a broad front to ensure that we can include more people in the world of work. Let me point to some of the things that we've already done. First of all, I think it was wise, right and important that we have now set up an expert committee to carry out a comprehensive review of Nav, where one of the most important things in the mandate is to look at how we can better manage the transition to work, help people with disabilities and people who are out of work, also in the ordinary working life. There is a good work going on, and the sample, as the Storting knows, will deliver its final report during March 2015. I would also like to point out that an attenuated partial objective 2 and clearer parties to the new IA agreement mean that there are greater ambitions to succeed in bringing more people with reduced working capacity into working life. That means that we also need to make some changes to ensure better follow-up. Therefore, in a short time, the government will present a proposition with a message part, where we come up with a series of measures to strengthen the follow-up in Nav, how we can improve the competence of Nav in order to get a closer follow-up of the individual towards the world of work. For me it is then important to do three important main steps: Firstly, I think we need to simplify the response system, make it more effective and ensure that we get more targeted response systems that make people get the right help faster than they do today. Secondly, it is important to strengthen counselling skills and, in particular, to have more obligatory activity plans that accompany and follow the individual into the labour market. This is why the government has already announced that a new system will be introduced, which will be simplified, but will replace some of today's measures with a job training measure. It also involves Nav being involved in the business and following up on the individual. I think that's important in order to achieve the goal of getting more people into the world of work. Thirdly, I register that the representative Eldegard says that we must not facilitate a system that opens up for profit. For me, it's important that we reach the big social outcome, the big social mission, and help people get back to work. For me, it is important to take care of and further develop the skills we have today, but also to attract new skills. All good forces must be used to help people return to work. Then I have great faith that there are small, good social entrepreneurs out there in the Norwegian community who are good at helping people get back to work – I can mention the Pub project – and I believe that we need to use them and non-profit organisations to a greater extent than we have done before. That is why it would also make sense, I believe, what the government has already done in bringing together the two clarification and follow-up measures, just to ensure that we don't have any more good forces. And then it's important that we at the same time be able to balance this in such a good way that we retain the competence that is already built up in this area. At the end of the day, I just want to say that I get a little tired when I hear that many people with disabilities stay out of work, that many people with reduced working capacity stay out of work and neither come to an interview, are followed up or are given the opportunity to participate. I also want to say that we all have a responsibility to figure out how we can succeed better. Specter, which I would like to give as an example, has published 130 jobs in their businesses for people with disabilities. I think that's great. This shows that the inclusion work is being taken seriously. What's a shame, and that makes it a little sad, is that there were only four applicants for the 130 posts. So here we also have a significant responsibility all of us to come up with good ideas about how we can get access to the right people who are out of work, unload them into the jobs that are actually available, and make them available to the employers who want to accept them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e238	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e241	First, I need to comment on the comments made by the Council of State Eriksson to my post. I can be open that there may be more people who can come in and join and help get people into work. That's what I thought was just positive. I think that when the Council of State mentions, among other things, The mob project, it's fine. I want to identify the labour market enterprises, which are very good. But I think there are some other companies that want to get into that market again to get a suction pipe down into the treasury, which may have profited more than helping people out in work. That's what I think you have to be very, very conscious of. So tell the Council of State that he is very satisfied with the new changes he has made, where he has put together different measures, such as: clarification measures for people with moderate needs for assistance and for people with reduced working capacity and a high level of assistance needs. Almost all the hearing authorities were against this and thought that this was not good – that would not lead to better provision for the others. Then I'm only fooling at why the council doesn't listen to the hearing authorities, when he's had this out on the phone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e248	We can answer that quite simply, because it is not right to open up tenders now. Today it is that you have had tenders for many, many years. There have been two follow-up actions, two clarification actions, one of which has offered both clarification and follow-up actions. In fact, the transition to work for those who have been offered is as good – if not better – as for those who have not been. At the same time, based on the experience, users who are far away from the labour market are also taken into account and helped them back. My point is that we have good experience running two parallel systems over time. This question has perhaps been one of the most investigated questions. I can refer you to the Brofoss committee, which presented its position a few years ago. It was also the basis for the previous government’s big message – which this government withdrew – which was presented in August 2013. So we feel that we're on a safe footing when it comes to making these changes as well, just to make the transition to work even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e255	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e269	In Document 3:8 for 2013–2014, the National Audit Board has submitted a report on the study of the state coastal management’s efforts to increase the share of freight by sea. Since 2004, the size has determined that the objective of transferring more freight by sea in national transport plans, budget proposals and in the budget positions of the Transport Committee is very important. The aim is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and pollution from the transport sector as a whole and to ensure efficient traffic management. The national audit finds that the share of domestic maritime freight transport has decreased since 2009 — in particular for NOR registered ships. On the other hand, freight transport on the road has increased. This is not only contrary to adopted objectives in the national transport plans of recent years, but undermines the climate objectives of the direct action and thus counteracts the climate settlement of the Stortinge. Estimates made by the Transport Economic Institute as a basis for the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 estimate that the growth of freight will be about 1.3 pst. annual between 2008 and 2043. This means that targeted transport policy priorities will continue to be crucial in order to avoid increased greenhouse gas emissions from transport. As is known, transport greenhouse gas emissions have increased by about 10 pst. since 2000. The Riksrevision report concludes that the lack of achievement of objectives is due to both weaknesses in the role of the Coastal Agency as a transport centre and that the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department, reaching the Ministry of Transport, has not followed up the work of the Coastal Agency or priority instruments. The national audit also finds that the charging system in the transport sector directly discourages the transport of goods by road to sea. Freight transport by sea competes directly with the carriage of goods by road. This means that transport policy in other areas is at least as important as the instruments of the Coastal Network itself, if maritime transport is to be developed. Let's start with the Coastal Works. It is one of four Norwegian transport establishments and it is responsible for the interests of maritime transport. The national audit concludes, however, that the Coastal Plant sees itself as a transport establishment to a small extent. 90 pst. of the facilities of the department for maritime safety and preparedness. The managers of four out of five ports state that the Coastal Works are not or are not a small driver for the carriage of goods by sea. More than half of the port managers believe that this is an important reason why no more goods are transported by sea. Nor has it reported on targets to increase maritime transport in 2013 and has it planned how this should be followed up, even though it has been a goal for the Stortinget. The National Audit Office finds that the Coastal Agency has little impact on the national transport plan in order to promote the carriage of goods by sea, and assumes that, among other things: may be due to the low capacity of the establishment on the basis of socio-economic analysis. In addition to the fact that the Coastal Agency itself has too little focus on increasing the transport of goods by sea, the National Audit Office notes that neither the Ministry of Fisheries nor the Coastal Ministry, now the Ministry of Transport, has followed up the maritime transport objective through overall governance, infrastructure and charging policies. During the period covered by the National Audit Office’s investigation, no system for the management and follow-up of freight and the transfer of goods by sea has been established. The aim of the size is not operationalised in the letters of allocation to the Coastal Works, and the objective is not mentioned in the governance dialogue between the department and the department during the period 2010-2012. This suggests that the Storting's objectives over many years have not been part of the formal, overall dialogue between the department and the coastal transport network. When the reporting of goods by sea has been lacking in the annual reports of the Coastal Agency, the Ministry has not requested reporting on this. It is worth noting that an overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs records that the Council of State in its reply underlines that the transfer of goods from road to sea: ‘not as an objective in itself, but rather as one of several instruments, which can, under certain conditions, contribute to the achievement of the main objectives of transport policy.’ According to the State Council, the overall objective of transport policy is: ‘to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system that meets society’s transport needs and promotes regional development’. The Committee notes, therefore, that the Council of State further down in the same letter states that the objective of good is ‘a vision and an ambition’, not an independent objective. The Council of State therefore considers this to be the case, but the Committee stresses that this is not the view of the Grand Duchy. It is the Ministry which shall set targets, governance parameters and performance requirements for the underlying activities in accordance with the objectives adopted by the Stortinget. The range of settings in which the good score is promoted shows that the target has had a high and long-term priority in the Stortinget. A unanimous committee therefore agrees with the Riksrevision that it is unfortunate that the Ministry has not set or operationalised targets for the transfer of goods from road to sea in the letter of assignment to the Coastal Agency, as required by the Financial Regulation. The Committee considers that there are grounds for reconsidering this strategy. By also making the good target a result target for which the agencies can report, there is also a greater chance of a coordinated transport policy for the purpose of the Stortinge objective, namely to reduce problems related to climate, environment, land scarcity and road safety. Although maritime transport charges have been reduced between 2010 and 2013, operators in this area believe that the level of charging for maritime traffic is still high and that it weakens the competitiveness of maritime transport. An overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs notes that the Maritime Strategy proposes to assess the impact of various measures to influence means of transport, including the price, use of infrastructure and use of charges in the transport sector. The Committee calls for such investigations to be included in the work of the Department now undertaken in order to increase knowledge of measures to obtain more goods by sea. The majority of the Committee, all except for the members of the Government Parties, shares the Riksrevision's concern that the Ministry has had too little knowledge to follow up the good order. The same majority are inconceivable that the Council of State in its reply to the Riksrevision believes that other target formulations of the national transport plan, such as increased competitiveness, conflict with the decision of the Storting and the clear objective of moving goods across to sea by rail. Yes, divisive goals create problems for which goals are most important. But it should provide a basis for clarifying road choices. The aim is to increase Norwegian competitiveness while moving more goods across sea and rail as part of Norway’s greenhouse gas reduction objective. This requires comprehensive strategies, including in road transport and railway policy. The same majority of the Control and Constitutional Committee, that is to say the entire opposition which has the majority in this Chamber, concludes that the government should assess whether the transport policy is targeted and prioritised enough, and agrees that it is desirable for the government to reach operationalisation of the goal of increasing freight transport by sea. The major objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector is also so important for the Storting that it is an objective in itself. The majority of the Committee considers that an overall and numerical objective of either a share of goods at sea and at sea or a numerical target of greenhouse gas emissions cuts from the transport sector as a whole could give a more targeted priority to transport policy instruments. The same majority of committees see a link between the lack of action in the Coastal Works, the lack of implementation by the Ministry and the fact that the action is not linked to concrete targets for emissions reductions in the transport sector. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department has not and still has not – we are talking about the Ministry of Transport now – specific targets for reducing emissions that a transfer of goods from road to sea will contribute to. This does not result in a lack of implementation at the level of the department as a whole in terms of priority objectives. Ensuring the maintenance of other, more priority objectives is becoming more important. An overall committee shares the other recommendations of the National Audit Office set out in the report, and I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e326	First of all, I want to say, as the vote also says, that we are very few with the committee here, and I can agree with the case-speaker and thank him for the work on this matter. Our goal of getting more goods at sea has actually not been achieved. This is the main finding of the national audit report; that that share of domestic maritime freight has decreased since 2009. They find that there are clear weaknesses in the Coastal Works' work to promote the transfer of goods from road to sea. The National Audit Office states that there are major weaknesses in the role of the Coastal Agency as a transport state, and – as I wonder here – the National Audit Office also states that there is a risk of a lack of impact in the national transport plan for measures promoting the transport of goods by sea. The coastal works shall be one of four modes of transport and shall be of interest to maritime transport. Nevertheless, the Coastal Plant sees itself to a small extent as a mode of transport, but it emphasises that their main area is maritime safety and oil protection. It is clear that then there will be a mitch with our goal of getting more goods across by sea. As I said in the introduction: I join the case spokesman, but there are several things that are important here. Fortunately, in the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, we presented a near-ship strategy that the new government has followed up – we appreciate it – I believe it can be involved and help us achieve our goals. But it's not just just, there's 30 different fees in the seaway. Driving goods on land is much easier than at sea. There are also no clear guidelines for this, and I also think that we should build up the LNG ship infrastructure. We need to have maritime safety in focus, traffic stations that provide the same service wherever one is, and logistics information that is improved to publish information about each item at any time is. There is a lot that is missing because we achieve our goals – which may not be the control committee’s area, it’s transport – but I’m happy to present that near-ship strategy, and I look forward to hearing the State Council’s comments and updates on how far we have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e341	I refer you to the unanimous remarks that lie in the matter and that explain our view here. I'm not going to spend that much time, but I'm going to take this opportunity to give a never-ending tip to the Council of State. Every day throughout the year it sails a fjord line ship from Stavanger to Bergen in the morning and back again to Stavanger in the afternoon. According to the shipping company, it has a capacity of about 100 additional wagon trains each way, which means 70000 vehicle combinations per year or 1.5 million tonnes of freight per year. The shipping company would like to take these car combinations on board and therefore remove them from the already overloaded E39. It can also be mentioned that the ships are split up new, they are just in traffic. They are environmentally friendly – they use LNG as fuel – which is good for CO2 emissions, but also for NOx emissions. This is very relevant to our big cities. These are boats that initially sail in foreign traffic between Norway and Denmark, and they therefore have a tax-free sale on board. This tax-free sale is certainly what makes it impossible to carry on board domestic passengers. The shipping company itself believes that this can be easily solved by issuing different boarding passes, and that without a boarding pass for foreign traffic, goods are not purchased in the tax-free. That's something we recognize from our airports. If necessary, the tax-free shop can be closed in the relatively short period between Bergen and Stavanger. So this is how the National Audit Report deals with only NOR-registered ships, i.e. domestic traffic. That's why there's nothing about this in the notes, but I take the freedom to talk verbally here about it instead. Then, of course, I have noted that the Council of State has made a positive public statement on this earlier. It's great, but I think this is a good thing that it's in place to remember once too much, rather than once too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e358	Waterways have been a highly taxed transport year for many years — probably as long as people live on earth. From Viking times we know the transport of people and goods, both along our own coast and in international shipping. This is how large parts of freight traffic, up to our days, have been carried out on the keel, where the sea, domestic waters and rivers have been the motorways where the goods have been transported. These include: not get a thousand cubic metres of timber that has found its way to the target users by being able to operate with the river stream, and therefore creaming has been a significant industry a few years ago. As the roads and railways have been expanded and modern transport vehicles have been developed, much of the freight traffic has been transferred from cold to road and rail. In recent years, in many cases, the railway has been lost for trailer traffic. There might be several reasons for this, which I'm not going to get into here. Since then, one has seen that the increase in inland transport, with the use of trailers, has led to considerable wear on the road network, which was not built for this type of heavy traffic when they were built. In addition, this type of traffic has a high fuel consumption and with the corresponding natural emissions. Our geography is such that one uses relatively much fuel per tonne-kilometre. The objective of transferring more goods by sea has been an explicit target since 2004 in national transport plans and in recent years’ budgetary proposals. The Riksrevision study shows that the objective of transferring more goods by sea is not operationalised in the letters of allocation from the former Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to the Coastal Plant. The Ministry has also not requested reporting on this from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, and the good score is not mentioned in the Coast Guard Agency’s annual reports. It is very unfortunate that the former Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has failed to set or operate targets for the transfer of goods from road to sea in the letter of allocation to the Coastal Agency, as required by the Financial Regulation. The coastal body, which is a large body of 1,100 employees, states itself that it considers itself only to a very limited extent as a transport establishment, and it is emphasised from their side that the main areas are to be maritime safety and oil protection. The National Audit Service believes that the Coastal Agency has not properly followed up the expectations of working to strengthen maritime transport, so that larger quantities of goods are carried by ship, as formulated in the National Transport Plan. According to the National Audit Office’s assessment, there is some uncertainty as to whether the Coastal Plant has been a sufficient driver for increased transfers of goods from road to sea. I am not so sure that you should load the Coastal Works because it has not been a driver for the conversion of freight traffic from land to sea. When the former Ministry of Fisheries and Coast has not operationalised this objective in the letters of allocation of its underlying establishment, one does not necessarily expect the Coastal Agency to see this as a priority task, even though one should still expect it. The Progress Party shares the recommendations of the National Audit Office, in particular the two most important: «The framework further develops the role of transport as a mode of transport in order to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in accordance with national transport priorities.» «The Ministry of Transport shall facilitate better interaction between the Coastal Works and the other modes of transport.» In the current government's political platform, it is among other things. downgraded the following: ‘The Government will facilitate the transport of more goods by sea. It will bring both road safety and environmental benefits by significantly fewer heavy-duty vehicles driving on Norwegian roads.’ In the past, cooperation between the Coastal Administration and the other modes of transport has been ensured for many years through NTP cooperation. At the time of the transition to the current government, the Coastal Plant was moved from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to the Ministry of Transport, and the work has thus been considerably reinforced by bringing together the transport modes under one hat – in the Ministry of Transport. The Council of State itself states that this collection will facilitate the management and coordination of transport modes and be positive for the development of each unit and contribute to the cross-sectoral use of instruments, which can contribute more to addressing the key transport challenges. Although organisational steps have already been taken to make it easier to see all transport modes in the context, one should also follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office, so that one has a greater security to achieve the aim of Storting and the government of transferring more of freight from land to sea. I would also like to refer to the rapporteur's full explanation of the Committee's views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e400	The report reveals a lack of consistency between the stated objectives of Stortingen to transfer more goods from road to sea and what the actual measurements show during the period 2009-2013. Yes, the survey shows that the share of domestic maritime freight transport has actually been declining, as explained. What one notices in particular is weaknesses in the organisation and lack of target awareness in the establishment. This can be seen in the context of the results shown by the studies in this field. The credit has not been explicitly mentioned in the letters of credit issued by the responsible department. Nor has the responsible department, the Coastal Agency, drawn up plans or reported thereon in its feedback to the Ministry. It goes without saying that the results in this area must to some extent be influenced by this form of lack of governance and awareness. When the target is not operationalised and is not requested, the system around the work towards key targets is lacking which can deliver the expected results on the basis of the Storting decision. I think for the Christian People's Party that it is positive to record that several measures have been taken after the Coastal Agency was introduced under the Ministry of Transport for a better way of helping to achieve the objectives. A near-ship strategy, designed in 2013, has also created expectations of several actions in the future that can counter the trend pointed out by the Riksrevision for the period. Freight analyses and the development of infrastructure relating to the definition of designated ports, the development of ports and fairways and the designation of intermodal hubs become all key instruments in the achievement of the objectives of the Storting. One of the conditions pointed out by the National Audit Office, which is likely to have a significant impact on the extent to which it will be able to achieve the objective of more goods from road to sea, is not least the economy that follows the transport of goods. While roads are largely financed by the state, ports are largely built up by municipal and private funds. It has an impact on the costs to be borne by the transport of goods by berth, in addition to the State charges. It is important to note the recognition by the National Audit Office of the importance of a high level of charges for the competitiveness of maritime transport. Therefore, it is positive that in the near-ship strategy presented in 2013, it is proposed to carry out an assessment of different types of measures that could have a direct impact on the distribution of modes of transport. This applies both to the price of the use of infrastructure and to charges in the transport sector. It is important that, in the light of this report, an appropriate instrument should be carefully considered in order to promote more freight transport by sea. This is about better monitoring of Storting’s objectives, governance and reporting based on operational objectives, better organisation of the available infrastructure, and not least how charging policies and other available economic instruments can be implemented. In this respect, the ordered goods analysis becomes a very important tool, we believe. On the basis of the objectives set by the Storting, there is reason to point to the need for a more coordinated transport policy. This includes an assessment of the impact of different types of measures on the distribution of transport modes, including the cost of using infrastructure and the use of charges in the sector. It is essential that these types of assessments become a central part of the work now undertaken by the Ministry in order to increase knowledge of what measures can help to achieve the goal of more goods at sea. The Christian People's Party is part of the majority of those who are committed to achieving an overall and numerical objective of either the share of goods at sea and track or greenhouse gas for the transport sector as a whole. We believe that this is how you will be able to give a targeted priority to the choice of instruments in transport policy in the future. These are options that are essential for achieving a more environmental profile of freight transport. Otherwise, I refer you to the case rapporteur's thorough examination of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e423	It's an important topic you discuss. It is good that the Storting engages so much in the problem itself, and that the government delivers in the areas. Now is the measurement period that the Riksrevision has assessed, from the time of the previous government, but it is important that we learn from what has worked and what has not worked, to ensure that a better implements this policy for the future. One can discuss what are objectives, and what are ambitions, but there is no doubt that a total increase has wanted more goods from the road to the cold and, to a large extent, to the rail, because one believes that it would be positive for the environment, for the roads and for road safety. The national audit has revealed some technical and methodological disagreements between the Ministry and the Riksrevision. This applies, inter alia, to: audit criteria, analysis delineation and not least the question of whether freight transfer is an end in itself, a political ambition or a transport policy instrument. That being said, in its documents, the National Audit Office and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs point to several important issues that I would like to follow up. Following the change of government, this government has promoted several measures that contribute — and will contribute — to more transport at sea. The Ministry has launched a number of processes and projects in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. That is why I believe that much of what the Riksrevision points out is already being tried through what the government is doing. The first thing this government did after it took over was to transfer the coastal area to the Ministry of Transport. Some of the points were made, and this national audit report shows that a previous one has dealt with the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in relation to this issue. Now we've got this in as part of the transport responsibility, and one already sees that the Coastal Works get much better access to the roadway and railway works than what one did before. That's why I think this in itself is very positive. Then we have taken control of the unloading system. This will lower the cost of short sea shipping, and the government will, among other things. assess the change and reduction of unloading charges in order to enhance the competitiveness of short sea shipping. We are also further developing the short sea shipping strategy, and in a short time we are presenting our own port strategy. In addition to the measures I have mentioned, we have asked Transnova to give priority to short sea shipping so that they can support projects in the area of short sea shipping and freight transport with documented climate impacts. Now, when we propose to merge Transnova and Enova, we get an even stronger organization with even stronger instruments and capital base, just to implement that kind of grip. Cooperation between the Coastal Works and the other modes of transport has been ensured for many years through NTP cooperation. The reorganisation of the government's departments has been an important step towards strengthening the basis for cooperation. Major parts of the transport sector have thus become the responsibility of one Council of State and not many, and this could make governance and coordination much easier. In addition, closer and more integrated cooperation will be positive for the development of all levels, while contributing to cross-sectoral use of instruments. Such coordination can contribute more to addressing the key transport challenges. Transfers of goods from road to sea are not part of the target structure of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, and it is important to remember that this is partly measured. The reason for this is that freight transport is not an objective in itself, but rather one of several instruments that can help achieve the main objectives of transport policy. One can well discuss whether it makes sense or not, but that is what is the starting point of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. We can discuss whether it should be different the next time a national transport plan is presented, but wanting things differently does not mean that one can criticise when the wishes are not implemented. One has to implement what is actually in the government's plan, and from what the Storting decides. And then one can also look at the statistics, because it's a meter, is often that the proportion that's transported has been reduced. Then it is worth noting that there is a meter on NOR-registered ships that go between Norwegian ports. We know that much of the shipping traffic carrying cargo comes from abroad. When one takes all transport in Norway, shipping actually stands for over 80 pst. of total transport. Much of what we transport is bulk. Much of it is going out of Norway. It doesn't come into this statistics, and so statistics get worse than it's for, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't be looking at the problems of seriousness, where one could get more. There is no doubt that much of the goods coming from abroad on the road could and should have gone by ship to Norway, but also there we have said that we should seize. We've strengthened the Coastal Plant considerably. The Coastal Plant is one of many major budget winners in the state budget that Stortinget is currently dealing with. It allows you to get a strong bet on different things. What is happening on the unloading system is part of the work being done by the Coastal Works, but the Coastal Works budget for 2015 will largely go towards speeding up fairway improvements along the coast. Not only does it finance what was contained in the plan of action for this four-year period, but in the budget submitted, we have also proposed allocations for the planning of fairway improvements for the next six-year period. I focus on strengthening the capacity and competence of the Coastal Agency in socio-economic analysis. It is important for them to be able to make good estimates and estimates of where to go further. Several actions and investigations are under way to strengthen the knowledge base and develop governance information on the carriage of goods by sea, and all modes of transport are now carrying out a broad social analysis of freight transport to analyse flows of goods and to identify the potential for the transport of goods by road to sea and rail. This project is planned to be completed in the summer of 2015 and will be very important for some priorities we do then, not only for shipping, but also for rail and road transport. It is also worth discussing when shipping is an appropriate transport operator. It's not like if you're going to have a product from Oslo to Drammen, it must be a goal that it's going to go to sea. Then it would be natural to send it by other means. It has also been pointed out many times that shipping has its advantages – when it comes to transporting large volumes and/or long distances – and one has usually, during both this and the previous government, said that for distances of more than 500 km, shipping is a natural winner, but at shorter distances, rail can often be as appropriate. What we also have to take into account is that shipping has an advantage once you have got the goods on the ship, because then the transport costs are low, but there are relatively high handling costs each time you have to reload. This again means that in short distances the profit of having something on the ship will be small, and the cost of handling a port at each end will be large compared to other modes of transport. That is why we also need a nuanced approach to which product flows are to be applied to which means of transport. If we are to be able to make this the most appropriate, we are dependent on many actors, because this is a free market where different logistics chains choose their own means of delivery. It is the domestic and foreign market actors who establish logistical solutions and make decisions on the choice of means of transport. It's not a choice that the Coastal Works make on their behalf, and it's not the kind of society that we should have either, where the state should sit and dictate which forms of transport different people should use. But it is possible for the state to contribute to facilitating better choices. It does so through charging rules. It does one by stimulating competition. It does one by eliminating costs, and it does one by ensuring that the different modes of transport actually bear the costs they themselves charge to society. Some of the government's policies have been put in place, not necessarily directly against shipping, but that we should generate more real costs for freight by road. That is why this government has made a great effort to increase checks on vehicle combinations, simply because those operators who do not have good vehicle combinations, who do not have good car combinations, put their fellow passengers at risk and do not maintain their vehicle combinations, are to be removed from the traffic. This means that one can get some players out of the way that are currently underpriced and thus ruining competition, not only for Norwegian road hauliers, but also for rail and shipping. That is why we have said that we should introduce mandatory bombers from New Year's to make sure that one pays separately in the bombings. We have introduced clearer control tools along the roads, not only increased control, but also the possibility of using wheel locks. We've changed the law in line with that, just so you can keep the vehicle back. By taking such action, then, one will get away with those who today are undermining the competition for road transport. And then you get a more accurate price picture of that kind of transport. It will in itself improve the competitiveness of rail and shipping. Then it is important that the Coastal Agency helps to facilitate the fairways in and out of the ports, and that the operations in the ports and everything that the Coastal Agency is responsible for become more effective in reducing costs. The 2012 Climate Communication mentions that the government will facilitate the transition from freight by road to sea and rail and that it will strengthen the role of maritime transport in the transport system. But also in the climate report, one emphasizes that there are not all places where there is the potential to transfer goods to sea, simply because the distances are too short. So this one right over here is a competition area over 500 kilometers. So this is a knowledge, a meaning, that has been established across governments. In order to improve the accessibility and safety of transport systems, to reduce the development needs and maintenance costs of road – a truck is struggling on the road 500-600 times more than a passenger car – and in order to reduce environmentally harmful emissions from the transport sector, the government will facilitate more freight transport by sea. Transport and logistics solutions are at the same time very complex, as I have mentioned. There are many actors and decision-makers who affect transport flows and the distribution of means of transport, and the last word is the market. From our point of view, it is essential that the development of transport infrastructure should be seen in a context and that investment and charging policy should be seen in the transport sectors as a whole. This applies, inter alia, to: what I mentioned with increased control and response to the truck industry. In this perspective, it is important to bear in mind that the Coastal Agency does not have resources and instruments that alone can help to change freight flows or, for that matter, affect the choice of means of transport of the market, but they can make important contributions in this respect. But this has to be seen against what we do on the road, on the railways, in fiscal policy and in labour policy, etc. Since transport policy as a whole and a single State instrument are likely to affect the choice of mode of transport of the market, future revisions of this type should look at all relevant parts of central government as a whole. Finally, I would like to say that we record that it is very good that happens with short sea shipping in Norway. Things are going in the right direction, even though sometimes things are late, and there are many people who are actively working to get goods that are currently walking along the roads. It's positive, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e463	The size has adopted a climate settlement. That climate agreement can be said much about, but at national level, the essence of the agreement is that by 2020, greenhouse gas emissions in Norway will be reduced from about 53 to about 47 million tonnes. That's not weird. The remainder is to be taken by more or less efficient and more or less theoretical quota purchases abroad, but 6 million tonnes must be cut in Norway. This has not happened, and we know that quite well now. Over five, six, seven years of climate change settlement, emissions in Norway have not been cut, and the recent national budget contains a table from the Statistical Central Agency and the Ministry of Finance that estimates that greenhouse gas emissions will not decrease by 2020 either. They're not going to start going down by 2030. The issue we are discussing now, the decisions to transfer goods from road to maritime transport, is an excellent example of why it is not cut into greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. This is an excellent example of why, in the transport sector, greenhouse gas emissions have actually increased by 10 pst. between 2000 and 2013. The reason is, of course, that the national targets adopted and repeated in the Grand Duchy, and even reinforced by the current government, are not being operationalised, are not being broken down on an individual sector, are not being made a target for a Council of State, for a sector and for agencies – and they are not being linked to concrete instruments. When the Storting decides to transfer goods from road to sea, there are several reasons, but one of the main reasons is the assumption that this will lead to lower greenhouse gas emissions per freight unit transported. So why have changing governments not wanted to link concrete objectives to these measures? It's an interesting political discussion, but the result is quite obvious: it's not cut in emissions as long as you don't operationalise your overall, airy national targets, and so long as it's an active, deliberately unwillingness to do it in offices and in the political majority in Norway. The Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Green Party have put forward a proposal for a climate law – to present a climate law for voting in the Stortinge during this period. This is precisely because a climate law will provide the mandatory framework that will require climate targets to be broken down at sectoral and etat levels, that it must be reported and that different selected measures, such as: the transfer of goods from road to sea is linked to an expected performance target, against which it is measured and which will require a State Council to report on what has happened and why it has happened. It is a commitment that has not yet been taken on in Norway for a remarkable reason. The result is very well-known and very depressing, but the possibility lies here, by adopting a climate law that does this job. So the Council of State points out a number of features in the development of maritime transport: the change in charges, the merger between the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department, the merger of Transnova and Enova, etc. I agree with the Council of State that this is a good move. I think they'll lead in the right direction. But they will, of course, lead in the right direction if they are linked to concrete performance targets. For what is still ominous, reference is made by the Council of State to competition considerations. Well, competition is something you might have to ignore sometimes if you want to achieve another goal. Of course, the Council of State also states that the market has the last word. Well – if he takes it seriously, it is not the Council of States that has the last word, and the Council of States must have the last word if the climate objectives to which he has committed himself are to be implemented. The question to the Council of State is then: does the Council of State agree that the transfer of goods from road to sea and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from transport by means of the transfer of goods from road to sea should become a priority, concrete objective of the Ministry of Transport and of the Coastal Agency?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e480	It was said that the Council of State must have the last word if we are to get to this, because if not, a market is allowed to rule. Yes, do we want a society where the Council of State will sit and decide whether to send a container by ship, train or truck from Oslo to Drammen, from Oslo to Tønsberg, from Oslo to Kristiansand? Of course we can't have that! For this reason, the market – by being the logistics companies, the owners of the transport sector – is making choices as to the instruments, the modes of transport to be chosen. We can't have a society where politicians are supposed to sit and make such decisions. But what society is going to have is a government that actually makes it more attractive to send goods by ship and rail, for one to take over the whole in that it costs a lot of money in maintenance on the road to send more goods by truck. Roads are becoming more difficult, transport volumes are increasing, road safety is being reduced, and accessibility is being reduced. Where we can get more goods on rail and ship, release a road capacity for other things, and one reduces maintenance costs. That is why, as I said, it is important that we see coastal transport as part of the transport pattern on land, and it is therefore important that this responsibility now lies in the Ministry of Transport instead of being part of the fisheries policy, as it was before. I believe this in itself shows a different way of thinking with today's government than with the previous government. And then it's important that we look at the costs of the different modes of transport. Today, shipping covers almost all its own costs. Railways are heavily subsidized, and road transport pays a lot of its – and others – costs. Then we also have to look at how we can make changes here. But it's the railway that gets the best out, and the truck industry that pays the most. So it's not that the truck industry has an advantage in the first place, but the truck industry has an advantage of the fact that the drivers are also involved and pay for the infrastructure at the bottom. So here there might be different things that make the truck industry come out better than they should, and that shipping gets worse. We have to make sure that we get a more competitive foundation here, which means that when Bring, Schenker and others – or Bama, Toro etc. – choosing their transport solutions, they make an incentive to choose shipping where it is most appropriate, but it is not appropriate in all areas. Then we also have to look at the possibilities there are, and the representative from the Right brought this up with Fjordline – sorry I didn't mention it in the previous round. There are some areas where services are going on today, where we could easily have gotten trucks on ships instead of having to drive between Bergen and Stavanger. This is something we're working on. But what we have seen is that it is not just tax-free that is a challenge; there are also strong forces in the trade movement that see this as a problem, because the ship they are going to join is Danish and not Norwegian – and only there are environmental objectives that conflict with a little old-fashioned thinking in some trade unions. These are also things that show why this has not been solved in the last eight years, but we intend to solve it, and we have good dialogue on the issue. It is important to me that more of the goods that come to Norway come by ship or by rail, because when it does, it probably goes further up the coast or further into the country on the keel or on the railway. If it first comes to Norway on a truck, it is likely to be delivered until the door with a truck. So when we look at the transport patterns in Norway, we see that the railways have a fairly good competitiveness from Oslo to Trondheim, from Oslo to Bergen, from Oslo to Stavanger. Shipping has a reasonably good competitiveness on the same routes, but from Gothenburg to Oslo it is mainly a truck it comes with. That's where we have to do a job, and that's where this statistics don't catch it. If we had managed to get more of the freight coming domestic, over to the keel, we would have won a lot here. But much of this comes to the cold in bulk, what comes to the West, comes to the cold. We have to get a statistic that takes more into account all kinds of transport by sea, so we get more real comparisons, and then it's unfortunate when you only bring NOR ships in domestic traffic, and you don't bring foreign or NIS-registered ships. So the statistics you're referring to become a little bit too bad. It supports the transport at sea, which is currently in the shadow. But again, we work hard to get more goods across the sea. However, it is in a way to achieve its own objective, yes, the objective — it is the most important use of the instrument. We have seen that climate targets have been set for many, many years in many climate notifications without one having fulfilled them, because the instruments are not being followed up. Then it's just to point out that the Coastal Plant is one of the budget winners, and another of the budget wins is railway. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this government has made sure that for the first time in a long, long time, the maintenance of the railway will be reduced next year. The railway maintenance drivage grew by nearly 1 billion. kr annually under the previous government. Despite everyone saying that we should have more goods left on the railway, one did not choose to prioritize the maintenance of the railway. And that meant that when one came to 2009–2010, the railway started to be so worn out and had so many cancellations that people stopped using the railway – no matter what the politicians had as a general party speaker – simply because the logistics industry needs to know that the goods come out when it's agreed. It is the same thing that has to be done on shipping: there are too many delays in some places on the routes because it takes too long in the ports, and there have also been many conflicts in the ports that illustrate the challenges that exist. Therefore, short sea shipping must also be able to demonstrate more time reliability and lower costs of «action» in ports in order to raise competitiveness. Then it is not only useful to point to the Coastal Works or to a Council of State. It is important to point to the market because there are so many actors who have an impact on the choices made and the costs incurred. This is why a State Council alone cannot or should not be responsible, but a State Council should be responsible for the public parts of this sector and work in line with the political objectives it has. And we have done this by ensuring that the Coastal Plant is integrated into the transport sector, i.e. into the Ministry of Transport and not into the fisheries sector, as it was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e502	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e518	I want to start the interpellation by saying that the aupair system is great for many people and has been a good arrangement for many years, both for our own young people to travel out and for families in Norway to become acquainted with other cultures. The AUPair scheme was regulated by the Council of Europe in 1969 and ratified in 1971. Norway was in the beginning a missionary country, while we are now a destination country, especially for au pairs from Asia and Eastern Europe. It imposes other requirements on our own rules and on the management of the scheme, a scheme involving around 3000 new au pairs per year. It's not the system itself I think is wrong, but what we see is that the system is now being hollowed out to something other than what it was supposed to be, namely a cultural exchange. To be on the same footing, as it originally means, is to give knowledge of language and culture and apply to them between 18 and 30 years of age, most girls, but approximately. 5 pst. are men. It is defined in the guidelines which tasks are to be performed and residence permits are granted for up to two years. However, the granting of a residence permit or a work permit varies from country to country, while in Norway we grant a residence permit. The question then is whether this has become a scheme for those who want cheap labour to help at home. Today we see that the scheme can be used for that. The Norwegian People's Aids Au Pair Center, which provides advice, information and legal assistance, can tell about many aspects of the scheme that are not just positive. Some experience abuse and poor working conditions. They receive no language training or cultural exchange and have long working days, with heavy housework and a lot of solitude. I think we agree that the scheme was not intended to be used to legitimize such matters. Today, there are people from Peru and the Philippines who are the largest group outside Schengen who have au pair status. Those within the Schengen area can enter into employment agreements. So they don't fall. Many of those who come here come from poor households, with family and children at home, although the general rule is that children in their home country should not grant a residence permit. But we know that. This is avoided by not telling, not registering the kids on their own or having false identity. They will often help those who are left at home — and can do so with the subsidy they can send home. The Au Pair Center of Public Aid has uncovered several cases of trafficking in human beings. In 2013, they had 350 enquiries. In three of the cases, it is revealed that there is too much work to do, so that it tends to trade in human beings. The contract says a maximum of 30 hours a week. It has to be kept, but we know it's broken. Do we have any rules to prevent this? The size changed the Foreign Affairs Act. Quarantine measures were introduced against host families that abuse the scheme. Quarantine measures will be preventive and will be able to protect against undue pressure from the host family. The action mainly affects the host family, not the au pair. I think that's important and correct. Why hold a debate on this scheme – do we disagree? It's important because there's so much negative happening within a scheme that should be positive for everyone. Our political responsibility is to make arrangements that do not allow abuse by other people or that are not exploited. As a member of the Nordic Council, I have also raised the issue in Nordic cooperation, for these are challenges that concern several Nordic countries – Denmark most, Finland least. It is less about Finland because they have strict rules on, among other things, to have studied the language in advance, and it might frighten. In Sweden it is difficult to obtain a work permit if you have been au pair in another country just before. There's been a drop in the application amount. Maybe that's the reason. We in the North are a common market. One sees that many work first in one country, and then in another. They're shopping host families. Norway is on top, most attractive, because we have quite a high rate of pocket money – $5,400 a month. That's why we also have most things. It would be wise to establish a common regulatory framework for the Nordic region to ensure that this once again becomes a real cultural exchange offer. The choice of countries should be made in advance. The Nordic countries are quite the same in terms of culture, and it must be unnecessary to stay in several of these to learn more about our culture, if that's the reason. I think we also need to make the police aware of how they are going to work on this, and what demands are to be made on the host family. But we also need to be aware that the police are not always seen as helpers by those who come here, but are often seen as a threat. Therefore, it is important that the police have good knowledge of the conditions surrounding this with the aupair system. Some are exposed to quite serious acts. We can find more judges in our legal system where the victim was au pair – several were sexually exploited. The question the police should ask is whether there is an au pair we're talking about, or whether it's a victim of human trafficking. It is then important perhaps to be aware of it to be able to offer a reflection period if that is the last thing we are talking about, and that this becomes a matter for the court, so that it is followed up. All rules must be made more visible. The fact that the holiday law applies to au pairs may be known to some. However, the legislation is unclear, and it is easy to do – this is not the employee and the employer. This may be something the Council of State can take further into the government, although I know that this law is not his field. But the rule should be clearer. Coming as au pair to Norway or the Nordic countries is too many the only way to get here. It is therefore important to find out ways in which we can best care for their relationship. Language requirements, study permits and more pure cultivation of the cultural exchange site may be some useful measures. Other measures may include clearer rules on working time, better definition of easier housework — see why Sweden has fewer applicants than other countries! Is the requirement for the first country just the way to go? Should we set a limit on how many countries you can travel to, or should there be a limit on the time, even the total time? In Denmark, insurance is a claim. The au pair is reported to the public register and health insurance and three other insurances covering occupational injury, recreational injury and injury and repatriation in the event of sickness or death. They must also cover the trip home to bopel outside Europe. Could there be a way to find rules in common? We know that some host families include the insurance premium in the total and set off or expect additional service. It's not allowed. Should we look more at that rule? Much is regulated in regulations. Should the value of free food be part of the holiday basis? Who informs about the holiday law? Should there be an agreement in the standard contract for both pay, holidays and rights? Another side of the scheme that I want to mention is the view of equality. Since the majority are women, this is also a challenge for equality. Some host families choose au pair because they don't want to do housework or take care of their own kids. The Au pair is then used as a 24-hour home service. We have thus been given a new type of ‘rulers and servants’, which I believe we should not accept here in Norway. Is it a solution to make it easier for people to come to Norway, work as a maid and get a work permit? There are many who want help in the house. With au pair they can get it at a low price, a price that does not match the wages. Instead of paying a household servant NOK 20 000 – NOK 25 000 a month, they can pay NOK 5 400 and get 24 hours of service. It's social dumping. When this happens in the workplace otherwise, we thank you – then the trade union movement can thank you, then we have a law that goes into effect. Here it's clear. That is why I have raised this debate. We have to think about how we can solve this. Here's a lot of things to catch up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e565	Let me first thank the representative Mandt for the interpellation. It is important to have open discussions about the aupair system. I also think that is important, as the representative has shown, not only in Norway, I would have almost said, but also by raising this up on the Nordic agenda. Because there is no doubt that this can be a good question for having some common Nordic guidelines on how to do this, to a greater extent than today. Norway ratified the Council of Europe Agreement on the recruitment of au pair from 1969 in 1971. Since then, in terms of gender roles and gender equality, labour immigration regulation and international migration flows, as the interpellant was involved. The number of au pairs in Norway has also increased significantly, and today’s au pairs come to a greater extent than before from poorer and less developed countries than Norway. In 2013, 1667 new aupair permits were granted. By 31 October of this year, 1220 authorisations were granted. About 85 pst. of those authorised to act in 2013 and 2014, Filipino citizens. After them comes Ukrainian, Vietnamese and Thai citizens, who each got 2 psts. of the aupair authorisations. The purpose of the aupair system is, as the interpellant says, cultural exchange where a young adult is given the opportunity to learn another language and gain insight into another culture by being included in a family in the host country. The idea is also that the host family should learn about the au pair's culture and home country. In return, the au pair shall facilitate housework and assist with childcare. The scheme does not therefore involve a traditional employer/employee relationship. The AUPair Scheme’s intention – language training and cultural exchange through work and family participation – is good and based on values that ensure that the scheme, which is also concluded by the inter-pellant, should remain. But we have to make it work the best possible way. Young people from other countries too should still be able to come to Norway and learn about Norwegian culture and social conditions. The Fafo report ‘On equal terms?’, written by Cecilie Island in 2009, concludes that many have enjoyed the aupair system, but that the scheme is often not perceived and practised as intended. Although the cultural exchange aspect is not entirely irrelevant to the scheme today, unfortunately, some host families regard the aupair scheme as primarily a form of work organisation or income strategy. In the media, serious abuse of the scheme is reported from time to time. Unfortunately, the relationship between the au pair and its host family makes it possible for au pairs to be subject to different levels of exploitation. I am also concerned that we should take these challenges seriously. In 2011, the Ministry of Justice carried out an evaluation of the aupair system, which led to several changes in legislation and practice, with a view to strengthening the cultural aspect and preventing au pairs from being exploited as cheap labour. A number of measures have been introduced in recent years to prevent abuse and strengthen the cultural exchange aspect. One of the measures was to introduce a quarantine system for host families who abuse the aupair scheme in the event of serious or repeated breaches of the conditions for having au pair and for host families with a member who has been penalised for offences against an au pair. The provisions on quarantine for host families entered into force on 1 July 2013. In other words, it is relatively new. During that time, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs has quarantined two host families. In addition, a further 14 cases are now pending against host parents. Of other measures introduced after the evaluation to prevent abuse and strengthen cultural exchanges, I would like to mention facilitating a faster transition between permits, reinforced information work, covering the return of the host family to the au pair, the adjusted amount of pocket money and language courses, the improvement of compliance with tax rules and the restriction of the personality that may become au pairs. If it turns out that these measures have not had the desired effect, I believe it is necessary to consider introducing new measures. As demonstrated by the Government Platform, the government of Solberg wants to continue its efforts towards social dumping. We must ensure that the aupair system is used for cultural exchanges and prevent abuse. Therefore, it is important for me to follow closely whether the measures implemented have the desired effect. Then it is important to stress that the kind of debate that the representative Mandt has raised in the Stortingssalen today is also an important contribution to keeping focus on the challenges that the aupairs can bring. At the same time, I think the interpellant has had a very balanced production, precisely because there are many advantages to the aupair system. It is difficult to say that the aupair system as such should be discontinued because there is abuse, but it is our job to facilitate that abuse should not occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e591	Thank you to the Council of State for a thorough review. Many of the au pairs come from poor countries, but we also see that from countries such as Spain and elsewhere in southern Europe, the scheme is used as a springboard to work in Norway. It is well and good, but it is also not in line with the intentions of the scheme, which should be cultural exchange. And once again, they're going to do a job that might be out of proportion to the pay, the contract or the arrangement as such. There is an investigation within the EU. It's going to be exciting to see what that investigation is coming up with. Then we can scale it up a little bit, what you might suggest of changes. In 2013, Au Pair Center had 350 enquiries. So far it's been 650 this year. It says that either more people dare to say, because the aid is more known – it started in 2013, and there have been good headlines in the media, on TV – or in the worst case, more people are being abused, or poorly treated. Of those who turn around, they from the Philippines are overrepresented. The distribution of power is crooked, because many of those who come are basically poor, and they're afraid to be sent home. They need money, and they accept a lot. We hear about issues where papers are seized by the host families, about renting out to other families or businesses, about sexual abuse and about work that is not close to easy housework. Luckily, we have the Au Pair Center, where they have lawyers to help with the roughest stories. A small parentheses – this is a centre that the Right and the Advance Party wanted to remove the support for in the budget, and one can question why. The question is how best to take care of au pairs if the rules are broken and there is a judgment. Who is responsible for caring for them, and how are we going to help them the best? I look forward to a good debate on a topic where I don't think we disagree very much on the purpose of the aupair system, but where we should discuss the different ways to make it the best possible, so that the young people who come get a good arrangement that cultural exchanges, both for themselves and for the host families.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e602	The interpellant was that also some European countries are now involved as – I had just said – the senders of au pairs. But as I mentioned in my post, it's still like this, in 2013 and 2014, at least, that 85 pst. of the au pairs coming, are Filipinos. Then Ukrainians, Vietnamese and Thais come, but they have an approx. 2 pst. share. So the overall proportion is Filipino au pairs coming to Norway. It helps to create some of the challenges that interpellant faced, dependency, the power situation between au pair and host family, to which we should pay particular attention. We're all very shaken when we see examples that show up in the media, if the ways the aupair system is abused. So sometimes it's abuse of it all, most seriously, combined with serious and serious crime. It is absolutely essential that we have both the competence and the insight to deal with that kind of situation. And the worrying thing is that the issues mentioned in the media are likely to represent the top of an iceberg, because these are issues that are complicated to come up with initially, precisely because the power relationship between the parties is as different as it is. At the same time, I want to maintain what I said in my post, and I believe that the interpellant also agrees, that there are a lot of people who enjoy and benefit from the aupair system, not least of those who come here to participate in this cultural exchange and are offered language training and follow-up. When the aupair system works as intended, it is a good arrangement. In addition to the aupair centre, several of the intermediary companies also offer services both to host families and to au pairs. There may be language offers, there may be own cultural exchanges and other follow-up offers on the way to the au pair, which also together contribute to, I think, strengthening the relationship and reducing the gap in power, for au pairs participating in these offers, will get a kind of community, some to be with, tell their stories to, and take advantage of each other's competence in this regard. So in addition to the job done by the aupair centre, which through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left is now guaranteed continued funding, there are also some offers implemented by the intermediary companies, which it is also important to bring with them in this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e613	I would like to take this opportunity to talk about the need for a safety net around both the host families and the au pairs coming to Norway. It brings me to the need for the aupair centre, which I am pleased to be included in the budget for 2015. The Aupair Centre was officially opened in January 2013 as one of several measures to ensure that the Aupair Scheme is used in accordance with its cultural exchange intention. Other measures, including those of the Council of State, which were taken to secure the scheme, included: that the au pair should not have children, that they should be able to move into the next host family after submitting the application to the police, that the host families should be able to pay for repatriation, and that there is a quarantine scheme for host families who abuse the scheme. None of these improvements have an effect in themselves if there is no instance to ensure that they are followed. The scheme is written in Norwegian. To pass this on to the au pairs translates, among other things. the aupair center this, posting it on its web and facebook pages and telling about it at its information meetings. Without this information, au pairs would have been unaware that the scheme exists at all. Then, in reality, the Storting has been involved in adopting a law that they would protect it from, not knowing that exists. Au Pair Center ensures that the au pairs get the rights they actually have, and without the center, the host families who abuse the scheme can do this without consequences for themselves. Neither do the host families who seek help and advice from the centre to make their stay the best possible for the au pair. Each year, the Au Pair Center must fight for its existence by ensuring that it is on the State budget and, after that, be involved in annual tendering procedures. As a political authority, we should at least ensure that funds are allocated to the State budget. One-year tenders are also a major challenge. This is about trust and competence built over time. The Centre will keep statistics and will be able to make recommendations on how the improvements in the aupair system should be done. Let's not shake it off with annual appropriations and uncertainties if they are at all on next year's budget. As long as the aupair system exists, with all the pitfalls and dilemmas that exist, we must allow the centre to receive a more long-term funding. Then we get, based on findings made over time, to look at the whole arrangement and whether it has its justification in our time. Some people think that the solutions are to put down the whole aupair system, but we live in the time of migration. If we put down the aupair system, other women and men are ready to wash, cook and care for children in many Norwegian homes. Several young people come from the outer borders of Europe, and without the aupair system and the Au Pair Center, they may have fewer rights than the au pairs have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e634	The world has changed considerably and is quite different now than it was when the aupair system was established in 1969. In particular, the migration picture has changed. We see that people from poorer parts of the world travel to richer countries looking for work and income. This also seems to be the case with the aupair system. There is nothing wrong in itself with people travelling to other parts of the world to get work and get income, but that was not the purpose of this system. In the last few years, there have been an average of between 2000 and 3000 au pairs in Norway, and the vast majority of them, some of them. 85 pst., is from the Philippines. Several surveys carried out over several years have shown that the vast majority of au pairs and host families view the relationship as an employment relationship. If the aupair system is to act as a cultural exchange, the system must be reviewed and reformed. Here we can look at a lot of pages that have been up in the debate until now, but I think it might also be a good idea to look at whether or not the work of the au pair can be reduced and their scope reduced, and whether or not monitoring of compliance with the work restrictions can be introduced. The limit between working time and leisure time may also be better clarified and ‘lighter housework’ can be defined more clearly. The threshold for reporting breaches of the conditions may be lowered from police level to supervisory level and the fee for changing the host family may be lowered or removed. The question is whether such changes would actually lead to a change in current practice, where the main motive is work, and work is done in private homes where no public authorities can or should have a full overview. In my opinion, it is therefore naïve to believe that the scheme can actually function as a cultural exchange as long as the motivation for both parties to the agreement is work, and one does not look at the basic framework of this scheme. I would therefore like to commend the interpellant for putting this topic on the agenda, so that we can get a discussion, a debate and not least changes in an arrangement that most of us believe can be very positive if it works according to the purposes it had. We can also look at experiences from our neighbouring countries, from other countries in Europe, which have completely different frameworks around this – much clearer defined frameworks around what is going on in cultural exchange. There we can learn a lot. It has been mentioned here, for example: language requirements and other things. I am not sure if we can fully implement everything from other countries here in Norway, but it is at least worth looking at it. When all the parties agree that this system can have positive sides, that it can be enriching both for us and for those who come to our country, I think we ought to debate it and look at how we can make changes, so that the system works according to how it was originally intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e651	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the inter-pellant and the Council of State for their good answers. I would also like to thank you for posts that have been held here before, and that have raised important points. It is not difficult to agree that the au pair scheme is initially a good one. But I think this interpellation is important and necessary to discuss the way further, because, as the Council of State says, there has been a decline in recent years. If I understood the council correctly, it's about. 1 200 applications granted this year, 85 pst. Of them are from the Philippines, and there are some questions raised. Today, the scheme acts more like an employment relationship and in many ways cheap labour than it does as a cultural exchange. The interpellant used the translation of au pair, which means ‘on equal footing’. There is no doubt that in those cases where the arrangement does not work, there is a very distorted relationship of power between the au pair and the host family. When I say this, at the same time, I would like to stress that fortunately, most families have au pairs, amazing families that take care of the au pair. Then we're also into a different system than the one that the aupair system was actually supposed to be, and unfortunately we've seen examples that haven't been good. I believe that we in this Chamber have a great responsibility for these people. As others have pointed out, the Au pair advisory centre had 350 enquiries in 2013, and so far this year they have had 650 enquiries. Now it's not from au pairs alone. It's from au pairs who wonder about things and ask important questions, but it's also from families who want to do things right. This is no indication that so many people are hurting. But we have seen many examples of social dumping, trafficking in human beings and gross exploitation – as the Council of State said. I've used this word before; I mean some of these live in slavery-like relationships. That is why I believe that there are good reasons to introduce stricter rules, and that is good reason for – as the representative Keshvari had in mind – to look at reducing the amount of work and perhaps giving au pairs more leisure time. This summer, the Advisory Centre was used as an argument by a State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice not to introduce stricter rules. Then it was proposed to remove the aid. Fortunately, this was maintained through the conciliation now, but anyway, I think it is important to take that debate. I note that the previous speakers are at peace with the system, but I think that is something we should not do. I do not think we should be at peace with the system and say that it should in any case continue. I think I'll get a little bit different there. I think we should take a discussion about the whole scheme, because if there is cultural exchange that is the point of the scheme, it does not work as intended today. We also know that cultural exchanges can be achieved today, for example. to come here and study, which will be fully possible for the vast majority of those who come to Norway. There is a system of high risk that there may be exploitation, because there is a great difference between the power relationship between the au pair and the host family, and you know you can get relatively cheap labour. When it comes to cultural exchange and most people come from one country, at least it shows me that there is not necessarily a scheme used by a lot of people around. Then I asked if it was right to have such a type of arrangement. I am pleased with the debate, and I am pleased that everyone will follow developments and want to assess stricter rules, and at least will ensure that no one is exploited. It can be seen that this does not apply to more than 1 200 people this year. After all, when we see that there is social dumping and trafficking in human beings, and that it is and a distorted relationship of power, I think there are good reasons to discuss the whole system. It is in any case I am willing to do, without having concluded – to clarify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e668	I think most of us are positive to the basic idea behind the aupair system. Au pair means as we know it on the same foot. The idea is that the scheme should give young people the opportunity to travel to another country to live with a family as a family member, benefit through childcare and assistance in the house, but first of all learn about culture and language and through this get the opportunity for positive self-development. The obligation to work in a house shall not exceed five hours a day. We are going back no further than until June 2013 since the aupair scheme was discussed in depth here in Stortinget. When we adopted the law to prevent abuse of au pair, and that if the host family violates the conditions given to grant au pair residence permits, a decision may be made that the family is given quarantine for one, two or five years in order to obtain a new aupair contract. I have listened with interest to the Council of State review of how the decision has been followed up, and we must note that the tightening has so far had limited significance. But it's been a short time, and it's too early to say whether this has been successful or not. The intention of the size was safer conditions and more rapid intervention if the regulation was not followed. I hope the Council of State will take the signals from the debate that the tightening of the law was done to contribute to a change. In my article on last year's debate, I stressed that the aupair system is positive when the assumptions are met, and I also believe that most people do. Many people have a good stay in Norway where au pairen is well integrated into the family, and where the exchange between work, education and leisure is as intended. The challenge is that the aupair system is undermined by a few who employ au pair to get domestic help for a cheap money and with low protection. In the worst cases, they may be subjected to assault. The Aupair Centre is important for both guidance, information, follow-up to the proper functioning of the Aupair System and to contribute to the detection of abuse or abuse. It would be sad if we had to scrape a good arrangement for international cultural and language exchanges because a few abuse the system, and because the authorities do not have the power to follow up well enough through the responses available in the law today. I hope we can be able to clean this up by actively following up the law that we have recently tightened up. If we fail to do so, there is clearly a need for further tightening and more stringent response possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e681	I want to thank the interpellant. It is a very important debate, also because we have just adopted a budget where the government has proposed to remove the service centre. I believe that is one of the smallest cuts that was in this budget. Now the representative of the Progress Party, Keshvari, was up and said that the arrangement had to be changed. And I fully agree with most of what he said, but the big change that the government has made is therefore to propose to remove the help offered to those who are exposed to this scheme. I have asked why they have done so, and I have been told that it is in line with the main objective of the government and for savings reasons. So in this difficult budget of billions of dollars, you've seen that you have to take away $3 million. NOK at a service centre for the au pairs, which everyone now describes, may be in a very exposed position. Yes, the Minister of Justice even says that he has been shaken by what he has heard, but he cannot have been particularly shaken when he agrees to remove the service centre and save money on some of the most vulnerable. The aupair system has removed itself from what it was supposed to be. I am in favour of the arrangement as it is, but without the service centre and more restrictions, we cannot keep it. There I agree with the Christian People's Party and also – clearly – the representative of the Progress Party. Unfortunately, the majority are now using the scheme as a purely domestic aid scheme. Not everyone abuses the system in the sense that they expose the au pairs to gross abuse, but there are too many of them as well. The service centre even reports that there may be cases of trafficking in human beings. And when you find relationships with human trafficking with a service center system, I have to say that I don't believe in the great concerns you have for this group. There's been a discussion if this isn't some kind of developmental aid. Some of the brokerage companies claim that. I have to say it's quite upsetting to hear that it's like that. If this is to be the case, we need to open up labour immigration, decent labour immigration, from these countries and for those who need to get into a different work situation. So what we have is a cultural exchange scheme that is being abused as a cheap home aid scheme. With regard to those who abuse the system at worst, I believe that even a 10-year quarantine period is not enough. If you do that, you can't have au pair anymore. It is said that many in our busy everyday life now need help in the house. I've been working and triple working my entire adult life, so I know what it's all about. But what I don't understand is that those with the highest wages pay so incredibly badly for the service and the help they need. If people are to have help at home, it's an honest thing, but then you get to hire people on a tarif, under normal conditions and with the freedom to live for themselves. Living at home with other people gives a huge bias in power and a crazy much bigger room for exploitation in all areas. Work is work whether you wash a hotel or a private home. Then you have to have the normal pay for it. People renting help into their homes also have to be employers. So this arrangement is overly mature for assessment. It's overly mature for assessment just because it's not what it looks like. SV is for an aupair scheme as it should be, namely a cultural exchange scheme. I think that's a very good thing, so we should have it. But if this is about getting cheap domestic and labour to the most prosperous families in Norway, we cannot continue to keep the scheme. Anyway, it'll take time before we get changes. I hear more people now making arrangements for different types of tightening, supervision and changes. It is SV for, but in the meantime we have to make sure that the service centre remains. And I get to say a thousand thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party that made sure that it came back in, because without it at least SV is totally against that we're going to keep the order.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e701	I thank you for a very good debate. My goal, as I started with, was to put the system on the agenda to create a debate for a better and more pure-bred system in which cultural exchange again is what is important, if we are to continue with the system. Once again, I would like to make it clear that many have good host families that will do the best and that meet the conditions with respect to the au pair. Many have positive experiences of their stay in Norway. That's the way it should be. But as I've been to, and as the representative Ropstad also said, in the most extreme cases, it tends to human trafficking and modern slavery. European au pairs register as immigrants and not as au pairs. That's why we also have some darkness here. The question is, as has been mentioned here: how are we going to cultivate that cultural exchange further? Clear guidelines, supervision and control could help. The consequences of misuse of the scheme are also important. Review of regulations to see if there is any other legal requirement should also be considered. It is important to further develop the provision provided by the Norwegian Folkehelp aupairsenter and, as the Council of State said, by others. I am very pleased with the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party on further support. I think that such a center and a support device around the au pair is very important. They're in a foreign country, they're committed to our rules and our moral principles, and they need help if they're being exploited – or to other things. The centre may detect conditions and assist further. It's just 5 pst. of those who come, who go through agencies. That's why the agencies reach quite a few. Unfortunately, I think there are too many people who are not yet in contact, and who do not have it very well. That's why we have the political responsibility to make sure that they have the opportunities to get help. We owe the system that we're doing it better. I also hope that we get common Nordic rules – state council, through the president – because if we don't get common Nordic rules, I think it's just moving the problem to the next country. I hope that the Council of State will talk to its colleagues in the Nordic region about this, and I will continue to work for it in the Nordic Council. I thank you again for a very good debate, and I hope that in the future we will find the good solutions, where we will have a good arrangement for those who will be au pairs in Norway and the Nordic countries, so that we can keep the arrangement as it was supposed to be, namely a cultural exchange on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e720	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. It turns out that the Storting largely agrees that the intentions behind the aupair system are good, and that everyone agrees that one must not accept that the scheme is being abused. In this way, it is important to get that kind of problem in Stortinget. Then it's quite obvious, as also the representative Keshvari had in mind, that cultural exchange is something other than washing and nurturing children. Detoxification and care of children is in a way the response to the cultural exchange. That means that it is the cultural exchange that stands in the main seat, and then those who take responsibility for ensuring that cultural exchange and ensure that they get to participate in Norwegian language and culture, get something back, as well as learning about au pair culture. So the whole point is that some of the host families have unfortunately misunderstood, is that it looks like they're looking at it so that it's the work that's the main intention of the scheme, while the cultural exchange gets as it comes. It is not acceptable, and therefore it is important that we now look at the measures that have already been implemented, having the effect that we want them to have. If they don't, we must, of course, make new changes. Then the representative, Ropstad, said that the cultural exchange was not working today. I think it's a little bit too bastant. In very many cases, it does, and I think maybe I dare say that in a large majority of cases it works, even though it's also being abused. But it's not – I think – an alternative for the group we're talking about here, to get similar cultural exchanges as students, for example. So, as I mentioned, 85 pst. Of those who come as au pairs, from the Philippines, and it is probably not an alternative for them to come to Norway as students to get a cultural exchange perspective that way. There's a little bit of other groups that it's relevant for. I think it's important that we have a system that allows people who come from quite poor countries to have the opportunity to get cultural exchanges on a slightly different footing than what a student can give them. There are many good measures that have come from the pulpit today, which are important, and which I will take with me in the further assessment of the need to implement further tightening of the aupair system. I think it is good to also bear in mind that the Stortinget as such believes that the aupair system has a good starting point. But it's important to make sure that we don't abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e747	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e754	It is a pleasure for me to be able to present you so as to say a unanimous vote on this matter. There's a debate that I think is going to be fine, but I still want to link some words to this. In my opinion, the unanimous attitude and the connection to the steps taken by the Food Safety Authority are a good, constructive and powerful signal from the whole of Stortinget that the need for the Food Safety Authority to be both competent and sufficiently rigged to ensure that the tasks assigned to the Food Safety Authority are taken into account, both for the purpose of checking the food we eat and for the purpose of caring for animal welfare are taken into account. Today's debate and, to a large extent, last year's debates related, among other things, to: food security is a very good response to the need to contribute – not just through increased funding – to the organisation of food surveillance that is so organized that the most resources are spent on supervision and control and being out, and at least in the case of bureaucracy and complaints. In this way, I am pleased with the grip that is now being done by the government, I believe that is absolutely right. It will not deprive us of the commitment we have in the budget rounds we are going to have in Stortingen to make sure that the Food Authority has sufficient resources. There I understand that we disagree, but we get to come back to that in the budget debate. This is a good example of the fact that, in addition to increasing resources for an important part of the public sector, it is absolutely important that we be able to straighten up public enterprises – here the Food Authority – in such a way that we use as much resources as possible on what gives the best possible effect, in an increasingly growing and important field. That is why an overall committee, and in my view, also a total increase, believes that this is absolutely necessary. I would like to add a few words to the changes that are now being made. The main change, according to my concepts, must be that one now goes from a three-institutional procedure to a two-institutional examination of the matters in the Food Safety Authority. I think that is quite right, and the restructuring that is now actually being carried out by the Regional Offices of the Food Authority should be an important tool for more force. This means that people who work in the Food Authority will be more involved in outreach activities, control, supervision, what really works, and that we get more rationality into the review process. The other good effect of this is that we are more able to achieve legal equality between the regional offices’ complaints — now there are five regional offices to deal with this — and that there are no major differences in how to assess it legally and how to assess it effectively, against the decisions to be taken by the Food Authority. It is my hope that this will contribute to better legal certainty, more legal equality, which is important in a field where we actually want more activity, and perhaps later more use of the most stringent coercive measures you can have at your disposal in the Food Authority. This gives me the opportunity to point out that we are also dealing here with the possible reactions, for example. the issue of a fee for the activity of companies in a more private context and not necessarily in a commercial context. I think that's a proper charging. The fact that you now also expand the possibilities of placing business candidates on the market, I think, is very important. It is a language that perhaps a good number of actors actually understand, that one is deprived of the ability to operate, and that that possibility is made effective, i.e. the fact that you cannot move to a neighbouring premises and operate the same establishment. With the changes now being made, the Food Safety Authority will have the opportunity to impose on business candidates also for those responsible in the establishment. I think that is absolutely necessary in order to prevent circumvention, and perhaps make one of the most important instruments – where there is a real breach of the provisions – a good sanction, so that this can be effective. This matter is unanimous on the part of the Economic and Social Committee, and I am delighted. There will be a clear signal to the Food Authority that this is a system for which there is broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e773	It is almost eleven years since the Food Authority was established. The creation of a single establishment by bringing together several state and local authorities has contributed to better supervision throughout the food chain. The government wants to facilitate simpler, more coherent and efficient management with better governance. As part of this, we want a simpler organisation of the Food Authority. More resources shall be used for supervisory purposes, less for administrative purposes. I Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2013–2014 was notified: ‘The work of the Food Safety Authority can be streamlined and organisational changes will be assessed.’ The Food Safety Authority has proposed the organisation of two levels of administration, the regions being one level and the head office the other. A new organisation of the Food Authority requires the amendment of Section 23 of the Food Act, which today requires the Food Authority to have three levels of administration. We are now proposing to amend the food law so that it does not bind the organization. This will allow the organisation of the Food Authority in line with social developments. The change opens the way for the organisation of food supervision at two levels of administration. We also propose amendments to the administrative provisions of the law on fees and instruments. The legislative amendment proposal was at the hearing on the deadline of 11 August 2014. I am pleased that the hearing bodies gave broad support to the proposal to abolish the statutory binding of the organisation of the Food Authority. I am pleased that there is also a broad consensus on this in the committee's position. Regions become the executive level of the Food Authority and will have as their primary task the oversight, prevention and management of events. The new regions will have the same tasks as the current regional and district offices, with the exception of appeal proceedings. The decisions of the Court of First Instance will be taken by the regions. The complaints will be dealt with by the head office. It facilitates a more efficient and consistent handling of complaints. It is added to change from today's eight regions to five regions. Fewer and more even regions are important to ensure strong professional environments in all parts of the country. This is a prerequisite for the proper prevention and management of events by the Food Authority. At the same time, it reduces the use of resources for administrative tasks and frees resources for supervisory purposes. The Regional Director shall be part of the exercise of supervision and shall have total professional competence in the region. This will facilitate job placements across the country. There will be no significant change in the local structure of the Food Authority. Food surveillance shall continue throughout the country and have good knowledge of local conditions in order to be clearly visible and solution-oriented in relation to individual activities. Since its establishment, food surveillance has seen the need for some changes in the provisions of the Food Law on fees and instruments. We propose to extend the home to charge a fee, so that a fee may also be charged by individuals doing private and non-commercial activities, e.g.: on the issue of certificates required for journeys by sport and pet animals. This implies that all persons who may be subject to the food law may be required to pay a fee in regulations. No hearing bodies had any comments. We propose to change the provision on business candidates in order to prevent them from circumventing. It shall also be possible to target the person responsible for an establishment, not only to the establishment itself. The proposal has been amended somewhat after consultation by, among others, from the Ministry of Justice and Defence. In the draft law that was sent to the hearing, we proposed a new provision on the infringement fee. Several hearing bodies were critical. The Government wants to further address the issue before proposals can be submitted to the Stortinget, and therefore does not now promote this proposal. I am pleased that there is support for this bill to facilitate simpler, efficient, modern and well visible food supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e799	I'm just taking the floor for a few brief comments, because it's an overall committee that is behind the decisions to be taken. We have been concerned by the local presence of the Food Authority from the Center Party, and we have, together with the Workers' Party, stressed that it can also be a solution with several local offices. A key task for the Food Authority is food safety — which lies in its name — but they also have a major role to play in animal welfare. In the context of the 2015 State Budget, the Party will propose to change the name of the Food and Animal Supervision Authority, in order to better reflect the activity of the Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e808	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e822	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e829	The government suggests changing the alcohol laws and opening the wine monopoly to keep stores open for Christmas, New Year's Eve, Easter and Pentecost. In addition, one suggests opening the hall of alcoholic beverages from the Vinmonopolet and grocery stores on referees and popular reconciliation days. The background to the ban on halls on certain days is that regulating the availability of alcoholic beverages is home to consumption, which in turn affects the extent of harm. Forbidden dates have both cultural and historical foundations. The government believes that the proposed changes will be marginal and may help to increase the dissolution of the monopoly system. A majority of the committee largely agrees with the government. The members of the Committee of the Right and the Advance Party support all government proposals on the amendment of alcohol laws. The members of the Committee, from the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and Left, are for the Government their proposals for new opening days, but with the exception of Christmas Eve, and propose this. A minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, are opposed to any proposals for changes in alcohol laws. That means there's a real plurality in the committee to maintain the ban on letting the Vinmonopole open on Christmas Eve. The majority stress that during Christmastime there is a need for extra protection. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have signalled in the vote that they will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left to secure the plurality of the connected wine monopoly on Christmas Eve. The centre party thinks there's no good reason to change the alcohol laws in this area. We believe that the argument for upholding today's law has not changed since 2012, when Stortinget last assessed this need. The overarching objective of alcohol laws, the law that the Storting will change today, is to limit the social and individual harms that alcohol use can entail and to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. The centre party believes that the liberalisation of opening hours is a mistake when we know that alcohol consumption has increased by 40 pst. the last 20 years. We believe that the argument that one of the care of the children must still have closed the Vinmonopolet Christmas Eve is important and correct, but we believe that this is as current New Year's Eve as the other evenings. Kids don't disappear in a week. The government itself writes in the listening note that such abstinence is linked to a high time and often long - term period, when we know that a lot of alcohol is consumed and where the need for protection is high. In particular, this applies to children and third parties. Thus, the government itself argues well for why you should not change the opening hours of the day. The centre batch will show that the background to the ban on halls on certain days is that it acts domestically on the consumption, which in turn affects the extent of the damage. We don't believe it's true that it's the proposed changes that determine whether or not the Vinmonopoly has confidence and upliftment in the population. User surveys show on the contrary that the Vinmonopoly today has a huge population boom. What threatens the wine monopoly today is not linked to the Easter night, but rather to the government's extensive liberalisation of the tax-free regime. The open wine monopoly in the evening has not been a requirement of the Vinmonopole itself. The centre party believes there is a need to underline the solemnity of the election act and the days of popular reconciliation, and believes that the prohibition we have today against selling alcohol these days should be maintained. This case shows that there are peoples who are driving a more liberal alcohol policy in Norway, not the people themselves. In addition to liberalising the opening hours of the Vinmonopolet, a proposal to liberalise the ban on advertising against alcohol has been made and tax-free quotas have been known to increase by 50 pst. in the revised national budget. The blue-blue government operates a gradual and piecemeal erosion of alcohol laws and the purpose of the law. I fear the public health consequences of the overall impact of these measures. I am sorry that the government has received support from Stortinget in this work. The central party is pleased that the Christian People's Party opposes the proposal of the government. We were amazed when the Christian People's Party defended the proposal last winter when it was sent to the audience. Today, we are united in the demand not to liberalise the opening hours of the Vinmonopoly at the feasts. I finally want to thank Paal-André Grinderud who did not give up. He had a silent protest outside the Storting in ours and moved the parties, so that today it is decided to maintain the ban on open poles on Christmas Eve. Finally, I would like to make the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e855	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e858	The wine monopoly is one of our main instruments of alcohol policy. But it is also responsible for giving the whole population access to quality products. The societal mission of the Wine Monopoly involves a challenging balance between two objectives that may appear to be contradictory, but the Wine Monopoly has been able to balance this well over 90 years. In the view of the Labour Party, it is essential for public health that the monopoly of wine remains a solid instrument in alcohol policy. Then it is also our responsibility to give room for further development of the pole and to provide good service to the residents. That the wine monopoly has closed on days when beer is allowed in grocery stores is a provision that has little professional and popular uprising. The Labour Party therefore supports the proposals to amend the law, but with the exception of Christmas Eve. Christmas is a special celebration, especially for children. We support the assessment of the Vinmonopolet not to push purchases of strong alcoholic beverages even closer to the Christmas celebration and thus help to increase the risk of alcohol abuse. Open wine monopoly on Christmas Eve has also not been recorded as a big wish in the population. Commercial considerations also suggest that the pole is closed on Christmas Eve. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that it is a majority that the pole is closed on Christmas Eve. Finally, we will assume that the implementation of any changes in the opening time of the Vinmonopole assumes that the social partners agree on a model of compensation for employees through negotiation. Finally, I address the proposal from the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e871	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e874	In line with our party programmes and according to what we promised our voters in the election campaign, today we are dealing with the government's proposal for changes to the alcohol law relating to opening days for the sale of alcoholic beverages. We are often challenged by the Workers' Party to keep our election promises or not. Today it is strictly the Workers' Party itself that breaks its own election program related to the issue of Christmas Eve. The monopoly on wine has a relatively strong position in the population, but it has not always been so. In the 1990s, the majority of Norwegian people wanted to put an end to the whole scheme. But now, according to studies carried out by TNS Gallup for the Vinmonopolet, it is 60 pst. That's good, because the Wine Monopoly is one of the main instruments we have in Norwegian alcohol policy, to limit high alcohol consumption and to reduce the damage and problems caused by alcohol use. There can be no doubt that we in the Right recognise the societal challenges of alcohol abuse. Nevertheless, it is important to be aware of what is needed to reduce the harmful alcohol consumption, either for the drinker or for the surrounding environment. The State Institute for Drug Research, Sirus, says in its report No. 6/2013 that the turnover of alcohol has increased by 48 pst. in the period 1993–08, but has declined somewhat since then, and that the increase has mainly occurred as a result of increased sales of wine. Previous population surveys have shown that there has been both an increase in the proportion of people drinking alcohol and in the proportion who drink relatively frequently, but the increase in drinking frequency has not been followed by a similar increase in the proportion who drink alcohol frequently. In the same report, SIRUS also states that the consumption of alcohol in the population is very uneven, and the tenth of the population who drink the most accounts for about half of the total alcohol consumption. To be absolutely honest, we don't believe that the opening hours of the wine monopoly are the factors that can help this tenth of the population drink less. Rather, we believe that opening up Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve, Easter Eve, Pentecost and Election Day is seen as small, but public-friendly measures that are necessary for modernisation and, in sum, contribute to maintaining a strong wine monopoly, well anchored in the population. These are simply minor adjustments to the framework conditions, which are perceived as sensible by consumers and which ensure a good and viable monopoly. That the pole can stay open, for example. Easter night and Pentecost will also allow us to take back part of the border trade. These two evenings are traditionally large trading days, and much of that trade is across national borders. During and after the consultation round on the legislative amendment proposal, we have experienced debates that highlight Christmas Eve in particular as an important symbol day to keep the wine monopoly closed. We think there might be reason to remember that it is not automatic that the monopoly of wine should be open on the days for which the bill facilitates, but that in the future there is an opening for this. There may also be other considerations, both human resources and business economics, that lead to pole sales, for example. will not be open on Christmas Eve. Christmas Eve is also the day of the year when opening hours are very restricted As you can see, it is difficult to see the great adverse effect of meeting open shop in Poland this day as well. It's no big and important thing for the Right that the majority today wants the Wine Monopoly to be closed on Christmas Eve, but it's important for us to keep the promise we gave to the voters. And when the pressure from the media debate comes, as it often does in such cases, it might be wise to take a step back and read the software you have chosen. In the right, we are selected on a batch program that has balanced that small adjustments in opening hours at the Vinmonopolet can be well balanced with a policy to create better services for faster and better help for addicts. But except in the case of Christmas Eve, the government gets a full impact on the bill today. There is reason to rejoice over it and wish the Vinmonopolet happiness for further in a very important work, which is also about being a modern, quality service provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e895	I will begin by giving first of all the Vinmonopole reward for the development that the Vinmonopole has had in recent years. The wine monopoly has evolved from being an enterprise where a lot of people felt that they had entered the door with the hat in their hand and were met by a large wooden desk, where they were allowed to ask the operator to go and pick up a bottle in a shelf behind them before they put it on the counter, before they could then bring the product in the famous Fouse bag when you were going home again, so that you would feel the extra burden of having been on the Vinmonopole. Today, the Vinmonopolet appears to be a real service company, with a highly qualified staff who knows their profession and advises us on what you would like to know about buying a bottle of wine for dinner, for example. The issue we have up to today is whether you should be able to keep open in the so-called evenings. It is advisable to be a majority of the government's proposals on all days, except Christmas Eve. Christmas Eve is then the day to save alcohol consumption in Norway, if you read the comments from, among other things. The working party in the configuration. That is what is decisive about whether it is harmful or not. It's kind of remarkable. But then a little to the representative Toppe, who in his post managed to misinform. I'm going to try to fix it in the representative Toppe said: the tax-free quota was not extended by 50 pst. in revised. It was about wine bottles. You can go from four to six bottles of wine if you don't bring cigarettes. Spirits are not affected by this, it is the wine quota which is being extended. For the Advancement Party, it is no disaster not to be allowed to be open on Christmas Eve. But the Advance Party has promised its voters to change the alcohol law, so that it will be possible to buy products from the Wine Monopoly in the same way that you can buy beer in the store, and there I have not heard any suggestions from the representative Toppe or other parties. On Christmas Eve it's quite possible to go shopping for beer, but you can't buy wine at the wine monopoly's outlets. The wine monopoly has limitations other than those of shops in the sale of beer. It's going to be interesting to follow these things forward and see if it's exactly this evening that makes the big deal. This is also about building up the wine monopoly and the wine monopoly system, because as consumers and customers we want to be able to buy a bottle of wine on these days as well. Very many people do, and many have given feedback about it. Of course, I accept that others have a different view than me in this matter. I think that's okay. Then we'll see if Christmas Eve is the decisive factor in whether alcohol consumption goes up or down in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e910	One of Norway’s main health problems and health challenges is increased alcohol consumption and abuse. Alcohol consumption has increased by about 25%. 40 pst. the last 20 years, says the Institute for Public Health in 2014. It creates challenges – it creates challenges for those who are struggling. And some of us who have lived near these, know that there is not only one who is struggling, but there is an entire family that is struggling. Therefore, this case is not only about being allowed to buy a bottle of wine in the evenings, but it is about those who live around those who are struggling, and it is all about those who have little kids. Increased availability there is no doubt about increasing consumption, and the majority use the argument that yes, we want it to be closed on Christmas Eve, because it's a special evening for the kids. Isn't it a special evening for the other holidays? The paradox is that the government itself writes in its consultation note that such evenings are linked to a celebration and long-term free, where consumption of alcohol is increasing, and where the need for protection is high, especially for children and third parties. This is written in the consultation note in all evenings. When the government writes it in its own consultation note, it's strange, however, that one at the same time says that we want to open up for all the evenings. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Center Party that one does not want a change in the law, as it is. What's the difference between this and what's the difference between two holidays in the Easter? Those who labor, then, are replenished, and those kids who have seen their father or mother drink on Thursday and on Friday, grunt at Easter night. They know they can get beer at the store, but even stronger things they know they can get on the pole. We who have lived near these kids know that this is a challenge. So someone from this pulpit says this is public friendly. I ask: Is it child-friendly, family-friendly and health-friendly? In addition, the government, with the support of the other parties, spends considerable resources on drug treatment, but none of us dare to bite the sour apple and say that we may have to do something at the other end too, to protect those who are struggling, and to bring down the alcohol we actually have. Blue Cross wrote the following to the Committee: «Blue Cross hopes that the Committee will see that the freedom from drinking and other alcohol-related problems will mean more for those affected than for those who lose their freedom to sell alcohol. This applies both to those affected but also to the economy of the country as it has not been demonstrated that the monopoly of wine will have the right income from such a change in law.’ That is why I am happy to be able to stand with the Central Party to vote against this bill, and I am also happy to be able to vote subsidiaryly so that we will actually be allowed to close Christmas Eve. But I see basically no difference in these nights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e928	Several have spoken of a large-scale liberalisation in the proposals for revised opening hours presented by the government here. For a liberal party, it is difficult to see that this appears to be a large-scale liberalisation. We talk about trust in people, and opening hours are about trust that people can manage their own lives. Then not everyone uses that trust. We're fully aware of that. We believe that there are other ways of working with trust – and living the good life – than regulating too much. This is also about trust in the Wine Monopoly, because we do not require the Wine Monopoly today to be open in four new holidays, or so-called evenings. This is about the fact that the wine monopoly can make adjustments to other trading activities and to the development of people's behaviour. Another thing that hasn't been mentioned here, except that we're facing a tax-free challenge, is that especially Easter night and Pentecost are days where there's a big trade leak to Sweden, which is probably a bigger challenge for many than increasing tax-free sales. So to what's about the Christmas Eve, where the left has turned a little bit along the way. We should honestly admit that it has made the impression that the pressure we have received from the outside is about Christmas as a special celebration for children. We really think that we have the benefit of having a debate on children and adults' behaviour and the concerns we should take when we associate with children and alcohol at the same time. In this way, we do not feel that we are defeating the government by not voting in favour of this very evening, but on the contrary that we are in favour of strengthening the position of the weak party in the social debate. So finally, a explanation of vote: Left votes for the Workers' Party and SV's proposal regarding §2-5 and §3-4, for just to protect Christmas Eve, but we do not vote for their proposal for §3-7, because we also believe that we will limit the sale of beer in grocery stores on Christmas night, which we do not support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e939	This has been a matter of considerable interest, and where there has been a great effort, I think, in order to direct the attention of the Stortinge to the many children who are struggling at festivals because parents have an alcohol consumption that affects the kids. We have chosen from SV's point of view to listen to the action that has taken place to protect Christmas Eve and to ensure that still closed poles on Christmas Eve. We have programmed that we wanted an opening for the wine monopoly to have been open in some of those evenings in connection with celebrations, and we have done so on the basis of an assessment that the best defence of restrictive alcohol policy is to ensure that the wine monopoly has a legitimacy and a popularity in the population that makes it not grow support for alternatives that will undermine the monopoly system. Then we think it makes sense to continue the course that we have had for a while now, where it has been developed wine monopoly several places in the country, and where we also adapt the opening hours to some extent to what people expect from other shops and other kinds of trade. But we mean it's a wise intermediate now to keep Christmas away. It is a special family celebration, it is an important signal from Stortinget to send as well, and we are therefore pleased that it appears that there can be support for the proposal that the Workers' Party and SV have promoted together in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e947	The main lines of the alcohol policy shall be fixed. This means that we must maintain the wine monopoly, the authorisation system, the age limits, high alcohol taxes and the advertising ban. At the same time, we will, and should, simplify and renew the alcohol legislation where it is needed, precisely in order to maintain a broad consensus on these important instruments of alcohol policy. One of the most important instruments is the wine monopoly system. In order to strengthen and maintain a strong monopoly, it is important for people to experience what they have just experienced with the Vinmonopolet, that it is a modern and service-oriented institution. We must also assess the need for changes and adaptations. I think many are surprised when they meet a closed door on the Vinmonopole, for example. on Pentecost night, which not everyone has an overview of when is. The ban on the sale of alcohol from the Vinmonopolet on Easter night, Pentecost evening, Christmas evening and New Year’s Eve and the ban on the sale of alcohol from the Vinmonopolet and the grocery stores on election days and the referendum days are prohibitions which appear unbridled to consumers. Therefore, the government has proposed to remove the bans so that the wine monopoly and the grocery stores can sell alcohol on the same days. The wine monopoly and the grocery stores should, in my opinion, decide for themselves whether they want to keep open these days. I agree with those who believe that it is solemnity on election days and referendums that should be underlined. However, I believe that the ban on the sale of alcohol these days is not a proper instrument – not least in view of the fact that we have arrangements today which imply that a large part of the voters vote in advance, and that the tipping points have in any case opened up these days. When it comes to Easter Eve, Pentecost, Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve, I am primarily looking for a simplification. I can't see that there are good reasons to have different rules on which days the grocery stores and the wine monopoly are going to be able to sell alcoholic beverages. Strong beverages are to be treated more stringently than weak drinks, but in my view this is adequately addressed with different age limits and the monopoly system for stronger drinks. There may also be many reasons why the monopoly of wine does not remain open for a few days. In order to ensure equal availability of the Vinmonopoly for all in the country, small sales have been made in locations with relatively low population base. In order for these shops to cover their own costs, they must have a limited opening time, and many of them therefore have not been open for more than a few days a week. Business and staff policy considerations may also lead to the monopoly of wine not to keep the night of Easter open, Pentecost, Christmas Eve and New Year's Eve and to keep open only a few of these days or to keep these days open in some shops. My point is that this decision should be with the Vinmonopoly and not with us as legislators. I have recorded that there is quite a broad consensus on changing the law as to the election days, Easter night, Pentecost evening and New Year's Eve, while the question of Christmas evening is more problematic. In principle, I believe that the law should open up in order for the Vinmonopolet to consider keeping an open Christmas Eve. It is also in line with what the two government parties promised the voters before the elections. However, I do not think it will have particularly practical consequences if Christmas is kept out. The wine monopoly has said that they consider it a little topical with open wine monopoly shops on Christmas Eve, and it is an assessment that I have a great understanding of. I also see that the reason for the majority is not that this will affect alcohol sales, but that someone wants to keep this as a symbol day for children who experience growing up in families with excessive alcohol consumption. I am pleased that, with these changes in the laws, we already after a little over a year in the government come to the goal of this simplification process and make the Vinmonopolet even more service-oriented and open to the public. Finally, I would like to point out that the Department is also working on a number of other issues in order to simplify and improve legislation. We're working on simplifying the alcohol advertising regulation, and we're making estimates of finding alternatives to today's four-year rule for sales and donations in municipalities. Furthermore, we are working on following up the proposal for a dot load system for infringements of the alcohol law. Finally, I have to say that it is correct that the proposal for a new section 3-7 will also entail a ban on the sale of beer in the store on Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e975	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e978	Of course, it was with children that I was going to bring up. Because it turns out, once we've taken this round, that 8 pst. children grow up in homes where at least one parent has alcohol challenges. We have listened to the recordings that have come from very many teams, including the Wine Monopoly, and we hear how important it is – and not just symbolically – simply to reduce the supply of alcohol by Christmastime. I perceived the Minister of Health so that he has also listened to those recordings, and that he really thinks it might be okay that it is still being closed on Christmas Eve. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e985	The proposal that I am making is, of course, a proposal that I am in favour of. My assessment is that it is the wine monopoly that is best suited to make this assessment, and I also find it unnatural to have a different proposal in principle regarding the wine monopoly than the shops. But now I register that the Workers' Party does not have the fundamental difference and also believe that there should not be beer sales on Christmas Eve, and then the arguments of the Workers' Party are of course strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e990	I would also like to ask whether the third paragraph of Section 3-7 should be replaced by the proposal from the SV and the Workers' Party, to which reference is made. Just so we have it clearly in this room: if it is adopted as it stands – because I may have a suspicion that the Workers' Party and SV were not necessarily fully aware of what they did when they promoted this proposal, but we now see it during the day – will this mean that all shops in Norway must close their beer sales on Christmas night so that beer cannot be delivered at all that day?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e995	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1000	We're in the middle of Christmas. There is no doubt that in a period of increased access, we also see increased consumption. It's an easy way to view it right now. According to the Swedish Institute of Public Health, what does the Council of State think about the increase in alcohol consumption by 40 pst? In the last 20 years, and what action will the Council of State take to reduce this consumption — in terms of health costs, for which he himself is responsible as a Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1007	I am concerned that the main lines of the alcohol policy are fixed, which is also part of the cooperation agreement that the government has with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Norway has probably one that can count as Europe's most stringent alcohol policy. I think that is right, precisely because of the circumstances that the representative points out. But I also believe that having such a strict alcohol policy is a contract with the voters, and with the population, that there is a limit to how far one can go in this kind of context, and that it must also be seen as reasonable for most people. In addition, I believe that we need to deal with these issues in areas other than just these instruments, because I fully agree that total alcohol consumption in Norway presents a significant public health challenge, and it represents not least a major challenge for those children growing up in families where one or more are addicted to alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1016	I note that the Council of State refers to the proposal as a ‘simplification process’. Alcohol consumption in Norway is increasing, and the purpose of the laws that we are changing today is precisely to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages. Then we experience that the government has a lot of suggestions, which are about to increase the tax-free quotas, which are about to change the rules for advertising, and now to liberalize the opening hours. So my question is, does the Council of State believe that these changes together will contribute to the objective of alcohol laws, simply to limit the consumption of alcoholic beverages? I believe the Council of State says it will not matter, but does he think that these measures will reduce the consumption of alcohol in society, which is actually the purpose of the laws adopted by the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1021	The purpose of the law is to have a well-regulated sale of alcohol in Norway to limit the consumption of alcohol. It is important, but it is also important to ensure that the strong instruments we have in Norway are built up, and the wine monopoly is one of the most important instruments. I believe that today's debate is quite historic, because today's debate – and also the vote by the Committee – shows that there is now a cross-political consensus in Norway on the importance of the wine monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument. It wouldn't have been if we as legislators had constantly allowed the Vinmonopole to follow in time. Then I am absolutely convinced that the discussion we had today was whether we should abolish the Vinmonopole as an order or an order. I think it's important sometimes to raise your eyes and look at those a little bit longer lines and not just look at the details of these kind of questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1028	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1034	Today, the Workers' Party is breaking its own program. Their programme states that the Workers' Party will: ‘Maintain the wine monopoly system and ensure the legitimacy of the scheme by amending the law so that the wine monopoly can be kept open on Christmas Eve, New Year’s Eve, Easter Eve and Pentecost, as well as on election day’. I suspect that this was written in their program a little inspired by the Right Program, which is quite similar in that area. So when the government is promoting a change in the law in line with our common programme, the Labour Party is voting against. One would believe they voted for the government's policy when it helped to fulfill the party's own program, but it's probably more important to show that they are able to form a different majority than to deliver what they went to elections on for once. Now it might not be the biggest thing in the world if the pole is open on Christmas Eve or one. Some political losses are easier to swallow than others. But I miss a good political reason that that very day is more stressful than the other evenings we agree to keep open. As I see it, both New Year's Eve and Easter are something a celebration with children and family, but here it's okay for the Workers' Party to keep the pole open. Now it also seems that the Workers' Party wants to close for beer sale on Christmas Eve in regular shops, so the Workers' Party has now become the party for several beer curtains. I am not sure whether the voters of the Workers' Party and SV agree with such a policy, which will therefore limit beer sales throughout the country on Christmas Eve. Then it's easier to understand the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, which I believe is taking a much more principled approach to this issue. They briefly disagree with keeping open several of these days and voting against everything. We believe that the main lines of Norwegian alcohol policy must be firm. One of the main instruments is the Vinmonopolet. Today's consumers appreciate that scheme, and the monopoly of wine today appears to be a trade with a strong identity, a serious profile and knowledge-rich employees. We will help to ensure the legitimacy of the system by changing the law, so that the monopoly of wine can be kept open on Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve, Easter Eve and Pentecost, as well as on election day. Today's voting will show that we get 80 pst. counting out for our vision. All children have the right to live in a carefree environment. Here, all adults have a responsibility, both the days of the wine monopoly and the days of the wine monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1061	I have some comments for some of the posts that have been. The representative stressed that this is not a requirement for the Vinmonopole to be open these days, but that it is a possibility. One thing that is not mentioned is that many of the wine monopolises are in the mall, where all the shops are required to have their opening hours in the mall. If it's not determined by law, like the Wine Monopoly today, that it can't have Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve and Easter Eve, they'll have to be open when they're in a center. So to the representative Nesvik, who makes a number that I have misinformed the Storting about the tax-free allowances, and he himself says that someone has expanded them. The point is, as everyone knows, that yes, one can exchange tax-free quotas for tobacco, but the result is that tax-free quotas for wine have increased by 50 pst. Furthermore, Nesvik says that he can well imagine buying a bottle of wine for Christmas. But this is not about Nesvik, me or others wanting to buy us a wine bottle for Christmas. This is about solidarity with the many for whom this is a major problem, in a situation and in a period of solemnity where we know that the need for protection is great, especially with regard to this third party, and especially with regard to children. We are not the business committee, it should be a belief when one hears the debate today. We are the Health Committee, and I have lacked a little more public health policy in the debate that has been going on today. Then we have a debate and, to the extent that there is a debate in the Chamber today on sections 3 to 7. Now the Labour Party has signed up for me, but at least I want to say – and the representatives of the Right also know – that I think it is a little unfair to use this against the Labour Party today when one knows that it was never the intention of the plural to close the beer hall on Christmas Eve – they were concerned that stronger drinks, i.e. spirits and wine, should not be allowed to sell from the Vinmonopolet's hall. We're now working on this. I had appreciated that the government party, if they knew this, had given a little message before and did not come into the debate and took this up as a big, big point, for the matter is too important for it. At least I'll underline that from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1074	It is remarkable that the representative of Stensland, the representative of Wilhelmsen Trøen and the representative of Nesvik are more concerned with the Workers' Party and our party programme than with their own – and the importance of this matter. For example, if you're going to start messing with party programs, and what you've said in the election campaign, you can do. wonder that the Right does not propose to extend the opening hours until 1 p.m. 22 for the sale of alcohol in shops, as stated in their batch programme, or as in the batch programme of the Progress Party, where it is proposed to liquidate the entire wine monopoly system – and throughout the election campaign, it was awarded ‘buttons’, where it said ‘oil is cheaper with FrP’. Now the truth is a little bit different, and the realities have well penetrated the Progress Party even after they came into government. Divorce on these days is not impossible for the Workers' Party. We're an open, listening and learning party all the time. We're making recordings, and it's not like if you've adopted something in the game program, it's stoned. There are democratic bodies, such as the United States and Japan. group meetings, and it may be dealt with by the national governments of the Workers' Party. The policy cannot be static; it must be constantly evolving. We believe that there is a difference between Christmas Eve and other days – and with a political justification. I believe it is important to have a strong day of selection. I also voted in favour of this at the National Labour Party meeting. I believe it is important to make it clear that there are differences in some days. I think it's an opinion among the Labour Party's voters, but also among the people out there, that there's a difference. Even if you celebrate and mark Easter Eve, there is a big difference between Christmas Eve and Easter Eve, and there is a significant difference between New Year’s Eve and Christmas Eve. To like one day when there are actually so many who are struggling, when there are so many who have an alcohol problem, and when so many children experience a lot they should never have experienced, I think I'm actually okay. When we get such a good and so clear input into it, the Workers' Party is actually pragmatic enough to change its position or change its meaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1083	I'm going to try to find out whether a majority in Stortinget wants to close the shops for the sale of beer on these days. That's not the meaning of the bulk of the population. I suggest that we draw a new section 2-5 and section 3-7 third paragraph, and then we are left with an alternative third paragraph. And we've discussed, in consultation with Storting's administration, that if one needs further clarifications of the law, it will come forward to second time. It is clearly the intention of the majority of the population that the change to be made, in addition to what the government has proposed, is that the words «and Christmas Eve» should be added to the third paragraph of Section 3-4 – i.e. that the monopoly of wine should have sales closed Sundays and holidays, May 1st and 17th and Christmas Eve. So we're sorry it got back and forth a little bit. I don't quite know what's happened here, to be completely honest, but if it's that way that more people have perceived this in the course of the discussion in the committee and have not given notice about it, I think it might be a little strange, but we'll take that on board. This has at least been the intention of the majority of the population. That leads me to a short comment at the end. Why is this important? I don't think we're going to exaggerate and think that alcohol consumption is going to go down sharply or that you're going to slow it down by holding the Wine Monopoly shut down Christmas night. I don't think that's coverage to say – at least not without further ado. What this debate has shown is that the power of words, the debate and popular commitment can contribute to its symbolic power. When people ask why the wine monopoly is closed on Christmas Eve, it's supposed to say that what the Storting wanted to say with it, was that one day a year it's supposed to have a discussion that there are many in this country who drink too much. It affects kids and families. That's why we think this is the main reason why the Wine Monopoly can still be closed on Christmas Eve, but the other proposals can go because a modern society needs to adapt institutions like the Wine Monopoly to a more modern time, where availability is an important point. That's why we're going to vote the way we do, and hope that things are clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1096	The President thanked for the clarification and took note of the changes that have now been made by Mr Micasen on behalf of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1099	It was at least good that the Workers' Party got cleaned up in a little of its own confusion. It's positive, so the law is passed as the Storting's intention was initially. The reason I took the floor was the representative Otterstad, who could teach us that the Labour Party had democratic processes. And the democratic process was that they had had a treatment in their big group, and found out there – and perhaps in the national government – that what their national meeting had decided was wrong. So this is what the Labour Party calls democratic processes. That is, their top organ can be over-tested by the bulk population. It's an interesting kind of party democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1106	It was the post to the Torgeir Micalen that made me take the floor. I concluded my post that all children have the right to live in a carefree environment. There's a responsibility for all adults. As for the days that the wine monopoly has closed and when they stay open, I think it's very special when the mica argues that you have to stay closed on Christmas Eve in order for us to have a day where we can reflect on the use of alcohol with our children. That argument is so out of the ordinary, and I just had to comment on it. I believe that if we are to discuss alcohol consumption, we need to get away from symbolism policy and into the real problems of alcohol policy and alcohol consumption. Then we have to take a look at border trade issues, smuggling issues and the whole picture. We can't let one day decide this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1113	We can take a discussion of realities. I am among those who believe that a sharp increase in the tax-free quota is, of course, a far greater contribution to the challenge of Norwegian alcohol policy than opening up some evenings. I'd like to admit that it's in the party program of the Workers' Party that we're going to be open all these evenings. But if there are any people who have voted in the Labour Party only for that reason, and who believe that this is a crucial and important matter in which we have failed, they get to call me, then I will explain to them why we have come to that position. I just want to remind you that there are many other things in which more of those who have had the word here should go a little bit quieter in the doors with regard to what is actually promised, and what is delivered – things of a far more serious nature than that wine monopoly actually still can't be kept open on Christmas Eve. But that's not why I took the word. For safety reasons: until voting, I think we say that it is only § 3-7 that we draw, and that we keep § 2-5 and § 3-4 from the minority in the recommendation, and then we need to find out until voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1122	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1125	Sometimes I wonder if the representative Torgeir Micaelsen has taken a little too much Møller's tran, because I think it was when the Workers' Party put in government that you really increased the tax-free quota you could bring, from two to four bottles of wine. I'm curious if the Torgeir Micasen can confirm or cancel it, because it was actually a percentage of a larger increase in the tax-free quota than what was done in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1131	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1145	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1152	The issue we are about to deal with now is about combating the too many cases of puncture defects we have in Norway today. The Health and Welfare Committee takes a very serious view of the high number of cases of this cancer. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to begin by thanking you for a good and thorough examination of the Committee and for all the good input we received at the hearing. As the President is probably aware, this is a matter of disagreement within the Committee as to whether the measures promoted in the proposal for a representative to combat puncture disease are the right way to go. I will therefore use my allocated time to explain the majority's views on this matter. The majority consider it important both to prevent, so that fewer individuals and relatives are affected by the disease, and to develop good treatments that can reduce the number of deaths and lead to a healthy number of people after treatment of pectoris. The proposals for the Workers' Party include, inter alia: introducing requirements for operation in solar studios. This is the opinion of the Progress Party, and the majority of the Committee is an unnecessarily burdensome requirement for industry. We do not support a proposal on this. A control requirement is likely to contribute to the reduction of many actors. I don't think the Workers' Party will succeed in preventing the population from using solarium through increased regulation. I fear, on the other hand, that we will then have a journey back in time for the time when people split and split into their own private suns, which will be completely beyond our ability to influence choices, and not least the important knowledge dissemination that many solarians provide to their customers today. I would also like to remind you of the 2014 cancer association's solar examination among young people, carried out by TNS Gallup, which made the following main findings: 9 out of 10 young people under the age of 25 say they get sunburned every year outdoors. Only 2 pst. of those under 25 years they say they've ever been burned in solarium. Only 16 pst. have used solarium six times or more in the last year. Only 7 pst. used solarium ten times or more. So it is not sunbathing in solarium that is the main reason young people get sunburned. In order to prevent this, the population needs to have a general knowledge of how to sunbathe, and not just the danger of excessive solar use. I am concerned that more people get good information about sunlight, sunlight and the consequences it can have for health. I am concerned that employees in solar studios have knowledge and provide correct customer information about unwealthy solar use and about the dangers of too much solar radiation. But there are smarter solutions to deal with this than a costly control requirement. That is why I am pleased that the government and the health minister have had alternative proposals to ensure sound sunning in solariums out at the hearing. The State's radiation protection system has explored different solutions, which have been asked of the hearing bodies to decide. I record that the Health Directorate supports the government's proposal to abolish the control requirement for solariums. I am also aware that the tanning process itself calls for stricter regulation of its own industry. They want an authorisation and competence requirement to operate solarium. This shall be done by the knowledge of the hazards of excessive sunning by those operating solariums and that they have no stronger rays in the solariums than is permitted. The industry is also favourably placed to introduce a solar levy in order to finance more extensive industry supervision. The majority of the Committee considers that the development of the tanning process itself is positive. We're going to keep working to reduce the number of people who are being spotted through the dissemination of knowledge in the population. We will continue to work to ensure that cancer patients receive innovative and effective treatment, tailored to the individual patient. The Progress Party and the Government are well in developing the patient’s health service, as part of this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1195	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his good and thorough work. Pistachios is one of the cancers that can really be prevented. It is we – sunny Norway – and Australia that are at the top of this incidence. It's quite amazing that 1,500 out of 1700 cases are preventable every year. We in the Workers' Party believe that the health status of young people and young people's high rates within this cancer plays such an important role that we will go to work more drastically than any other party. We were about what you promised, and what you've gone to elections on. It is gratifying that after the election several lots have ended up around the age limit and now agree that this should be the case. It is therefore strange to hear Mr Wold's reasoning that he is afraid that more people are going to split up on the sun, that 18-year-olds' age limit will be respected. Then he has to be to remove the 18-year-old age limit, because the reality must be that it's under 18 that splatters on the suns. It's not that because you put the operation on solarium, they're over 18 chased. This will lead to better guidance, good guidance on proper sunning, prevention, and time-to-time tailored to each individual, because we're all very different. The work we've done in the committee now and the facts we've collected show that about 40 pst. has any type of operation. Once again, in substance, number two from the Health Committee, the business perspective is being used in such an important and crucial case to prevent cancer, which is so serious for the individual, for the family and for those affected. It's not incomprehensible to me, but it seems a little strange. It would also be, if you look at the nutritional aspect of this, to punish those responsible not to impose on smaller players the same requirements and the same rules of play as those who actually have the service, and those who provide their employees training, not only in hygiene. We've been talking about infectious diseases in the last few days, and the Minister of Health has discussed the importance of good hygiene on the radio up to several times and also giving good advice to each one. Finally, I would just like to stress that we in the Workers' Party have put 110 million into our alternative budget. Ipilimumab, because we believe that it is not fair as it is today. It's wrong to say that it's not fair, but we're skeptical about the total costs and are afraid that they can exceed the estimates, and that it'll be very expensive when they're added as part of the total increase within the hospital framework. That's why we've invested 110 million. kr extra, in addition to the large increase we have in health care every year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1208	Would the representative, Mr Otterstad, perhaps take up the proposals put forward by the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1211	I'd love to, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1216	The representative of Audun Otterstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1219	Norway is one of the world’s most pectoral countries. It's a disease that dies more than in traffic every year. It's a type of cancer that we both know the causes of, and we can do something to get fewer cases of. Some believe that solar control requirements are one of these. I think the most important thing is changes of attitude, proper use of sunscreen and more moderation in the use of sunscreen and solarium. Both Sweden and Denmark have rejected operating requirements due to negative impacts on industry and public health. Proper use of approved solarium and associated increased vitamin D levels may also be beneficial for public health. I have stolen this from a statement by the National Government of the Young Left. 40 pst. the population uses solarium once or more times during the year. The risk of excessive sun exposure could be increased by a control requirement, as an increase in the purchase of sun loungers for private use is to be expected. It will be the quick option when the local solar system has to shut down. This is not about industrial policy – it is about the harsh realities of life. If it's not a solarium where you live, because it's closed because of it. a control requirement, the solution is to purchase its own. Then it is touching to hear the concern of the Workers' Party for Ipilimumab – there are also other means that may be even more effective. We can't lock ourselves to what came a couple of years ago, but it's nice that they prioritize Ipilimumab. There are also several other substances on the market, so we must not just talk about it. The Nordics most can't get enough of the sun and heat. It's okay – if you look out of the window now, it's not that hard to understand. With winter bleaching skin, many Norwegians throw themselves down on the beach in the South or go long skiing in strong high mountain sun. In addition, someone chooses to take solarium. It's raised beyond doubt that solarium is useful and provides well-being for most people who use it. But in the case of both sunbathing and solarium, some people are exaggerating. The main measure against excessive sun exposure and solar use is good information and common sense. Together with the sunscreen, we need to find good solutions for solar access control. But a demand for service will mean the hook on the door for many solariums, and we believe that this can lead to more people taking care of themselves in their own way. It is better to use resources to create better attitudes, provide more information and better supervision of the industry. As in many other sectors, there are actors here who are unprofessional. Also in the tanning of the sun, there is room for stronger self-justice. But we have come to the conclusion that control requirements are not the most important thing in the fight against cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1232	For the Left, it is important to point out that the important measure to reduce the number of spots in Norway is information and knowledge of how to sunbathe in general. Protection is important, and that's what can mean that we don't occupy the top position in the world in terms of foe spots. Therefore, it is far more important to focus on it than to impose the sunscreen, which, after all, is so few involved, and which, especially young people, uses a burdensome restriction by having a manning requirement. It is also true that especially some of the small solariums have a kind of service today that is co-located with other services around in Building Norway, such as hairdressing salons and others. So here it's important to put in place a much better information about the consequences of sunning and the need to use protection. Here, as politicians, we should also be more open to assist the Cancer Association and other voluntary actors and organisations in obtaining information. Similarly, we see how important the Red Cross job is to recruit blood donors, and it benefits the public. In the same way, we can do a lot here by strengthening the information activities that volunteer organisations and patient organisations contribute to those at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1239	First, I would like to thank the proposers for making more good proposals and raising a very important issue. The number of pectoris cases in Norway is very high. We need to know more about why, and we need to strengthen our research efforts. It's still such that despite many years of mind-building work, with high attention around the sun, we see that there are many who do not protect themselves well enough. It is true that this is a form of cancer where prevention can be made easier than for many other types of cancer. I am glad that in this setting, there is now a broad consensus around the 18-year limit that the previous government introduced, linked to solariums. But we have come to the conclusion from the SV that we will not support the Workers' Party's proposal to introduce operating requirements. We note that the Health Directorate also supports the government's proposal not to go further with that requirement. After an assessment of this, we have come to the conclusion that we believe such a control requirement is to go too far in relation to what is effective in combating cancer and ensuring the rational use of solarium. It's about taking care to regulate more than what's necessary, not do more than what we think has significant effect. Then we're also going to take care of how we use our workforce, and what kind of work tasks we as a magnificent demand that people do. In addition, I think that the government parties have a point related to the difference it will be if we have solariums that in the future will hopefully be better regulated than today, than if we introduce regulations that lead to solariums going over the end and there will be more solarium on – let's say – home base in the future. That is why we believe it is important that the government looks at other procedures to strengthen regulation and maintain the age limit that we all now agree on. In other words, SV will agree with the government parties and the Left in voting on proposal No. 1 and 2 today. Then I see that there is a slight confusion in the setting related to the proposals No. Four and five. SV shall vote in favour of both proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 5, together with the Workers' Party and the Center Party. I would say I am amazed that it is not possible to get support from the civil parties, both in government and outside, in relation to important proposals for a research strategy and get a proper investigation into why we have not come any further in the fight against this cancer. I hope there is something the Minister of Health will still take with him, even if those proposals seem to fall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1250	Norway, together with Australia, is at the peak in terms of the incidence of feces. We're the highest in the Nordic region, 350 die from this cancer every year. At the same time, experts say that we could have prevented about 90 pst. of this. Solarium is one of many foe spotting challenges. People sometimes use a lot of solarium, and we in the Christian People's Party are happy that the age limit is set at 18. But we know that it's vanity, that the requirement for brownness is great, and a lot of people want to take solarium before they're 18, even though it's the age limit. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports the desire to have a system that ensures that there is control, and that you get younger people not to take solarium, precisely because it destroys the skin most, and because the consequences are greatest. In addition, the Christian People's Party believes that the quality of Norwegian solariums must continue to be properly monitored, that the fluorescent tubes are both straight and strong enough, that they meet the requirements, and that the requirements for hygiene and cleanliness in the solarium should be ensured. But most of all, it's about the strength of the fluorescent tubes. What we know is that in many places people have been burned, precisely because the control has not been good enough with regard to the quality of the fluorescent tubes. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to support the control of the crew, that one is over 18 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1262	Every year, more than 1,700 Nordics suffer from foe spotting, and more than 350 die every year from this skin cancer. Norway is at the top of the world when it comes to the mortality of feces, and significantly higher than the rest of the Nordic region. It is suggested that up to 90 pst. of all pectoris cases in Norway may be prevented. It is the most common form of cancer among women aged 15 to 24 years and between 25 and 49 years and among men aged 25 to 49 years. Women also have a higher incidence than men. I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Working Party for making this proposal, because it is a very important health issue. We know that there have been regulations in this area in recent years to ensure better prevention. The introduction of 18-year-olds and anti-fouling requirements was introduced by the red-green government. ‘Hello, Mrs. Solariumspoliti – don’t you have other important tasks as Minister of Health?’ wrote Siv Jensen about Minister of Health Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen on Facebook that time. No, I think that one should not have as many important tasks as the Minister of Health as preventing disease and preventing cancer. Femoral effusion is a cancer with good prognosis if it is detected early, but if it is late, the prognosis is not good. I am glad that the blue-blue government and Siv Jensen do not go in to remove the 18-year age limit for solarium. I thought that was very good. The introduction of an 18-year limit was an important signal effect for parents, including to increase awareness of the health risks of solarium use. I would like to remind you of the background for the introduction of this 18 year limit. It was that there was a large increase in the use of solarium in the young population. According to figures collected by the Cancer Association in cooperation with the State Radiation Protection Agency, the increase was over a five-year period of 20 pst. Among the girls who had benefited from solarium, one in four had begun before they were 15. Nearer 80 pst. Of the girls who took solarium, they had begun before they were 18. Research shows that solar use increases the risk of foetotoxicity, especially when starting in early childhood and with prolonged and frequent use. One assumes that the use of solarium before 35 years increases the risk of malignant melanoma, i.e. pectoris, by 75 pst. The World Health Organisation has placed solarium on the list of the most carcinogenic substances. A cleaning-up in the tan is also necessary. It's about to happen. I believe that the introduction of the 18 year limit and the requirement for competent ignition is absolutely necessary in order to contribute to it. There has been a discussion about the ignition requirement, and the government proposes to change this. It also has a hearing case about it. Many parties are now signalling support to deviate from the irrigation requirement, and I do not think that is good. In addition to controlling the age limit, the equipment must also be responsible for operating, maintaining and hygiene procedures and for solar devices for those who use solarium. I see the 18-year-old age limit and retention requirements as two aspects of the same case, and two actions that together will contribute to the prevention of unfortunate sunbathing. The Labour Party has proposed five proposals and the Central Party will support all the proposals in the vote. I would then assume that we get one case back from the government. Perhaps the Council of State may say whether or not this is only done in the event of a change in regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1288	I share the Committee’s concern about the high number of cases of pectoral cortex in Norway. Preventive measures are important and, like the Committee, I am concerned that the population is provided with good information about the sun and solarium and about the consequences of excessive sun exposure. Most of the sun is located elsewhere than in the solarium. It is particularly important that children and young people are cared for. The 18-year limit for solarium is therefore a measure to prevent the occurrence of pectoris in the young population. In order to ensure good regulation, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has, at the hearing, had a proposal to abolish the control requirement for solariums and to require a satisfactory age control system. In a short time, the government will handle the matter. The consultation note also proposes a general obligation to provide guidance and a mandatory knowledge test for the person responsible for the day-to-day operation of the solar centre, as well as for employees with customer contact. I agree with the view of the majority of the committee that the staffing requirement is an unnecessarily burdensome requirement for the industry. If the operating requirement is deleted, several hearing bodies are also positive to the proposed alternative solutions to operating requirements. Together with increased competence in the industry and improved information, I believe that this solution will provide proper enforcement of the age limit and thus also provide satisfactory guidance. As the majority of the Committee refers to, the operating requirement is not necessary for the control of the industry. Both municipalities and Staten Radiation Protection supervise solar activity. I note that the Committee wants Norway to be the leader in cancer treatment, and shares the views of the proposers, that clinical research and trial treatment are important in order to ensure a good treatment provision. The Government Platform notes that the government will strengthen medical research and ensure both better funding and increased access to tried and tested treatment. The government's objectives for clinical research and trial treatment are followed up in several stages. Clinical treatment is one of the areas of focus in the National Research and Innovation Strategy for Health and Care, Health Care 21, and the notified call for drug policy will address clinical research and experimental treatment, including emphasis on the development and testing of new medicinal products. It is important that both treatment and information to the population are knowledge-based. A positive contribution to this, to which the Committee also refers, is the public health institute's knowledge summary on pectoris, which will be available by the end of the year. Furthermore, since January, Health South-East has conducted the five-year research study on the new Ipilimumab medicinal product for the treatment of pectoris with dispersal. In October, the Regional Health Enterprises Decision Forum on New Methods decided that the medicinal product should continue to be used in patients with pectoris spread until the results of the methodological assessment are available. Norway is currently on the world top in terms of femoral mortality, and I agree with the Committee that it is important both to prevent and develop good treatments. I aim to contribute to an increased focus on the health risk of excessive sunning and what it involves, without depriving people of the joy of staying in the sun. Information and knowledge dissemination must be targeted to achieve all the different risk groups. Children and young people are particularly vulnerable to the negative effects of solar radiation, and I join the Committee, that particular information to children must be easily accessible and easily understandable. Preventive measures and good information are important for the control of pectoris. With, inter alia: I believe that regulation of solar activities, knowledge summary and research studies contribute to better knowledge dissemination and awareness raising in the population, as well as a better basis for good treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1309	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1312	Today, the majority vote, consisting of, among others, The Right and Advance Party, down the Workers' Party's proposal for an investigation into more research and a strategy to prevent, to change attitudes and to reduce the mortality of feces. It is close to interpreting it there that the Health Minister and these parties have a strategy and have more than enough knowledge of the matter. For this reason, my question to the Minister of Health is: What is the best preventive measure to prevent spotting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1319	The representative will probably experience that the government parties and the cooperation parties will regularly vote for good proposals in the Stortinget promoted by the opposition, precisely because the government is doing a good job of much of what is proposed, and therefore does not see the need to vote for proposals in the Stortinget which have already been taken care of by other work undertaken by the government. The objective of combating, reducing and driving public health work on cancer is also part of a national cancer strategy, which this government has decided to follow up with its own action plan, which the Directorate is now working on. It's important to provide information, and just as far as the representative's questions are concerned, I think one of the most important things we can do is to provide the public with good information about the importance of using sunscreen. This state council is in general for people to avoid becoming red. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1328	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. 19 of the 23 actors who submitted comments at the hearing to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, said, inter alia: that they were in favour of the requirement to operate. There were actors like the Cancer Association, the Medical Association, three out of four hospitals and the LO, to name a few. When other measures have been highlighted in this debate – the Minister for Health himself also said that several of these actors were positive about other measures – can the Minister of Health mention three concrete measures for me, which he will give priority to instead of the manning requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1335	Here you can see that the process has led to different parties taking different new positions, and I think we have found a good balance here. The party I represent was against both the age limit and the staffing requirement. When are we at the age limit, but against the manning requirement? SV was for both, but they now agree with us. I think we have found a good balance in this, while proposing good, alternative measures to control the age limit. I believe that in a modern society it must be possible to see whether there are other ways to control the age of people than to have people present to take care of. I think the representative Lysbakken had a very good post, where he pointed out that as politicians we sometimes have to balance the measures we put in, the consequences of them, against effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1340	I would first like to thank the Council of State for turning the question of age limit and now supporting the 18-year age limit. I thought that was very nice. So not only should control age, but the intention was to ensure the quality of the supply. But now the municipalities are responsible for controlling solaria, that they have good enough quality. Then it turns out that the control from the municipalities is miserable. A nationwide oversight carried out by the State Health Authority in 2012 showed that 77 p.m. solaria had higher UV radiation than permitted, and only 36 pst. of solaria provided correct information about proper sunning habits to the customers. This I think is quite serious. What will the Council of State do to ensure better control of solaria by municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1347	It is proposed, inter alia, in the draft opinion. competence requirements that will be relevant here. Then it is that both the municipalities and the State's radiation protection are supervising and controlling the solar activity, and the supervision, which the representative himself pointed out in his question, shows that it is also carried out by others. So it'll be the most important tool here. The industry, of course, has a responsibility through its organisations to take care of its own reputation in this area, but there are already two public bodies that have a dedicated supervisory authority related to this, both to the municipalities and to the State's radiation protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1352	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1366	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1373	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a thorough examination of this matter and saying that Norwegian health professionals have a high quality and ethical standard. It is therefore important to underline in the outset that we have a high level of confidence in health workers in the Grand Duchy, who every day do a very important job for the individual patient and for society as a whole. We have and will continue to have a public health service that provides a wide and comprehensive health service to the population. At the same time, private and non-profit actors have been an important complement, which has also helped to strengthen public supply. In particular, we have seen this in the field of mental health protection and drug treatment. We need to strengthen the treatment capacity in healthcare, as new knowledge and changing needs in the population take place. It involves increased efforts on public health services as well as on the organisation of ideal and private actors. Increasing levels of private and non-profit actors require coordination and cooperation, as well as greater vigilance with regard to beekeeping and potential conflicts of viability. We must not be blind in order that there may be instability conflicts, and that situations may arise in which the patient's consideration does not take precedence over other interests. Furthermore, we need to pay attention to the challenges of loyalty conflicts for health professionals related to both public and private actors. It is therefore both important and necessary that regional enterprises have developed and implemented comprehensive guidelines and systems for consistent reporting and control of the beekeeping of employees. Undertakings also report on this in the annual notifications, which are important for transparency and to allow for control. However, there is reason to listen to the Norwegian Medical Association, which, in its opinion, states that doctors also have ethical and legal obligations today to provide information on existing public offers, and that otherwise the issue should be addressed locally, according to company guidelines. We must have basic confidence that both doctors and other health professionals have a high ethical standard, and that they take care of the patient first. The majority, of which the Left is a part, believe that beekeeping challenges and potential viability conflicts are otherwise addressed through enterprise policies and systems. We also expect companies to follow this up in contracts with private and non-profit actors. The Committee then agrees that it is important to facilitate the provision of necessary information to patients on both rights and available public treatment services. In order for freedom of choice and opportunity to be effective, it is essential to have insight into the options and what they involve. The health community has great confidence in the population, and this trust must be well managed. The patient should be assured that he/she is provided with sufficient information to enable him/her to make an informed choice between any treatment options. Therefore, regional health establishments are also required to provide good and comprehensible information on free hospital choice through the mission documents. Informative and easily accessible websites are important, and other general information activities. However, in order for freedom of choice to become a reality for all, the doctor plays a crucial role. For many, the doctor’s advice will be absolutely essential, and it is therefore important that the doctor is aware of his decisive role in talking to the patient. In this context, health professionals clearly have an important role to play in facilitating the provision of thorough and good information, as well as in making it clear what expectations they have for doctors and others who provide patients with information on what alternatives exist and what they involve in terms of both waiting time and costs. Patients have confidence in health services and it is important that they are cared for. But it cannot be adopted, it must be earned. Then I would like to add: this with a mix of roles we can also discuss up against sense of role, and I feel a sense of a lack of something underlying here, that one will cultivate a debate on privatisation in the health sector. To the Workers' Party, which has introduced the concept of health enterprises and the corporate reform. From a decade’s perspective, it is not easy to say that it has also contributed to a smaller mix of roles or an increased understanding of the role of health services. With regard to the educational responsibilities of the enterprises, a responsibility that the counties held very well, the enterprises may have run a little from it or not taken it seriously, especially in the case of the training of specialists. So there are many debates in the debate here that are important to address. I also dare to recall the Committee's visit to Australia, where one saw that 30 pst. by the actors in the hospital treatment were private, and we have a room to discuss there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1403	Is it okay for health care professionals in public hospitals to see the same patients and patient groups at their private commercial clinic in the evening for which they are responsible in the daytime? I have come to the conclusion that the answer to this essentially must be no. That is why, through this proposal for a representative, the Labour Party has made several proposals that we are discussing in Stortinget today, with a view to getting even clearer rules in the Norwegian healthcare system regarding potential conflicts of interest and ambiguity about roles. I was going to say it anyway, but since the case rapporteur, Kjeseth, also touches on the topic, let me make it clear once and for all: I believe – and the Labour Party believes – that a variety of actors in Norwegian healthcare are positive for patients and for society. For the benefit of patients, we should have a pragmatic relationship with the use of different actors in the Norwegian healthcare system — including private ones. But it is important to be aware that in this interaction there may also be confusion about roles and potential conflicts of interest. As the rapporteur pointed out, I am of course also aware that the different regional health companies have established reporting and control policies and systems, including: of employees’ beekeeping. At the same time, we know that there are examples where this is not practiced to a large extent. In 2013, therefore, the Stoltenberg II Government addressed the issue and decided at the Enterprise Meeting in January 2013 that regional health businesses should ensure that the procedures for beekeeping are followed and reported, as well as a number of other factors. That is why I believe it is natural that we are now following this up through proposals and debates in the Grand Duchy. There may be different variants of potential role opposites we should be aware of. Firstly, the private sector can refer patients into the public health service for further treatment and vice versa. Time-limits in public hospitals could lead to patients being referred to healthcare professionals in private institutions that have framework agreements with public hospitals, via HELFO. If the same health professionals work in the public hospital with a breach of deadlines, there may be a lack of clarity about roles or suspicions of conflicting interests that are not lucky, either for patients or for an effective use of society’s resources. There may also be confusion and misunderstandings about roles when some private institutions have a public agreement, at the same time as they sell similar services to patients who pay themselves. Although we have good rules in this area, unfortunately, it sometimes shows up examples of the opposite. That is why we have put forward the proposal for a representative which contains several elements. One element is the obligation and right of patients to understand what alternative public funded schemes exist if there is waiting time, for example: in the hospital to which reference is most likely to be made. We therefore believe that patients who can prove that they have not received good enough information, who then move on to a private institution, for example, and who are being operated or receiving treatment that is expensive, and who pay it themselves, should be able to come back and, if necessary, claim compensation. It is difficult to live with the fact that we have examples where there is a long waiting time for the hospital nearby, and that patients have chosen and had to pay for it themselves, as a result of poor information, while free hospital choices, for example, are being made. could travel to another place in the country and have it carried out after a short wait, without paying for it. Finally, I would like to stress again, of course, that I believe that Norwegian health professionals have a high ethical standard, that I trust that everyone who works in healthcare has the best interests of patients as their primary goal. This does not mean that we should not have clearer rules in that field; it can also provide employees with protection against suspicion of a mix of roles. Then I record that especially the government parties believe that most of it should be like today and be followed up in that way, despite having sent them to the hearing and will make proposals for a reform that, in the view of many people, can help to increase the presence of this issue in the years to come. I ask the government to pay particular attention to that. I address the proposals that the Labour Party is promoting alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1424	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1427	The working party is concerned that dilemmas may arise when some employees — in particular medical specialists — work in public hospitals and for private contractors at the same time. A number of proposals are being promoted to regulate and control this. In August, the Health and Welfare Committee on Study Tours in Australia, a country with a high health stake, health, information technology and, in particular, research. We got to visit one of Australia's newest university hospitals. During the visit we were told that it was set by an empty space for a private hospital. We were wondering why they built a private hospital next to the public. Well, that's because you wanted to attract skills, because both specialist doctors, laboratory staff and nurses would like to work outside the public hospital in their spare time. To facilitate this, they thought of it as a recruitment measure. That's how you could get the best specialists and the best skills. In Australia there were also hospital cows, and this was also a measure to bring these cows down. Back to Norway. We have a much lower proportion working outside hospitals than many other countries. Almost 100 pst. by the doctors in Austria work outside the public, half of the doctors in England. Figures from the Central Statistical Office show that the proportion of doctors and medical specialists in Norway who work outside the public sector and have an extra job is 6.8 pst. The hospital partner has conducted a study that has looked into the work of doctors outside the hospital and how this can affect the medical capacity of the hospital. The study shows that doctors in the hospital position who also have an involvement in the private or public sector work as much at the hospital as their colleagues without such commitment. These doctors therefore provide more labour. It is important to have sound legislation regulating such employment. A thorough letter from the Minister of Health and Welfare on 18 September of this year shows that regional enterprises have developed and implemented continuous guidelines and systems for the consistent reporting and control of the beekeeping of employees. These have been implemented in hospitals and are the result of decisions taken by individual health business administrations. It shall also be reported in annual reporting. Bier jobs and potential sustainability conflicts have been addressed through corporate policies and systems, and we expect businesses to follow up. The Minister also says in his letter that he will follow this up in the dialogue with regional enterprises. It is important that we focus on stability, not least to avoid suspecting those who take on extra work outside their working hours. Regional health establishments are also required to provide good and comprehensible information on free hospital choice through the mission documents. The National Audit Office has also pointed out that more people should apply free hospital choice, thus reducing the number of cows. It is not only the hospitals, it is also the decision-makers who are to inform about this. We are engaged in a strong public health service and avoiding a two-way sharing of healthcare services by making availability dependent on private purchasing power and health insurance. It's actually 8 pst today. by the population who has such insurance. We are concerned that hospitals should be the carrier, but be complemented by private service providers, both non-profit and commercial. Then we also depend on someone choosing to take a job outside their work at a hospital. I noticed in the hearing that the Medical Association was in favour of measures that could lead to better availability of specialist health services for the population, that it was more necessary to open up to private actors, precisely to contribute to a public health service. This is about trust. Trust depends on us having access for everyone. The fact that public health professionals take on beekeeping also has more positive effects. Firstly, additional work may result in a more efficient use of the resources of individual health professionals, in which case they will be able to provide services during their leisure time, but not least the health professionals will also be able to acquire valuable competences and experience, which may benefit the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1450	In the Norwegian health service, whether public or private, it works very many capable people. Common to all, most of them are that they have the patient's best in mind. We know that many work a lot overtime, and often work in several places, for several different actors – without necessarily creating conflicts of interest or problems related to bijobber for that reason. Norwegian health professionals have a high ethical standard — as several of the previous speakers pointed out here today. It is important to stress that regional health companies are required through the mission documents to provide good and comprehensible information on free hospital choice to individual patients, both on waiting time and on treatment provision in public and private healthcare. It is worth noting that the hospital partner has conducted a study that has looked into the work of doctors outside the hospitals and how this can affect the medical capacity of the public health system. The study shows that doctors in the hospital position, who also have an involvement in private or public health services, work as much at the hospital as their colleagues without such commitment. These doctors therefore provide more labour and the background appears to be economically motivated. The group of doctors with extra jobs has a significantly higher debt than those without an extra job, according to the survey. It also clarifies that the extra work of doctors does not exclude the public health service from the labour force. As the representative Ørmen Johnsen pointed out, Norway has a much lower proportion working alongside hospitals than other countries. Almost 100 pst. This is done by the doctors in Austria, and more than half of the doctors in England have bijobber. Figures from the SSB show that the proportion of doctors and medical specialists in the public sector who have an extra job in private or public health is 6.8 pst. It is not desirable to have a two-part healthcare service. Under the previous government, a notable number of Norwegians took out private health insurance. This may weaken the legitimacy of public health services. Therefore, the work to bring down the waiting lists is essential. This is the Right-Fremskritsparte government in progress through the purchase of more health capacity from private and non-profit institutions serving households. The Medical Association also welcomes the contribution of several private actors to a comprehensive, high-quality healthcare service. It is important to provide for a more flexible working life, so that health professionals who want to do so can work more than the current organisation allows to make better use of their work capacity – be it from public or private providers. This government is creating the patient's health service. That work is well under way. Also included in the government’s health management is taking into account all its competent employees, who do good work both with public and private providers, and, as I said, have a high ethical standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1469	Norway has a good health care system, but we are not too many doctors or specialists. For a long time, therefore, many hospital specialists have either started their own practice or been employed by others, in addition to having a job in a Norwegian hospital or in the Norwegian health service. This is how it has been to satisfy the need for the particularity to which they themselves have been trained. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have clear guidelines on how to enforce this with having one job one place and another place in a bee shop. The Christian People's Party is pleased that, by letter to the Committee of 18 September of this year, the Minister shows that regional health businesses have developed and implemented continuous policies and systems for monitoring and reporting the beekeeping of employees. But the Christian People's Party is not least concerned that there must be ethical and legal obligations, that it provides good information about existing public offers, and that the beekeeping of doctors and nurses is handled by the main employer. It is important that the bee jobs that each individual has do not replace public services and are perceived as abusive. It is important for the Christian People's Party that the agreements with the regional health companies be fulfilled. Nor are those who have their own practices, other than their public acquisitions, able to engage in active marketing in relation to patients referred to under public contracts. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to focus on stability, just to ensure that each doctor has confidence in the population, and that this is done primarily for the benefit of the patient – not for his own wallet. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that you get access to the patients who are entitled to health care, that they get help as soon as possible, and that you get control of the situation they are in. Who gives it help – whether it is a public hospital or a specialist who has an agreement with the hospital – is to a large extent immaterial to the Christian People's Party. The important thing is that the patient gets help as quickly as possible. We believe that specialists with bee jobs can be involved and contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1484	The centre party will vote in favour of proposal No. 1, which is about asking the government to provide an overview of the scope of potential role mix, both by adding to the public health service and by private operators with contracts with the public. We shall also vote in favour of proposal No. 2, which is about ensuring that health professionals assigned to public hospitals do not have private bee jobs that are directed towards the same type of treatment for the same patients in the public sector as the corresponding ward, and that at the same time facilitates the exploitation of the working capacity of the bee in public hospitals. We will not vote in favour of the other proposals, and a bit of the background is that I believe that what is basically important here – and that is where the policy lies – is proposal No. 2: Do we still want it to be possible for doctors in Norwegian hospitals to also work in private businesses? It has been a difficult question for me, because this has historically been a system that has worked in a way. At the same time, one has to take inwards that there have been some unfortunate examples, where the consequences are very bad for the Norwegian health system. It relates to what is so fundamentally important, simply the confidence that health professionals are practicing the medicine without suspecting that it is an economic incentive that determines whether a referral here or another place is given. That's why we in the Center Party have found that it's not enough that regional health professionals have this in their regulations, and that it's routine for this. I think this is such an important matter of principle that this should be the state and the Stortinget, as the top responsible for the specialist services, meaning something clear about it. It is argued here in the room that LAGs also work in private, almost desirable. Yes, no one can argue that more labour is good. There's a lack of games and specialists. Doctors work in public and private in other countries, we've done this in this country too, and it's come to the conclusion that it hasn't gone beyond the public health system. That's okay. But is it desirable, and how is development when we get the introduction of free treatment options, where private providers and public hospitals are going to become real competitors for patients? This proposal from the Workers' Party to make a decision of principle, I read as a protection against suspicion of a mix of roles. I think it is necessary, as the development is, and as the government wants the Norwegian health service to become, with more use of competition between different service providers and no more use of cooperation. I also have a thought about the fact that lark has to work more than normal working hours. Yes, it has been, and maybe it has to be like that, but I also thought that one should respect that corpses are like ordinary people. There are now very many women in the study. It's a large number of female medical students. I don't think we can expect in the future that they will work the same way overtime – especially in a small child phase – as the experience may have been in the past. Anyway, I think there are a lot of good arguments for making that principle decision, which provides protection against suspicion of a mix of roles for health professionals in Norwegian hospitals. That is why the Group of the European People's Party would like to vote in favour of the proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1503	Let me first say that the Workers' Party's invitation to discuss this is very commendable. There is a debate we have to take, and the Left fully supports it. But it's important to distinguish between putting someone in an unlucky role and arranging for a more principled protection. For the Left, we believe that we have some structural challenges in the Norwegian healthcare system today, and especially in the hospital sector, which means that we need to address them before we go too far in regulating exactly what we are talking about today. Health insurance is mentioned as an option today in Norway. We can look at Scotland, where the committee was travelling last winter: they have no waiting lists, nor do they have health insurance. This means that the private market gets less room for manoeuvre that we have in Norway today by allowing some to buy faster in the queue via health insurance. I feel that free treatment choices are an answer to precisely abolishing the health insurance scheme we are developing in Norway, which has grown relatively freely under the red-green government. In the case of free hospital choice, there is also a structural challenge. When we talk about getting information and creating the patient’s health care system, it is important that we in the health care system facilitate patients’ participation and participation in the information development that is taking place. Free hospital choice is a good example of the fact that the hospital sector is not coordinated today. If you get a referral from a hospital today, there is no information or reference to free hospital choice, and the fact that the public is unable to coordinate is not a sign that they are on the right track. Rather, health firms — and especially hospitals — are trying to hold patients and not guide them further. It says something about that there is a DRG system today that is not in line with the developments we want. Therefore, we need to facilitate a better flow of information. Free Hospital Choice, Health Square Portal and greater opportunities for HELFO and the Free Hospital Choice Office to facilitate an information platform that solves this, I believe that important steps are now being taken. The structural challenges arising from the financing system we have in Norway, and the DRG bureaucracy that we are building up in Norway today, are structural challenges that we have to solve before we go too hard to regulate the principal shots here for those who work in turn in public and private. As the representative of Ørmen Johnsen had to say, when the committee was in Australia, it was interesting to see how they would lock the private actors into the neighborhood of the public actors just to create a dynamic and a volume and capacity and attractiveness – not that we should go so far in Norway that we should have a 30 pst. private health, but we should probably discuss more in Norway how to have a work distribution between different actors in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1518	Many patients wait unnecessarily long for health care. The government wants to make better use of the capacity. In the 2015 government budget, the government has therefore proposed to increase the grants to public hospitals, to remove the activity package and to provide for easier access to private forces. The government does not want to move towards a two-part healthcare service, where some people themselves pay for health care because the government cannot provide quick enough help. Such a development undermines the emergence of public health. For this reason, in January, the government will propose to the Stortinge to introduce free treatment choices. It is unacceptable if doctors in public abuse their position or influence patient flows in order to enrich themselves or the private activities of others. Any employer, including the hospitals, must expect loyalty from the employees. It is, as representatives are aware, that guidelines and reporting procedures are established for specialists and managers in the specialist health service. I assume, of course, that these are respected and respected. Health regions have, through agreements with private actors, instructed them to provide an overview of their employees and their employment. With regard to the award of a specialty home contract, flexibility and beekeeping are key issues and hospitals require fewer contractual arrangements not to affect the hospital’s ability to plan well. Isolated events have been reported where private actors, especially in radiology, act in a manner incompatible with agreements concluded. The radiology agreements state that there is no opportunity to market privately funded offers to the publicly referred patients. Furthermore, purely privately funded offers shall not be at the expense of the public service contract. The representative proposes to assess legal instruments. I am of the opinion that it is not possible by law to refuse employees to work in a private enterprise during their spare time, as long as this does not affect the working conditions of the hospital, or is contrary to the duty of loyalty or to the rules of the Administrative Act. Nor do I see the need for a change in the law in this area. Today's Medisin October 23rd this year refers to a study by Karl-Arne Johannessen and Terje P. Hagen. The study shows that hospital doctors with extra work in private or public health services work as much at the hospital as their colleagues without such commitment, and it also shows a significant decrease in the proportion of extra work between 2001 and 2009. The study confirms that 15-20 pst. of the extra jobs were in the primary health service. Statistics from the Central Bureau of 2013 show that only 6.8 pst. by the hospital doctors were registered with beekeeping. Calculations in the Health West show that the working capacity associated with beekeeping is only 0,23 pst. of the total number of hours worked in hospitals. In addition, the study shows that there is a risk that doctors may choose to move to private activities, if they have a ban on beekeeping. I don't think it's in the patient's interest to remove the additional capacity that, after all, is in the exercise of these beehives. Nor is it the case that by removing that possibility, one will necessarily find a corresponding increase in public health capacity. This shows, in my opinion, that there is no basis for amending today's legislation. It is important to create an understanding and a culture for managers and employees to exercise good judgement in the use of beekeeping. Employees must ensure that they do not get into a situation where the hospital's reputation is impaired or where the hospital's reputation is damaged. Patients and dependants shall be sure that hospital doctors are loyal to the hospital and the patient’s rights. In addition, public health services, and the private sector, need to be more effective in informing patients about their rights, including: on the possibility of free hospital choice. Furthermore, an attempt must be made to further develop the agreement with private individuals on uniform information for patients and users. This government is in favour of stronger cooperation between the public and private ideals of healthcare, where one sees one another as good partners, and where one cooperates on patients and patients’ processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1542	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1545	I don't know if the Minister of Health misunderstands on purpose, or if he doesn't fully understand what we're writing. I like to use the example that if a teacher teaches a class, I think most people would have thought it was strange if the same teacher paid for extra classes in the same class. Of course, if the teacher wanted to do extra work and teach other students that he doesn't look at every day, it's quite unproblematic, and that's a little bit the same thing we're looking for here. I understand that it is a difficult distinction, and that it is a difficult and demanding balance. But what we're really talking about is whether it's reasonable that a health care professional who sees a special patient group in the daytime, in return for payment, can do the same for the same patient group in the evening. So there's no ban on beekeeping in general we're proposing. I record that the Health Minister says he is for an increased interaction – and so am I – between private ideals, private commercials and the public. But I still want to ask him: does he think that what he is now proposing – the increased interaction – can have these consequences that I have described?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1554	I think we have quite good evidence that the hospital doctors who work privately – who work extra hours in addition to the time they work in hospitals – do not work less in hospitals than their colleagues who do not work in private. It means extra capacity in a publicly funded part of healthcare, even if they work privately. The Workers' Party's representative proposal would have worked so that this capacity had disappeared. Although it is small in percentage terms, in some areas it is an important treatment provision for patients, which would have disappeared. The alternative is that these doctors have to work with something they can do less about, and I also think that this is a very bad idea for the patient’s part – that doctors only have the opportunity to work privately in areas they don’t work with otherwise, will probably go beyond quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1561	It's tempting to comment on it, but I want to switch to another phenomenon. A patient has seen a doctor saying that the patient needs further treatment. The patient is told that there are eight weeks waiting time in the hospital that is in his area. The patient thinks it is too long to wait, and finds on the Internet a private operator who offers this the day after, or in a few days. What is the duty of the Minister of Health that a private, commercial actor in this case has to inform the patient – in consultation – that the patient, for example. by travelling a train or flight can be performed exactly the same operation or treatment, without having to pay from private pocket? And if this information doesn't come to the patient, what kind of responsibility does the Minister of Health think that, for example. such a private actor has to do with the patient and with society?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1570	Of course, private operators who have contracts with the public are also required to inform the patient of their rights and opportunities. It is natural in the agreements that they have. Then I'm a little uncertain about the premise about that question, about the role of the private actor to whom the representative here refers. But to the extent that they have agreements with the public to do a mission in the area where the patient is asking for help, the private actor also has the responsibility, of course, to inform the patient about the patient's opportunities and rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1577	I hear the Council of State in its statement says that he will not regulate anything against having a private beekeeping, and it also says in the answer to the committee. I respect that, but I could want to know if the Council of State thought it was okay and desirable to have a development where, to a greater extent than today, there are more places to work, for example. Both in the public and in the private sector, of which there may now be more, only they have registered it. Does the Council of State think it is a desirable development that the league should work with several employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1582	The development is going in the opposite direction, that there are fewer doctors working privately alongside the public. There is a general trend in health care that we also see in many other areas, doctors want to work more common hours as opposed to previous ones. And so is the new agreement between Specter and the Medical Association, which provides good opportunities for doctors employed in the public sector to now work more in the public hospitals. That is what I want, and I have also made it possible to do both through the draft budget and by removing the activity gap in the public hospitals. I want doctors who are employed in the public sector, who want to work more, to have the opportunity to do so in public, but I have nothing against the fact that even doctors after tidy conditions, clarified with their employer, possibly jobs in beekeeping privately if they want to. But first of all, I want them to take advantage of their ability and capacity in the public sector when everything is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1587	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1590	The fact that doctors in public hospitals should be able to have bees in private clinics has many aspects to do. When the Labour Party has addressed this in a proposal for a representative, it is because we believe it is important to have these pages highlighted and propose measures to prevent this from becoming problematic. There was a recent debate in the media that took place that some doctors who work in public hospitals and who have bee jobs in private businesses work very many hours in the distance. The doctors are excluded from part of the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act and there are clear limitations in collective agreements on how much individual doctor can work. The question asked in this debate was: Can we be sure that we always stay within these limits? It came out there that there are things that indicate that this is not always happening. Most people think it makes sense that there are rest periods for responsible professions, for example: for transport workers. Rest periods for ambulance drivers are e.g. absolutely and cannot be waived. Then it is a bit strange and suspicious that you can come to the hospital and meet a doctor who has worked in a trip and who has not slept for a long time. Most people would think that the profession of medicine is demanding. The working time arrangements focus on the needs of workers in order to take care of their seas, their own health and, in the next instance, their ability to cope with the work they have. And for health workers, including doctors, this point is crucial in order to provide qualitatively good and, not least, safe help to patients. In this perspective, it is worrying that, for example: doctors have beeswax if this is significant and goes over a long period of time. Another point that many people are concerned about is that we need to use the staff of public hospitals smarter and could take advantage of the working day in hospitals better than we do today. The Labour Party has launched as one of several goals for better hospital services that we should have afternoon and evening open air, for example. for day surgery in public hospitals. The Minister of Health mentioned the agreement with Specter, and then he again referred to the wonderful roof that the bourgeois government introduced in 2004 and that was not in operation at all in the last two years under the red-green government – but now left it. If we're going to do this, we need doctors who are fully employed at the hospitals and who make their workforce available, which is not necessarily, perhaps not at all, compatible with extensive beekeeping in other establishments. There are many reasons to ask these questions raised by this representative proposal, which draw up some lines dealing with ethics, loyalty and the problems of getting involved in double roles when working in two similar companies. I'm pretty sure these are issues that we're going to meet again in the public vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1605	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1619	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1626	I would like to start by thanking the Committee for a solid examination of this document. We have received a lot of information during the handling of the case. First of all, I would like to say that it is important to have as a starting point for this debate that alcohol is a legitimate and legally traded product. It is a fact that the turnover of the wine monopoly is levelling out in terms of alcohol turnover in Norway. More and more alcohol consumption comes through the sale of tax-free sales, through imports from other countries — i.e. purchases abroad — and a good deal also comes through illegal smuggling. This, of course, is a challenge for the position of the Vinmonopoly. There is a broad consensus that there is a need to limit the adverse effects of consumption and that there are thus restrictions related to the placing on the market of alcohol. Today, the monopoly of wine is very upswing in the population, and there is a broad consensus that the monopoly of wine has an important role to play in society. It is important to avoid undermining the legitimacy of the wine monopoly. The wine monopoly contributes to limiting the adverse effects of alcohol consumption, including social and health challenges. In the case of duty-free sales at airports, there appears to be an agreement in the Committee that there is a need for a proper design of the tax-free shops, and that a natural possibility is given to avoid the tax-free shops on arrival and departure. There is a common expectation that it must be easier to go outside the tax-free shops for those who do not want to shop there. If the wine monopoly were to take over free sales at airports, it would involve a change in relation to the mandate and the role of the wine monopoly today. It is assumed that a number of legal and practical challenges arise, and it has not been given that the wine monopoly can take over the duty-free sale of alcohol today. A problem that has not been addressed is whether this could challenge the current wine monopoly regime and the derogation that Norway has from selling tax-free and non-taxable alcohol within the same institution. It is a challenge that must lie in an investigation requested by the majority. In addition, there will also be economic issues related to the overall revenue from the sale of alcohol. Today, parts of the sales-based rental income, for example: the sale of free alcohol, to Avinor and then into the operation of Norwegian airports. It has not been given that a new legislation will provide equivalent access to cross-subsidies. Nor has it been given that the income of Avinor is going to be the same if the Vinmonopole takes over. Today, alcohol represents a relatively small proportion of duty-free sales at aerodromes. The majority, including the Left, believe that existing contractual relationships should be respected and that it is therefore not appropriate to enter into the current time-limited agreement. It is worth noting that the sales development that has been for Avinor and the rentals they receive from the tax-free sales have gone up from 785 million. kr in 2005 to nearly 2.4 bn. kr in 2013, a trend that appears to continue. This has happened under the rule of the red-green government, and it was a little bit of a theme then. I'm going to wake myself up well to say that this is the top of recklessness, but I'm going to say at least that it's quite free that the Center Party is promoting this proposal relatively quickly after they've come out of the government offices. Maybe it's not just companies that need a right of withdrawal for agreements, maybe you also have to put in place a political one, because this poses a number of challenges. In addition, it is a challenge that the agreement has been concluded with Travel Retail Norway on behalf of Avinor until 2023. How could it be that a ten-year agreement has been concluded? It was concluded under the responsibility of the red-green government, and it did happen without any competition for the agreement. How could that happen? These are important questions for the Storting. Over a 10- to 15-year period, we're talking about over 30 billion. kr other than policy priorities in the Grand Duchy, which takes the form of cross-subsidies. I think this is something the Biggest should be involved in, and that there is a basis for the Control Committee to look at just these facts. Finally, I would like to add that the members of the Committee, a majority of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, promote the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive investigation into the tax-free regime during the current ageing period, including a review of social policy perspectives.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1655	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1658	First, I would like to thank the proposers for raising this issue. The monopoly of wine is, as we have been faced with earlier today, one of our main instruments of alcohol policy, and it is incredibly important that we protect it. As the rapporteur also pointed out, there are health considerations that allowed Norway to retain the State monopoly in 1994 as part of the EEA Agreement. The absence of private economic interests and sales in controlled forms reduce alcohol consumption and reduce the adverse effects of alcohol and have contributed to a lower alcohol consumption in Norway compared to the rest of Europe. The World Health Organisation refers to alcohol as the second largest risk factor for disease burden in Europe. Although I said that Norway has a low alcohol consumption compared to other European countries, it turns out that alcohol consumption among the population has increased. It is a pleasure that young people are falling, but it is increasing especially among older people. The number of hospitalisations due to alcohol-related injuries has increased by 50 pst. in the last 10 years. Two-thirds of the injuries to the bodyguard in Oslo and Bergen are related to alcohol. However, the Workers' Party notes that border trade and duty-free sales have gradually weakened the economy and legitimacy of the Vinmonopole. It is essential for public health that the wine monopoly remains a solid instrument in alcohol policy. According to the Vinmonopolet, today 25 pst is traded. of the spirits and approx. 12 pst. of the wine via the duty-free sale. This summer we were able to convert the duty-free tobacco quota into a larger wine quota, not spirits, and then it turned out in the third quarter of this year that sales had increased by over 30 pst. compared to the third quarter of last year. As the rapporteur also pointed out, perhaps for some reason that democracy is working is that we, as a new big group, are taking over those changes – the huge increase in turnover. The working party is very critical of the fact that the turnover of the tax-free sales is different from the wine monopoly. Those who are currently responsible for the tax-free sale had a profit after tax of 225 million. kr in 2013. 50 pst. by their owners are non-resident. We could bring this surplus back to the community if the Vinmonopole had been in charge of the scheme. Nor is there anything to suggest that we cannot maintain the same scheme as today, but that parts of the sales revenue can help subsidize the small airports. It is correct, as the rapporteur says, that approx. One third of the alcohol turnover from tax-free sales — i.e. 700 million. kr – enters the Avinor Concerto, as it is today. Although it happened during the Workers' Party, we are fully aware of that, the Board of Directors of Avinor – and it has also responded to today’s Minister of Transport – took responsibility for extending the agreement, so that they have a total contractual term of 18 years. It is quite special that a company such as Avinor, which is publicly owned, enters into and extends an agreement without giving others the opportunity to make an offer and enter into the tendering process. This could also result in better agreements aimed at Avinor's interests. This is followed up by the Control and Constitutional Committee. I have asked questions to the Minister for Transport, because the agreement has not been published. But the positive thing is that he responds that that agreement has taken into account that if changes occur on the part of the authorities related to the movement of duty-free goods, the duty-free sale, there are opportunities to cancel this agreement. We've seen that as it's become public that the majority in this room want the Vinmonopolet to take over, there are many who ask whether it could cause it to go beyond the airports, and will require 1 billion. kr in the redemption of the contracts in force. That is why the Labour Party is leaving proposal No. 2 and bring forward a new proposal No. 4, so that it is clear that these sides have to be evaluated. The new proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess as soon as possible whether it is possible for the Vinmonopolet to take over responsibility for the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Norwegian airports.’ That is when we promote that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1676	The representative Ruth Grung has then taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1679	The monopoly of wine has an important societal role in sales and marketing control. I believe that both the government parties and the red-greens can agree on that. The differences lie in the instruments we consider necessary to limit the social damage caused by alcohol consumption. In Norway, we have used a wide range of instruments to help reduce alcohol consumption and reduce alcohol-related harm and problems. These are instruments that it is important to enforce and continue, and they shall also apply to the tax-free shops. I would like to begin by pointing out that there have already been visible improvements both at the Gardermoen and at other airports, by the fact that it is now arranged so that travellers can go outside the tax-free department both on departure and on arrival. I therefore wonder that this is being used as an argument to investigate the tax-free system. The organisation is also a responsibility Avinor must assume, and thus has little to do with the issue of how to organise the tax-free system as such. The Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government were authorised to restructure and also increased quotas. It contributed to increased sales, which in particular the Workers' Party now uses as a reason that the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free sale. It was also in 2012, under red-green rule – or Labour Party rule – that the agreement between Travel Retail Norway and Avinor was renewed. Despite this, the Workers' Party is today, in the form of a note, in doubt as to whether the contract is valid. From the government side, there is a valid existing contractual relationship between the parties until the end of 2022. This must be respected. Everything else will be a serious breach of contract. At the same time, we know that such an investigation and amendment of the law as the majority now requests will raise a number of legal, economic and practical challenges. I am therefore surprised that the Labour Party supports both proposals. How can the Workers' Party now, after two years, ask questions about the validity of the agreement, as they write in their comments? Today, Travel Retail Norway pays 2.3 billion. kr. in rent. It's going to be 25 pst. the revenue of Avinor, which is therefore less dependent on State budget appropriations than other State companies. The proposal that the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free sale, and it now appears to be a majority decision for an investigation of the scheme, will undoubtedly contribute to future uncertainties about the further operation of the small aerodromes out in our long-range country. We are talking about airports that are today financed by the profits from the just tax-free trade. We cannot imagine that a possible change in funding will create major challenges for the small aerodromes. Nor is it to avoid that the debate about how many small airports we will have in the future will come up with these kinds of proposals. In addition, I would like to point out that there is reason to believe that a possible consequence of the take-over of the Vinmonopolet tax-free scheme is that passengers will instead choose to trade goods at other European airports before entering Norway or that Swedish trade will increase. So it's not obvious that changing the system as it is today will lead to a reduction in alcohol consumption, as the red-greens now claim. For the parties to the Government Right and the Advance Party, it is not appropriate to make changes in the current period, rather to terminate the existing contract. Termination of the tax-free contract at Norwegian airports could go beyond the districts and make it more expensive to travel. It is therefore difficult to understand that the working party and the red-green go for this. The Government Platform and the Cooperation Agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left state that the main lines of the alcohol policy must be firmly established – a policy that the government still stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1696	The issue that we are dealing with today has come about in a strange way, when we see who is co-sponsor to the proposal itself, and then, of course, I refer to the Central Party. The current agreement – until 31 December 2022 – has therefore been concluded for a period of time with a red-green government. Yes, not only were the Red-Greens sitting and driving, but the Minister of Transport was also from the Center Party, that is, from the same party that now finds it too good to question this agreement. So there are some people who have claimed that this is something Avinor has done on his own keel. I doubt that one has been in a situation in Avinor where neither the board of directors, which is otherwise appointed by the ministry, nor the council of state, which is a general assembly, has known about this. Yes, in short, I think that the Center Party is reasonably full of bad conscience and not least poor governance if this has happened during their reign and when they run the department, and you have not been able to know what your subsidiary is doing. But leave it, let's go into the matter itself. I think it was the representative Ruth Grung who said it would probably cost approx. 1 billion. to trigger this contract. The company that is now running this, that is, Travel Retail, has an annual profit after tax of 237 million. kr. When we look at the number of years that are left of the contract, and you look at the rate of profit, I think that solving such a company from such a contract is going to be significantly more expensive than 1 billion. kr. It's just multiplying by the number of years left in the contract. It is now proposed that a proposal relating to a comprehensive review and investigation of the tax-free regime be given a majority. I think that's okay, it's just gonna happen -- there's no danger with that. But here there are several different approaches to the matter, there are lots that are opposed to the tax-free system in general, there are some who want the tax-free system to continue, but only by the fact that the wine monopoly takes over the operation itself, and there are lots that want the system to move forward as today. On the part of the government parties, at least on the part of the Progress Party, we want these things to be dealt with by tender, and I have no problem in being able to participate in and tender for the operation itself when this agreement, which is now under way, is due. But what's weird is that there's a third of the tax-free business we're discussing here, most of the tax-free sales actually go on cosmetics, on tobacco, on chocolate and that bit. That's about. one third related to the sale of alcohol, and that is where the wine monopoly has its expertise. I doubt that the Vinmonopole will take over the sale of Kinder Chocolate, tobacco and various perfume varieties etc. This will also lead to an increase in costs, i.e. a decrease in profits and a decrease in the revenue of Avinor – revenues used to finance, among others. aerodromes around Norway. I think that alcohol policy at all does not matter whether it's a private company or whether it's the Vinmonopole that operates the tax-free sales at the Gardermoen, at Flesland and at other airports. What is important is to make sure that you sell under the laws and regulations that are in place, and that you make arrangements, as you have just done – now you have got another entrance portal, so you don't have to go through the tax-free store. I think that's okay, I think it shows that you take responsibility. Personally, I also think it was high time, but it was because you now don't have to go through the perfume department when you get to the airport. I thought it was more annoying than if there were other goods on display, but there would be another bowl. The Contracting Party shall be responsible for the agreements concluded. It's going to be expensive to get out of these agreements if someone wants it. In addition to that, I think the company that is there is doing a good job of securing the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1711	It is a paradox that we have a system where we sell the three goods that require the most in terms of health challenges – what the Health Committee is now debating: sugar, smoke and alcohol – with less taxes than plastics. It's a paradox, Christian People's Party. When the Christian People's Party fences around the wine monopoly, it's because we have a story. This hall – I believe it was in 1919 – decided to ban the sale of alcohol. But we didn't live alone on this globe, so the French reacted and said, "If you don't buy alcohol from us, we don't buy a single piece of rockfish from you." This meant that the Storting had to take action to get control of the sale and purchase of alcohol, and they formed the Vinmonopole as such. It was an incredibly good way to regulate alcohol consumption and alcohol sales. When the Christian People's Party and the Centre now propose that the Vinmonopolet should take over the tax-free system, it's precisely because we want to fence around the position of the Vinmonopolet, because we're about to undermine that position. We want the monopoly of wine to have a social role, and we want to have this tool to prevent alcohol-related damage and problems. The wine monopoly is still under pressure. For example, the figures from the Wine Monopoly show: that from the duty-free quotas were amended in July 2014 and until November which was, 30 000 litres of less alcohol were sold in the wine monopoly sales in the South-East. Then someone might ask, Does the Christian People's Party worry about it? It is clear that the sale had gone down, overall, it would have been a pleasure for all of us, but the problem is that the sales in the tax-free system at the same time have gone up – and significantly. That means that we're actually shifting the sale from the Vinmonopole to the tax-free sale. It can also increase alcohol consumption, not least because we are weakening the economy of the wine monopoly. We're undermining the Vinmonopolet as an actor and as a system. Then it will be that the challenge for the Vinmonopoly, with its economy, is that you can't bet on small sales from the Vinmonopoly in the districts because you don't have the economy for it. Then the yellow has been laid, and then we want to undermine the Vinmonopole as such. So the Christian People's Party – and I think that the Center Party too – knows that there are agreements with those who operate the tax-free system today, and we know that these are very long agreements, even strangely long agreements. If we talk about agreements in connection with other types of activities, such as child protection, etc., only one- and two-year contracts apply, but here they can suddenly apply for both 10, 15 and 18 years. It's a long deal, and that's why the Christian People's Party wants us to see if these are agreements that stand by if we look at them more closely. These are contracts made with public institutions. Why does it apply to someone and not to others? The Christian People's Party wants to see if it is possible to conclude this contract, because we want the Wine Monopoly to take over. In fact, we want to see at the same time whether it is possible for airports to have an agreement with Avinor to ensure that airports in the districts are safe. The Christian People's Party is prepared to have an investigation on the matter – whether it is possible legally, and what consequences this has. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a majority decision today with a desire to have the Wine Monopoly take over, and look at what alcohol consumption means in a social policy perspective. And since the Workers' Party withdrew from proposal No. 2, I would like to clarify what is in proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the SV, and as I thereby take up: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the Vinmonopolet take over the duty-free sale at Norwegian airports.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1729	The representative of Olaug V. Bollestad has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1733	The wine monopoly has an important societal role in sales and marketing control, and there is extensive evidence that the wine monopoly system is an effective means of preventing alcohol-related damage and problems. Then we know that the monopoly on wine is under constant pressure, among other things. from the tax-free market, which is increasing and constitutes an increasing proportion of total consumption. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party are in this case some to suggest that the Vinmonopolet take over the tax-free hall and get a review of the tax-free regime in Norway. Today, Avinor's revenue from the tax-free sales is about the same as the traffic revenue, and our commitment to the proposal is that in order to drive the tax-free sales, the wine monopoly has to settle with Avinor on the same terms as today's tenants. The center party has program party that we will have the Vinmonopole take over the tax-free hall. So to the representative Ketil Kjeseth: he shouldn't worry that we don't know what we're doing. This has been adopted by the Central Party’s national meeting, followed by active policies in the Stortinge. Part of it is called for to terminate the entire tax-free arrangement. I think it is a good thing that this debate has come up, because it seems a little illogical that we are giving air travelers a premium with cheap sugar, tobacco and alcohol — all three significant factors for public health. But what the centre party is proposing today is not to wind up the tax-free system, but we suggest that the wine monopoly should take over the operation. More people are worried about financing the small airports. Yes, that's legitimate, and that's good, but the premise in our proposal is that they shouldn't do that, precisely by the fact that the monopoly on wine will take over the sale on the same terms as today's tenants. So the Central Party actually thinks we should build the country with political will. We're not going to build the country with alcohol. In the debate, it is problematic that Avinor has entered into a new agreement with Travel Retail Norway until 2022, and that this raises some legal, practical and economic issues. Yes, it does. But then there is also reason to remember that the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party does not contain a deadline. Our proposal I see as a principle decision on the Storting actually wants the Vinmonopole to operate the tax-free hall. I feel that in the United Kingdom today, the country’s leading health policy-makers are debating as transport policy-makers without debating the real issue – what is being proposed. There will be a debate about an agreement. We don't debate the issues themselves, and I think that's very regrettable. The representative Nesvik is quite free, I thought, when he made the deal a big deal in himself and asked if we have a bad conscience in the Center Party. We don't have that. The centre party also believes that the contract that had been concluded must be looked at and evaluated. Nor do we see the logic of such long contracts, and one must look at the circumstances around when that contract was concluded. But as I said, we have a principle decision today to have the Vinmonopolet take over the tax-free regime, and I don't see that the government party argues against such a principle decision. I'm glad we're getting multiples for that one proposal to get the tax-free arrangement out of Norway. So until the proposal that the Labour Party is subtracting. I want to signal that the central party is behind the proposal in the setting. We believe that the Labour Party proposal is a leaching, and also unnecessary, based on the meaning that was told as the reason for changing the wording. The central party is behind the proposal, which is also led by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1752	Taxfree is really a strange construction. We have set up an international system for people — not everyone, but those who travel — to avoid paying taxes on which most countries think is so harmful that it should be subject to taxes, whether in the case of alcohol, tobacco or sugar. It is a system that leads to a rather unsocial distribution of the tax burden that we impose on the population, where those who travel a lot can in practice get their entire consumption of alcohol — or other consumption, of sugar or tobacco — covered without charge, while those who travel a little, as is usually the ones who have at least before in our society, have to pay a fee each time they buy a bottle of wine or a pack of smoke. On top of that, we in Norway have set up a system where the revenue from the tax-free sale subsidizes parts of aviation traffic and our network of airports, which also gives some strange environmental policy distortions when we see what kind of different financing system we have for airports versus, for example, railway, which is dependent on being granted a crown for initial investments from the State budget. In addition, when we see contracts with commercial operators in this area being concluded with a duration which, as the representative Bollestad pointed out, is quite beyond the scope of other agreements with actors to provide important community services, such as in the area of child protection or drug care, I think that the time really is ripe for the overall investigation that the majority is going to be asking for today. It will give us an opportunity to discuss whether we should have a tax-free system, how it should be set up in that case, whether it is such that other countries' tax-free systems make us have to have our own, or whether we have a freedom of action we can use. That debate is coming. Then this is a debate on how we organise the tax-free system we actually have. In this case, SV’s clear view is that these revenues should be attributed to the Vinmonopolet. It is the wine monopoly that has been the tool of growth and government that has pointed out to pursue an active alcohol policy and provide alcoholic beverages for those of us in Norway who want it. Then we also realize that there are clear limitations to the agreement that have been concluded, but I cannot see that it stands in the way that Stortinget expresses its view on how the organisation should be in the future. That's why I'm a little surprised that the government parties are more concerned with quivering around that agreement than actually clarifying how they think this ideally should be organised. I will finally give a brief review of the SV's vote. There has been an error in the setting that we have to put on our own jacket. Proposal No. 3 from SV I'm not taking up. It is not promoted and should not be weighed over. SV shall agree with the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left for Proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox That would give a majority in favour of that proposal. In addition, I understand the reason why the Labour Party has proposed a new proposal, proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox It is a desire to stress exactly what I said, that we have no choice but to recognise that there are legally binding and valid agreements that have been concluded. However, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 2 and against proposal No. 4, but it is that we have always realized that the intention behind proposal No. 2 is saying something in principle about how we want the organization to be, and notifying the government that that is what we want as soon as possible. With this explanation of our vote, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 2 and against proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1773	The Green Party has long made it clear that the sale of free alcohol at airports is an illogical and inconsistent system that we oppose. The Green Party has therefore today made proposals to the government to wind up the current tax-free system for alcohol at Norwegian airports, so that the scheme no longer includes alcoholic beverages. The reason for this is simply that we believe that tax-free sales of alcohol are an incomprehensible undermining of an otherwise comprehensive alcohol policy, and the purpose of the scheme is therefore to encourage air travel and finance aerodrome development. As you know, air travel is a major and increasing climate problem. It's an activity that's growing violently, and it's already 50 pst. the average northerly greenhouse gas emissions of the average northerly man. If there is any activity and sector in the Norwegian community that absolutely does not need the aid of state-subsidized alcohol, it is the aviation sector. Furthermore, the scheme is unfair. It's just those who both drink and fly, who benefit from that arrangement. There are many parties in this big business that have spent the last few days discussing social justice, and if this system was socially fair, tax deductions should be given for air travel to everyone. It is not for the Greens. It is estimated that the phasing-out of the duty-free alcohol scheme from 1 January 2015 will result in an accrued revenue increase of around 1,2 billion. kr in 2015. The Ministry of Finance, of course, stresses that this estimate is uncertain, because part of the sale that is currently being made at airports will be taken abroad instead. But it is certain that this is money that could have been spent more sensibly on other measures above the State budget. Therefore, the proposal is also that the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free sale, a stomach patch – between birds and fish. There's still a tax-free sale, and we 'green' at Stortinget will point out that adopting another investigation of a system that we know more than well enough from before is completely unnecessary. This is a principle and a political question; it is not a technocratic issue, although we recognize the need to check the contractual relationships associated with such an action. But it has to be possible to take a principal position on this before a contractual relationship can be managed. This is a question of whether alcohol subsidies for air travel are a good or bad scheme, given Norwegian social policy and given Norwegian climate objectives. According to Avinor, the contract with Travel Retail Norway does not contain a right of cancellation for the parties, with the exception of a political decision to amend or wind up the entire tax-free arrangement. The agreement means that it is unlikely to be realistic that the Vinmonopole can operate tax-free sales before maybe nine years, unless the Storting decides on a real termination of the tax-free system at aerodromes for all goods or selected items taken out of the tax-free system. It is this proposal for a public decision promoted by the Greens today by the Greens. Avinor can then choose for the next round whether to continue to have alcohol sales at airports — but chargeable as normal and operated by the Vinmonopolet as normal — or not. We leave that to Avinor and the Wine Monopoly to negotiate. There is no doubt that alcohol has a negative impact on people’s health. Although it is a legal product, we are aware that there is a product that contributes to a lot of social distress, and the turnover of it is we agree to limit. The Green Party therefore considers it striking that the entire Health and Welfare Committee agrees that alcohol policy should become more comprehensive and sound, and is also critical of the current system in which Travel Retail Norway operates the tax-free sales, but does not, however, propose to stop the system of alcohol sales at aerodromes. I would therefore like to address the proposal that the Greens have made by the Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1794	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1797	Alcohol is a legal product, but it is not a general product. It is a product that causes damage and problems. Alcoholic beverages affect not only the user himself, but also family, friends and other third parties and society in general. There is therefore a broad consensus that we need to use more instruments to reduce alcohol consumption and reduce the harm and problems caused by alcohol use. I think it is important to ensure a comprehensive and balanced alcohol policy. The wine monopoly system is one of the most important alcohol policy instruments. The main lines of the alcohol policy, including the monopoly system, must be defined. The exclusive right of the monopoly to retail sale of stronger alcoholic beverages ensures control, controlled availability of alcoholic beverages, and limits the marketing of alcohol. In order to maintain an effective alcohol policy in the long term, there is a need for legitimacy and acceptance in the population. I believe that the tax-free system is part of the overall alcohol policy package and can be said to have contributed to the acceptance of the other alcohol policy instruments, among others. relatively high taxes on alcohol and the monopoly. The duty-free sales at airports are currently operated by operators who have agreements to handle this operation. These have recently, under the previous government, extended their agreement with Avinor until 31 December 2022. The proposal proposes that the Vinmonopolet should take over the duty-free sales at Norwegian airports. In my view, it is not appropriate to decide that the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free sale at airports now. I believe that there is currently no sufficient basis to make such a significant change to the tax-free system and not least to the tasks of the Vinmonopolet. Such a solution raises a number of legal, economic and practical questions. In any case, I do not think it would be appropriate to decide that the wine monopoly should take over the tax-free sale without all the aspects and consequences of such a solution being further explored. A transfer of the duty-free sale to the Vinmonopole will be a significant change in the tasks of the Vinmonopole, which is currently limited to offering taxed alcoholic beverages above 4.7 % vol. in Norway. An investigation of this issue also needs to be carried out. state whether such a transfer of tasks threatens the basis of the Vinmonopole. Finally, I would like to conclude that it is important to ensure the proper design of the tax-free shops, which provides a natural opportunity to go beyond the tax-free shops on arrival and departure. I am therefore very pleased that concrete changes are now being made, and I expect the roads outside the shops to be made clear and easily accessible. And we now see that changes have been made, among other things. on the Gardermo, so that now it feels completely different than before. I would like to stress that it is also important that the tax-free shops, both in the design of the shops and in their current business, ensure that the ban on alcohol advertising and the other requirements of the alcohol law that apply to tax-free sales are complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1816	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1819	In this respect, the Minister for Health, with the Vinmonopolet, considered that the tax-free scheme was part of the overall alcohol policy design. After a year at Stortinget as a health politician, I have gone back and read a little about the recordings from the Vinmonopolet. They have been worried for a long time. In particular, they note — from the point of view of the monopoly on wine — that when such a large part of the turnover is made either through tax-free trade or through cross-border trade, the whole system of the monopoly on wine and the legitimacy of the monopoly on wine in the population is undermining. Minister of Health, as the Council of State and responsible for the Vinmonopolet: Where is the limit for maintaining the Vinmonopolet, seen from your point of view?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1828	I think it's important to have a wine monopoly, and I think it's important to have a well-available wine monopoly. We have that in Norway. We have that in Sweden. Tax-free sales and duty-free sales in Norway are, of course, not only at airports, but also tax-free sales on the boats. If boats in foreign traffic had not had the opportunity to have tax-free sales, I think some boat routes had disappeared. There is also free trade across borders. I note that Sweden still has a wine monopoly regime, but they have completely different import quotas than what we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1837	The question concerned the care of the Vinmonopolet and the signals that you, as a health minister, have received from the Vinmonopolet – about how worried they are about developments since the summer and in the third quarter, where sales have increased by over 30 pst. There are starting to be red numbers for the Vinmonopole — both in the South and elsewhere. You as the expert council and responsible for the Vinmonopolet: What is your message to maintain the wine monopoly system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1842	The President will note that all enquiries must be made via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1845	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1851	Councillor Bent Höie, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1854	Alcohol policy in Norway is adopted in the Stortinget – it is not the wine monopoly that develops alcohol policy. Then it is up to the administration of the Vinmonopoly to operate the Vinmonopoly within the laws and regulations adopted by the Storting, on the basis of the economic balance requirements of the Vinmonopoly regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1861	The Council of State has just said that the alcohol policy is being adopted in the Grand Duchy, and today the Grand Duchy will adopt a proposal where: ‘provide the government with a comprehensive investigation into the tax-free regime during the current wholesale period, including a review of the social policy perspectives’. In the letter of reply to the Committee on this matter, the Council of State itself strongly argues against such a proposal: it sees no reason to use resources ‘on a special review of the tax-free system’. Now it's like a government council has to bend to what a big one decides. So I want to listen a little bit to the Council of State how he then sees himself following up on the intention of what it's now going to become a multiple on the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1871	I have listened carefully to the debate and the recordings of those behind this majority proposal. If it is adopted later today, of course I will follow up that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1876	A little bit in the extension of what Mr. Grung asked about, and which the Council of State had to say, it was important to have a comprehensive alcohol policy: I wonder if the Council of State feels that there is a majority behind the overall alcohol policy in the Storting, with the last revolution that happened, with possibly switching the tobacco quota, the smoking quota, with an extra alcohol quota. Is this part of the overall alcohol policy that strengthens the wine monopoly?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1881	That amendment was adopted by the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget. If you're talking about the main lines of the alcohol policy as part of the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government, I see that it consists of four very central elements: maintaining the monopoly of wine, maintaining the ban on advertising, maintaining a high level of fees and keeping regulated sales and donations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1886	So the chord change is over. The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1891	I want to respond a little to the challenges raised by the Right and the Advance Party in their speeches, and to clarify that the background to the Workers' Party now wants to assess the possibility that the Vinmonopoly should take over the tax-free sale, is precisely the clear signals we have received from the Wine Monopoly, that we are on the way to undermining the social mandate they have, and the legitimacy they have in the population. The Workers' Party is a knowledge-seeking party, and that's why we want to find out if it's possible for the Wine Monopoly to take over, whether there's a way for us to enter into the agreement before the end of 2022, and not least to look at arrangements for further financing of the infrastructure and small aerodromes. Then I would just like to remind you that the EU has removed the tax-free system ten years ago. There is not so much use of tax-free in-house in the EU. Norway is slightly different from other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1900	A good old saying is, ‘Why change a winning team’, or in a slightly different way: why change something that works well? Today's tax-free system actually works well – it actually works twice as well. Firstly, it contributes to the trading of a small share of alcohol at an acceptable price by good Nordics, and secondly, it contributes to airports around Norway, which in turn is essential to ensure the efficient and adequate development of our airports without having to bypass the state budget and national transport plans. Now it's going on, for example. a massive expansion of Gardermoen Airport, and it is an example of investments that can be decided quickly and efficiently on the Board of Directors of Avinor without having to go through treatments in national political processes and policy plans, but also without burdening Norwegian taxpayers. The result is happy traveling, and cork and chaos are avoided, as for example. are on the road network. I have major problems seeing weaknesses in this system. Rather than trying to water it, it should be strengthened and expanded. I note that the proposers have a kind of desire to continue the concept of the scheme by subsidising the taxi-free sales to airports. What, then, are you going to try to achieve by letting the wine monopoly take over the alcohol sale? Firstly, do you have to cancel favourable agreements with the negative economic consequences that will result, and secondly, is there not any logic that there would be any less alcohol to be sold if the wine monopoly takes over? The only possible reason I can see is that there is a kind of moral or ethical argument that the wine monopoly is going to have some sort of control over most of the alcohol sales in Norway. I do not find such an argument that is so crucial that it is worth supporting, so I recommend as much as possible to vote against the proposal. A recent comment on the closure of the tax-free scheme in the EU. Compared with the EU, prices are a little different from those in Norway. Price levels are at least half that of alcohol, and in addition they are much easier to obtain than in Norway. So it's going to be comparing two very different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1911	We have a little different motivation to get a majority for the investigation proposal that we are dealing with here today. On the left, we are having a debate about abolishing the entire tax-free regime similar to what the EU has done, and there will be a different debate from that of Kjersti Toppe and Olaug Bollestad: maintaining a free movement of alcohol in Norway. I have a little difficulty seeing the principal health policy version of that debate, that we are going to have a system of selling free alcohol in Norway. There are some fundamental questions as to whether the wine monopoly is to manage both types of sales, both taxable and free of charge. That is now part of the debate. But from a health policy point of view, one should not go in order to have lower taxes on alcohol sales. So to the administrative part of this debate. After eight years with the Minister of Transport and after concluding these long-term agreements with Travel Retail Norway, it is a challenge when, at least, the Central Party has overall political responsibility, that we see an ever-increasing sectoralisation and governmentisation of Norwegian policies without the involvement of the Stortinge. When it has such economic consequences as 30 billion. Dr over a few years, which then goes beyond political priorities, raises an important debate — including administrative ones. Here it is made visible and put at the forefront of an open landscape debate between the Vinmonopolet and Avinor, as two state actors. I don't think it looks very good in public that we are standing here in this situation. We've also seen the Vinmonopolet argue that they're not going to take the consequences of this transport policy, but that they're going to have a reduced tax burden on alcohol in general. Then we're going into a completely different debate. The health policy element challenges us very much in terms of the future level of alcohol taxation in Norway. I would assume that this debate is not in line with today's proposal to investigate, but for the Left, it is therefore a complete investigation we want, and then to decide whether to proceed with tax-free sales, whether to wind up the whole scheme, and whether to get the transport policy part of this – with cross-subsidy – into the public and into the Stortingen to decide on this. There are many debates here in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1924	We can see that the last word has not been said about tax-free in this Chamber in this period, and we now know that there will be an investigation, even if we vote against it. It's a debate we want to participate in. Then I will come back more to what we mean, when I was challenged on it by the representative Lysbakken. But first of all, I will give tribute to Rasmus Hansson, who has the most principal approach in the matter and draws the consequences of some of the arguments that others promote. I want him to take credit for that, even if I don't agree with him. There are some parties that have moved something in this case. Among other things, there was a central member of the Left who said just before the election: ‘Today there is no desire in the Left to remove the duty-free sale. It's a system that many people obviously appreciate. The gain by removing it is probably much less than the experience of disadvantages». The Christian People's Party, on the other hand, took the floor before the elections to look at the organisation of tax-free, which they are following up today. In the case of the red-greens, this case is much more interesting. SV was the party that was in government and increased the wine quota and made for too much of the sales growth in tax-free we have seen in recent years. They are now skeptical of the whole scheme, and will let the Vinmonopole take over the sale. The Marianne Marthinsen of the Workers' Party stated in the evening post just before the elections last year that the Workers' Party is satisfied with today's system: ‘Tax-free sales are an important source of revenue for airports and a very well-established concept.’ For the Workers' Party, the alcohol aspect was not important. It was the need for airport financing that was the argument. But they were clear: the tax-free system must be fixed. The centre party, together with its red-green friends, chooses to complain that in 2012 Avinor extended the agreement with TRN from 2022. They themselves directed the Ministry of Transport in 2012. The Committee setting suggests in a note that the authorities are trying to ‘hidden’ the will of the large community to maintain small airports through free alcohol sales. So they're suggesting that this is something that happens in the hidden. In that case, there's a deck operation the Center didn't get an eye on when they ran the Ministry of Transport for eight years. I have all the respect that parties follow up their party line in this case, but I wonder a little bit about the reverse operation this case represents for the red-green parties. It is in any case interesting to see how critical the red-green parties are obviously to the policy they themselves led in government. For the time being, we can see that the tax-free system continues as before, but with the necessary adaptations in today's legislation to ensure that air passengers do not balance between alcohol bottles on the way to and from the aeroplane. These are changes SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party could be implemented as they themselves sat at the rudder. Then we were challenged by the Light Bin on how we imagine this in the future. Our policy is to continue today's arrangement, with the adjustments that have already been made by allowing people to go to the plane outside the tax-free store.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1957	I have to be allowed to answer some of the challenges that lie here. The Christian People's Party, together with the Center Party, has made two proposals. One was that the Vinmonopole should take over the tax-free scheme, because we think we're going to support the Vinmonopole. But it's a proposal number two. It's that we want a review of the tax-free system. Since the Christian People's Party is not allowed to choose from the top shelf – we don't think there's a majority in this room to shut down the tax-free regime – then we'll be on the same thing as the Left, to look at that possibility. It's not on our side that we don't want it. The Christian People's Party is committed to securing the Vinmonopole as point one, and as point two to look at the possibility of going through the entire tax-free system as such. That was my answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1964	There were some articles at the end that I wanted to comment on. To the representative Tor André Johnsen: I thought he had a very honest post that said what the Progress Party means about the tax-free arrangement and that they are not so concerned about strengthening the Vinmonopolet position. I understand that, because they're not for having a wine monopoly at all. To the representative Ketil Kjenseth: It is a fundamental health policy debate whether we want to strengthen the Vinmonopolet's position or whether we want to undermine the Vinmonopolet's position by increasing the tax-free hall. I think it's interesting that the Left now discusses to wind up the entire tax-free hall, but I think it's a little winged, when they in the revised national budget last year were the party that gave multiple numbers to the government to increase the alcohol quotas for wine by 50 pst. But when that's said, I'm very pleased that the Left and the representative Kjeseth are voting for a holistic review. Finally, to the representative Sveinung Stensland: He is now also talking very well about the other party's arguments and counter-arguments, but I lack a little of what Right actually argues for itself in this matter. He came back to the agreement that Avinor has made, and the extension of the lease. I answer as I have done before today: this is what Avinor did without any political treatment, but now it is fortunate that this agreement is going to become a matter in the Storting, in the Control and Constitutional Committee, and I think it is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1973	Now the representative Kjersti Topped himself to the great heights of this pulpit, and she called the Left Wing in this matter. So it comes from the party that had the State Council in 2012, when this agreement was signed, which ensured – without a tender – that this company was renewed for 10 new years. In addition, the representative Toppe also indicates that in the revised increase in the tax-free quota, if you were to take cigarettes, you could swap them into two extra bottles of wine. The representative once again uses the concept of raising the tax-free rate by 50 pst. The percentage is probably not Kjersti Toppe's strongest side, all the time she then forgets that in addition to these bottles of wine you can actually bring with you other products. Taxfree is also other products. It was also the same lot that helped to ensure that the wine quota was increased from two to four bottles. Wasn't it an attack on the Vinmonopoly, as the representative sees it? It was the representative Lysbakken who asked what the representatives from the different parties thought about today's tax-free system. We in the Progress Party believe that the tax-free system, as it is today, works, but we would very much like it to be tendered when this agreement, which is now here, expires. The monopoly of wine may also be allowed to participate in the tendering process. It's okay. The most important thing is to get this up here in the open, and not to take decisions – which the representative Toppe had in mind – without political governance. It may seem that the central party council that directed the department that had the ownership of Avinor at the time, at all, had no control, neither on the board that a self-appointed, nor itself as a general assembly. That's interesting, but it's nice that the representative admits it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1982	I note that the red-green parties debate and reflect on their own policies. I think it's important that all parties do, and that one discusses and reflects when there are also changes. I am very pleased that we are not static in our approach to neither health policy nor other important areas of society. I think that's absolutely necessary. If not, we can easily do crazy things and become very conservative in our approach to important areas of society. These are difficult discussions. This is about health policy, to the highest degree. It's also about income for Avinor. It's about a cross-subsidisation system. The Labour Party has not said what we are going to end up on, but we must, of course, finance a grid in Norway. We must take care of the health of people, we must have an overall approach to alcohol policy. Then it is not useful to do as representatives from the Right and Advance Party: put your head deep into the sand and hope that things will go over when you see that the position of the wine monopoly has weakened in the last few months. In that case, you actually need to discuss what you can do to maintain and further develop a good and comprehensive alcohol policy. So I'm not ashamed, and I don't regret that we always reflect on our own policies and practices. I think it's very important for all parties to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1991	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e1994	It's not so often I get to swing to the big heights, so I take it almost as a compliment that I managed to do it. I was criticized by the representative Nesvik again, and the worst thing is that I am owed for not being able to make a percentage – I thought I was quite good at math. But it's like when an increase in the number of bottles one gets from tax-free, from four to six, I think there's a 50 pst. increased. But we can take a seminar on that afterwards. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is rather sad that the Stortinget is unable to discuss health policy, that it is just acting as a transport policy, and that there is a great deal of discussion about agreements. It doesn't matter, because it's too important for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2003	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2006	I think I'm going to help the representative Top with the percentage right away, so we don't have to take it afterwards. If the representative Toppe had talked about the wine quota, there would be something quite different, but the representative Toppe was just talking about the tax-free quota. And with the tax-free quota, you can also bring with you six bottles of wine, and you can bring with you a given number of boxes of beer -- you can bring that with you on the same quota. So it's part of the tax-free rate, and then it's just going to be 50 pst. longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2011	The President thanks for such clarification. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. The President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 9-11 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2054	These cases relate to the second processing of legal acts. No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2062	Before we go to voting, the President has taken the view that Mr Grung wants an explanation of vote on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2065	There is an amendment to proposal No. 1, from the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party, in Case No. 5, on changes in the alcohol law. The working party draws the last point, which concerns the third paragraph of § 3-7.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2070	Then it's drawn. The size is ready to go to voting on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2103	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2158	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2168	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2176	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left 2, from Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the purpose of ensuring the alcohol law and proposing that the wine monopoly cannot keep its shops open for Christmas, New Year’s Eve, Easter and Pentecost, and that the sale of alcoholic beverages from the Vinmonopolet and grocery stores cannot take place on election days and days for referendums.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2202	The President recalls that before Stortinget went to voting, § 3-7 third paragraph of proposal No. 1, drawn from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2235	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left – with the exception of the third paragraph of § 3-7. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2280	The working party has notified us that they will vote in favour of this setting. The Christian People’s Party and the Center Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2293	It is voted on by law and law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2303	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2311	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Audun Otterstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, proposals No. 3-5, from Audun Otterstad on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging investigation to be launched in cooperation with the Cancer Association to find the background to Norway’s worst case in Europe in terms of the mortality of feces, to find out measures — both prevention and treatment — that can reduce the incidence of all skin cancers. Such an investigation should also consider measures to change attitudes, to be more easily investigated and to contribute to early detection in Norway.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to put forward a strategy to strengthen research into new treatments for pectoris.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote against the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2344	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to propose ways in which governments can increase support for prevention and awareness-raising against femoral disease.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2362	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting that all solar studios be operated by personnel trained in routine and safe operation, maintenance and hygiene as soon as possible.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2379	Proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are being raised to vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the introduction of the necessary regulation of solarium to limit the presence of pectoris in line with the recommendations of the State Radiation Protection Agency.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2413	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Mr Micaelsen, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, 3 and 4, by Mr Micasen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, 5 and 6, from Torgeira Mikalsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, Proposals Nos. 5 and 6, on behalf of the Workers' Party, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate whether public and, where appropriate, private hospitals should provide compensation for patients buying expensive private health services as a result of a lack of information on the possibility of treatment through publicly funded schemes.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to cooperate with the consumer authorities in designing mechanisms to ensure that patients are well informed about the possibilities, limitations and alternatives of any own purchase of private health care, insurance and the like.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2450	Proposals Nos. 3 and 4, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, to vote. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that agreements between public, regional health establishments and private providers are designed in such a way that there is no financial incentive for private operators to allow full-paying patients to go ahead of publicly funded patients. As a general rule, agreements should be concluded in such a way that during the contractual period the private operator fully prioritises the publicly funded patients.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to submit legislative proposals requiring private health institutions to provide good and comprehensible information to the patient on alternative public funded schemes before the patient is given expensive private treatment that he must pay himself. Such information should be provided in consultation and coordinated with the patient’s permanent staff.’;» The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2474	Proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, shall be taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide, at the latest in the context of the revised National Budget for 2015, an overview of the scope of potential involvement of both public health staff and private actors with public contracts. This applies in particular to employment, ownership or corporate governance in competing activities.’;» The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2491	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked, if necessary by a legislative proposal, to ensure that health professionals employed in public hospitals do not have private beesights targeting the same type of treatment for the same patients as the department in which they are employed in the public sector. At the same time, in cooperation with the employee organisations, better use should be made of the work capacity of public hospitals in cases where key personnel wish to work more than the current organisation permits.’;» The Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2524	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, by Oluk V. Bollestad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 4, by Ruth Grung on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 5, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA The president pointed out that the Workers' Party had left the fraction of proposal No. 2 and that proposal No. 3 was not presented. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to amend the current tax-free regime at Norwegian airports so that the scheme no longer includes alcoholic beverages.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2556	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that the Vinmonopolet take over the duty-free sale at Norwegian airports.’ The President recalls that the Labour Party is no longer behind the proposal. The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2575	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to assess as soon as possible whether it is possible for the Vinmonopolet to take over responsibility for the duty-free sale of alcoholic beverages at Norwegian airports.’ The Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The SV has announced that they will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2594	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive investigation into the tax-free regime during the current ageing period, including a review of social policy perspectives.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2628	Case No. 9–11 is the second time legal proceedings are under way. It's Act No. Six, seven, eight. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Grand Duchy is therefore approved at second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2642	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? – Trine Skei Grande has asked for the floor. The President thus gives the floor to Trine Skei Grande pursuant to the second paragraph of Paragraph 54 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure. On the treatment of long-term asylum-seekers
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2654	The Christian People's Party and the Left have asked the Minister of Justice to come and make a statement on the basis of information that we have become acquainted with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2659	I give the floor to Trine Skei Grande, who has a speaking time of five minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2662	The Christian People's Party and the Left have asked the Minister of Justice to come here today to explain something that we consider to be an important urgency. The Christian People's Party and the Left signed an agreement with the government in 2013 to establish new rules for long-term children. For the Christian People's Party and the Left, the long-standing children themselves were at the heart of such an agreement. While the previous government had given priority to throwing out children who had lived long in Norway, the Solberg government said that while waiting for new rules for the long-term children, the priority should not be given to the group that had been here for a long time. Some drafts made the Left and Christian People’s Party concerned. That is why the representative Iselin Nybø sent a question to the Minister of Justice on 3 October this year and received the following reply on 8 October in the same year: ‘The priority given to long-term asylum children for emigration has not been given any political leadership.’ Nevertheless, the Left wanted to raise this matter in the persuasion debate, where the Council of State was present, and on 6 October 2014, the same question was asked in this Chamber. Then the Council of State said: ‘I am very pleased with that question – we have not done so.’ And then he said, ‘We have made it so that, in order to avoid situations where children remain for a very long time in Norway, it is not the long-term priority that should be given to families with children in general. But the government has not sent any signals to give priority to a long-term child in order to send them more quickly to the front of a code. That, I believe, would also be an unacceptable act in relation to the contractual relationship that the government has with the Left and Christian People's Party." That's what the state council said in this room. Today, through Bergen's Official Journal, we have been informed that this is incorrect. Both in the release note for the Police and the People's House and in the release note for the Police Foreign Unit, which actually enforces this, the changes that the Council of State claims to have made to us in 2014 have not been made. My first question is: how does the Council of State explain that his explicit political leadership in reversing the priorities of the Red-Green Government for the deployment of long-term asylum children has not reached the Ministry of Justice's underlying directorate and agencies to decide on the effectiveness of expulsion? My other question is: does that mean that children who wanted to fall under a new legislation have now been sent out because of this? And can the Council of State assure us that this has not happened? My third question is: does this mean that children can also be in danger of being sent out because this has not been changed, and how can the Council of State assure us that it does not happen again? I don't know. 15.45 today in the Official Journal of Bergen, the Council of State states that he should not "empty the warehouse" of children. I don't think that's a lucky comment. At least I expect the Council of State to have a slightly different tone with regard to the asylum-seekers, when he is going to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2697	Let me first thank you for this opportunity to clarify an ongoing matter so quickly. I'll first say a little bit about the facts. The Ministry uses allotment letters as a basis in its governance dialogue with underlying agencies. There are also the political signals from the department. In the 2014 letter of award, the Ministry made an important change in how the police should prioritise among those to be transported out of the country because they do not have a legal residence. When it comes to the relationship with children, it was in the past that long-term children should be given priority. From 2014 we changed it, so from 2014 there are issues that concern children in general, which should be given priority, but not with emphasis on issues involving long-term children. The reason for this is that we are working on new guidelines for the deployment of long-term children, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It should not be the case that we should give priority to sending out children who could be subject to new legislation to a greater extent than others without having to stay legally. The underlying offices shall follow the instructions in the letters of assignment in their own disposal notes which proceed to the directorate's underlying establishments. It appears in this paper that a mistake has occurred, by the fact that the Police Directorate has not followed up the change that will apply from 2014, but used the 2013 wording, from the previous government. The 2014 letter of award states that: ‘It is an objective that persons return quickly without lawful delay and primarily with assisted return but, if necessary, with coercion. The following priority shall form the basis for the work on forced return: Prosecuted convicted persons. Persons to be returned under the Dublin Regulation. Non-residents whose refusals have not been deferred. Priority shall be given to matters involving children.’» This is in line with the information I have given in Stortinget, which the representative Skei Grande expressed. Disposal written from the Police Directorate to the police districts and the PU states the following about children: ‘The priority shall be given to matters involving children who have been in Norway for a long time without authorisation.’ I am responsible for everything that is happening in my underlying offices, and I have today asked the police director to come to explain what has happened, how it has happened, and what practical consequences it has had. In addition, the guidance on which the letter of allocation was based in 2014 shall apply with immediate effect. This is a situation that is very unfortunate, and I cannot help but regret it. As an underlying agency, the Police Directorate has not followed up the clear policy change contained in the 2014 letter of allocation. Such errors shall not occur. It is currently not clear to what extent the lack of follow-up has had practical consequences, but it will be thoroughly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2739	According to the second paragraph of Paragraph 54 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, the President will open up a brief comment round, each party group being given the opportunity to speak. Those who want to speak have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Then the questioner and the Council of State will be able to make comments, and they will also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2744	This is a matter of great seriousness. Trine Skei Grande did very well for the situation that has arisen, and I would like to say that I am very pleased with the clear reason that the Minister of Justice came out of this pulpit just a short time ago. The letter of assignment is the user manual itself for the Foreign Policy Unit. It is the instructions for use that they are to follow, and it has not been in line with the clear promises that have come from this pulpit and that have also been the political signals. I am therefore pleased with what the Minister of Justice says here that it is unacceptable and that it has a cause. So it says to see if this has mattered, had consequences for individual matters. I am also pleased with what the Minister of Justice says here, that there will be work to clarify this. At the current time, it is not clarified. I would also like to thank the President for the opportunity to address this matter. We know that what has now happened may have had meaning. We know that the idea was that the long-standing asylum children should not be given priority to broadcasting. But unfortunately, it may just have happened. That is why it was important that we now have this round here, and I would like to believe that in the dialogue that has now taken place between the Directorate of Police and the Minister of Justice during the day, it has at least been made clear what is going on in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2755	I am pleased that the Minister of Justice had the opportunity to come to the Grand Duchy so quickly, and he gives a clear and good answer to the enquiry he has received from the Left and Christian People's Party. But here, obviously, the police department has done one too bad job, and they realize that. Here things happen so quickly that the Minister of Justice has not yet moved to meet with the police director on this matter. But on the police's websites, on police.no, it now says that the Police Directorate regrets that the steering signal on asylum children was not passed on to the establishment. Then, of course, it becomes important to get to the bottom of how this could happen. I have full confidence, on behalf of the Right, that the Minister of Justice and Defence contributes to the follow-up of management signals and letters of assignment. I expect the Minister of Justice to have an explanation – if it is good, I don't know, it remains to be seen – of what has happened in this case. I think it is good that it is also possible for Stortinget to give a signal that the letter of assignment is not being followed is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2762	It is quite clear that the agreement reached in this field between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left is to be followed. The councils are also very clear, both in their regret and in their reply, that it has always been the intention. Then there has obviously been a mistake, which the Council of State has grasped immediately. It has already had the consequence that action has been taken in the field and that the police director must also respond to the Minister of Justice. What is also important is that we must now ensure that the final legislation relating to the long-term asylum children is put in place. It is important to do something about it now, so that we are sure for the future that the practice takes place under these agreements. I would also like to say that I believe that the Minister of Justice and Security has taken action on this matter quickly and made sure to implement the measures that can be taken in the short term. Then you get to put the final code in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2771	I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for his presentation. I understand that the Christian People's Party saw the need to ask for a statement on the matter from the newspapers that were in Bergen's Official Journal about it today. It is now over a year since a cooperation agreement was concluded between the four parties, so there is an understanding that a new policy should be established. The Minister of Justice of the United Kingdom, as mentioned earlier by the representative Skei Grande, has also assured us that the guidelines have been amended following an order from him. So now we see that those who are implementing the policy in this area feel that they have not changed their approach, so here there is a need for clarification, and it is probably rare that we see such a clear regret from the Great Britain's pulpit as the one we saw now, and I think that is commendable. So there's a couple, three questions that it might have been interesting to get a little bit more clarity in. One is that if this is about the letter of assignment, it will usually be sent out at the beginning of a year, and I am not aware of how much time it takes to get the following release note. But how long is the period we're talking about here? It would have been interesting to know. Is it six months? Is it ten months, or is it eleven months? It would have been interesting to get a little bit more clarity in it. Any government council will have regular contact with the nearest state councils in charge. So there is also a question of whether the Council of State regularly controls whether some of the changed policy signals sent out are being followed up. At least that wouldn't have been completely unnatural. The third is seaworthy that all the parties might be able to benefit from the adoption of the promised regulation. I think this came up with a statement that at least indicates that things are going to happen now by the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2785	I'm recording the Minister of Justice's complaint. He stresses that it is the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State to follow up the underlying agencies. This is a debate and a matter that has been going on for a longer time, and here there is probably a need to go into the matter more thoroughly to see how this has been followed up by the government and the Council of State over time. This is not a debate or a matter that has emerged today. Last but not least, it is important that future policies be clarified. Ever since the co-operation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left was signed last year, there have been different interpretations of immigration policy. Whether this is to be understood as a narrowing or a liberalisation, it is also important to clarify quickly, so that the people involved know what they have to do with the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2792	I would like to thank both the Left and the Christian People's Party for addressing the matter. It is very serious, and SV has supported the work of the Left and Christian People's Party all the way to get a more humane policy for the long-term children. That's also why on several occasions we raised the question of putting these issues at risk, because we've looked at the numbers of broadcasts. But we've been very happy when the Council of State, the Left and the Christian People's Party have assured us that the rules have changed, and that we should no longer focus on the long-term children on broadcast. It's not that long since we got new numbers from September. SV took this matter up in connection with the persuasion debate and asked that these matters be put to rest, precisely because we got the figures that showed that there were very many long-term children who were sent out. All the way around, the government has denied that this is the case. I'm glad he admits today that there has been a failure here, and that he wants to fix it. But the question is, what happens to the children who could have been accommodated, and who may now have been sent out? It is such that you have not assured that children who entered into the one-off solution were dealt with – many have not received it – and now you have sent out more, and you still have no legislation in place because the agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government has passports for tightening up. The Council of State also admitted that it is not in line with the intentions of the agreement, the passus must be that parents have cooperated, e.g., out, or there is a real tightening. Therefore, SV believes that these matters must now be put to rest, and because unfortunately the Storting has voted down SV's proposal on this, at the latest in the debate on the throne, it is now up to the Christian People's Party and the Left to negotiate with the government that these matters are now suspended until we get a new regulation in place. That's the only right thing that can happen now, and I expect it to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2801	Then we're done with the comment round, and the president gives the floor to the representative, Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2804	I want to start by thanking the President for giving us the opportunity to do this. I think it is good that the Stortinget is given the opportunity to lift urgency, and this is an urgent matter because it concerns concrete children who can be informed today of decisions relating to them, so I think it is a very proper use of that point in the Rules of Procedure of the President. Then I would like to thank the Council of State for taking it so seriously. But my challenge in the future is whether this means that there have been many errors in the broadcasts, and that this has not been tightened up for the future either. It is worrying that the most frequently mentioned point in an allocation letter, the point in the letter of assignment that both Prime Minister and Minister of Justice stand and guarantee in the storeroom, does not reach the underlying offices. That gives cause for concern. But my commitment is linked to the concrete kids and the consequences such a mistake may actually have had for the lives of many of them. I didn't expect the Minister of Justice to explain it now, but I expect the Minister of Justice to be able to explain it as soon as he has gone through the cases with the Directorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2813	I would also like to thank the President for the opportunity we have had to have this review. As I mentioned in my presentation, we will review the matters that have been in the portfolio. But one should have in mind that this is about people without a legal stay as a starting point, but that there may have been a mistake in the priority of which persons are to be sent out in view of the political signals that have been completely unambiguous in the letter of assignment sent by the Ministry of Justice and Defence to the Directorate of Police. I can assure you that we will be even clearer when it is necessary, we have seen that in this case, and that we will follow up the follow-up of the underlying agencies to the letters of assignment. The letters of assignment are the basic governance document from a department to underlying agencies. So it goes out at the beginning of the year, and then it goes out shortly thereafter. So this has been a political leadership where the Police Directorate has followed the leaders of the previous government and not changed them, as they should have done after the new letter of assignment. As I explained, I'm taking this most seriously. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have also given me the opportunity to explain the facts in the matter, and to show that we are taking this in the deepest seriousness, also for what will apply in the future. With regard to the issues of the agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left and the future legislation, we are also quite clear that we need to get there as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-02.ana.ud559e2822	So this is the question round over. Is there anyone else who wants to speak before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
