ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e41	They called the alternates, because East-Agder County Lene Langemyr and for Oslo Frode Helgerud, have taken their seats. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Centre Party Group to the representative Heidi Greni from 23 May until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative for goods, Hallgeir Grotvedt, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Hallgeir Grotvedt is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e81	The fishing industry, like many other sectors, depends on foreign workers, not least in the high seasons. Thousands of foreign workers contribute valuable labour, which we depend entirely on during the winter season and in other seasons when fishing is large. According to a report from Norut, the Northern Research Institute, as much as one third of fish processing employees in Norway are foreign labour. It is essential for us that all workers in Norway should be entitled to decent pay and decent working conditions, regardless of whether you have permanent employment, vicariate or seasonal work. Several research reports in recent years have revealed a lack of seriousness and extensive social dumping in several industries, including the United Kingdom. construction, industry and private services, such as cleaning and staffing. No later than January of this year, a Fafo report showed that the number of offences committed in the nightlife industry is very high, while there are major gaps in employment contracts, working hours and overtime. Unfortunately, more stories and examples have emerged in winter that foreign workers are also exploited in the fishing industry. Many workers in the fishing industry are not trade-unioned, and the high level of foreign labour makes many people perhaps unaware of their rights in Norway. Language barriers make it particularly difficult for foreign labour to exercise their rights. It is a major responsibility of the industry in this area. In the last year, the Labour Inspectorate has looked into the fishing industry in Norway, and although the checks are not complete and the conclusions are not clear, it is clear that we are facing a major challenge in ensuring cleaner working conditions and combating unculture in the industry. Fafo researcher Kristin Sos, who has researched social dumping, says that unprofessional players in the fishing industry have relatively free play to exploit foreign labour. At the same time, it's a dilemma to deal with things like this, because it also affects the companies that run seriously and that run after the book. But when it's reasonably close between every time the media has a case of social dumping, we have to react. In the last few months, there have been several calls for serious exploitation of a vulnerable workforce in the fishing industry. Stories that go back are afraid of represals if you say so. It is serious if you feel compelled to accept poor pay and poor working conditions. We can't have it that way. Norwegian Confederation of Food and Drug Workers has evidence that some non-resident workers earn well under 100 kroner per hour — in addition to many working up to 18 hours a day, without any overtime payment. Foreign guest workers also tell stories about unworthy living conditions. Many foreign workers are recruited through recruitment agencies. They have been growing strongly since temporary labour needs were allowed to be met by hiring foreign labour in 2000. Companies engaged in the recruitment, distribution and hire of labour had a total turnover of nearly 30 billion. kr, according to figures from 2011. Also in that industry, unprofessional operators have been notified, and Norwegian legislation is not always followed. It's important for the Left that something is done to clean up these uncultures. We need better supervisory arrangements and better cooperation between the tax administration, the police and the Labour Inspectorate, and we cannot escape the need for more unannounced controls. The fisheries and aquaculture industry is one of our most important export industries, and it is an important arrow on which to build the future. We've talked a lot about that in this hall during this spring. It's a big industry that needs to have clean working conditions. It is in everyone's interest that working conditions are good and fair. The question is: what will the Council of State do to improve working conditions in the industry and ensure compliance with the Working Environment Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e115	Let me first thank the interpellant for raising an important issue for debate. Unfortunately, the industry in which the representative places the search light is receiving a lot of negative attention for the time being. Let me start by saying that the fishing industry is an important and great industry in many small communities around the country. It is completely dependent on the raw material, and we know that the fluctuations in the availability of raw material are crucial for the amount of labour needed at all times. We have been dependent on foreign labour in the sector for the last ten years, and we will be dependent on foreign labour in the sector in the years to come. If we look at the first fishing receptions on the Finnmark coast, where Tamil, Swedish and Russian workers came and worked, we can see that these workers are now more or less gone, and there are now more workers from the Baltic and Poland there. Although an industry needs varying levels of labour for different parts of a year, depending on raw material availability, it is totally unacceptable not to comply with the Norwegian Labour Environment Act and other Norwegian regulations. These shall be accompanied by all, both manning agencies and other establishments. It's very serious if you commit yourself to breaking those laws and regulations. It's very serious if you take advantage of the labour force. We also see serious situations in the fisheries sector that can be characterised as serious work crime. I think the most important way to address this problem is exactly what Mr Farstad's representative is about: it's about getting good oversight. This is about several unannounced inspections. It is about more organised supervision, the interaction between the different supervisory authorities. That's what you're doing. In the 2014 budget, the Government strengthened the Labour Inspectorate by 12 million. SEK – 12 million. kr – precisely in order to be able to pursue more targeted work to tackle the problem of social dumping and serious work crime. The Labour Inspectorate has its own programme and its own targeting against, inter alia: The fishing industry, and there is also increasing progress, every single day, better and more unannounced supervision in which both the tax, customs and police are involved with the Labour Inspectorate. I think that's positive. It turns out that the way to exercise supervision is effective, and it is possible to focus on the businesses and businesses that have problems. I am concerned not to create a picture of the entire fishing industry as an industry consisting of cowboys, because that is not the case either. There are many good local, small receptions around our coast, that run seriously, that work hard, they can be family-run businesses. Putting a stamp on an entire industry I think you should be careful. At the same time, it should never be accepted that someone exploits others for their benefit and takes in underpaid – and then we talk about underpaid – that they do not comply with the working time provisions of the Working Environment Act and that they do not comply with other provisions of Norwegian legislation. We must systematically go into those companies, grab hold of them and hit them hard. In this way, we can ensure a safe, but also flexible, family-friendly working life for all those who are honored and who are struck down by those who are unprofessional. Therefore, I would say that the most important thing we do on the important issue that has been raised in this room today is to continue the good work of the government aimed at better supervision and better control of the sectors where we see the challenges are great. It is a work that I have made good progress on – although I record in the media that there are some who are impatient, some who think it is too late. I think it is good that the Storting too is impatient to smoke out the unprofessional, but it should also be a clear balance. We have to have a good enough basis, and we have to carry out these inspections in a good and proper way so that we do not hang out companies that do not initially deserve to be hanged out. Because if you do that, it's also irreproachable. You have to be clear about that balance. Therefore, it will be important to take time to carry out good oversight. It is also important for me to sit down with the social partners. The social partners and the undersigned will sit down on 10 June and discuss how to meet the challenges of the sectors that are exposed to serious work crime. How are we gonna meet that? What action are we going to take? For me, it is important that we sit down and discuss it with the parties, both the employers' side and the employees' side, in order to find good, robust, targeted measures and instruments, so that you do not believe, but that you can actually have a consensus on what you think is the right way to attack it. It's an important work that we start up. It is also important for me to say that the reason why we put it that way is that the Storting has previously said and agreed to solve these problems through industry cooperation. I believe in tripartite cooperation. I believe that industry programs are a good way to do it. It turns out in the outdoor sector, it turns out to be clean, and it turns out in other areas – although the challenges are great, although the problems are many – that it is when you go together in the industry and target your efforts, that you get the best results, that's when you find the most. That's when you take most. That's good, because then you're dedicated to the problem. This will avoid producing many reports, many measures that are thought to be useful, which too many experience as merely increased bureaucracy, an increased burden on the serious. I am also very concerned about not creating tools that lead to increased bureaucracy, increasing the burden on the serious. I choose to finish there and will just finally say that the government is doing an important job. We have strengthened the Labour Inspectorate. More and more targeted and coordinated supervision is taking place between several of the agencies involved, which is also addressed by the representative in his interpellation and calls for activities around.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e141	I thank you for the answer given by the Council of State Eriksson. Like the Council of State, I – and the Left – am concerned that we do not label whole branches. I was concerned about that in my previous post as well. It's a dilemma when you deal with a matter like this. I am also pleased that there is dialogue with the social partners. An industry cooperation to which it is referred, I think it can be very important to follow up. It is clear that the issues of control, of supervision, of following the hard way, are of course very important. But I have an additional question, and that is: can it be relevant for the Council of State and the Department to launch awareness campaigns and take it that way too – of course, in addition to being tight on control and supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e148	I can answer that quickly and effectively. First, there is a great deal of mind-building work in the Labour Inspectorate already today. Work supervision is very concerned with good information, good prevention and good guidance to businesses, but also with facilitating good attitudes. It is important work and perhaps as important — if not more important, so at least as important — as controlling, because the whole main objective must be to avoid serious work crime. Achieving early entry into the sector of awareness-raising work, with prevention, with good efforts — as the Labour Inspectorate does in a number of areas — also helps to reduce the breaks, reduce the crime at work, and increases the seriousness of the situation, and makes it easier to be a serious enterprise. It is important, and it is important for me as the Council of State to ensure that the Labour Inspectorate continues to do so. I feel confident that they will continue to do so, and I do not exclude even more clearly in the attitude-creating work aimed at some of these industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e153	To the interpellant I just want to say that it is very good that this is being lighted from this hall, and that the industry will see and hear that the Storting is concerned about this, and also that the Council of State is engaged in this – as I see it. It is quite clear that we all agree on this – it is just that we focus on the problem. Those who do it, the few who do it -- we're clear about it, and I think that's right, that there's someone who does it, most people don't -- we're going to smoke out, and we're going to open them up. Those who don't come to me with the numbers when I travel around and deliver the catch on the different uses. When we hear the numbers of how much cheaper wages are for those who make this illegal, it's obvious that this is a very big distortion of competition. Like what we see in other industries, we must not let criminals – to hang a bell on the cat – take over our working life. It's a lot of money to earn for those who want to go the illegal road. So there's a bunch of things you can do, there's a bunch of ways to deal with this, and then it's good that we talk about it. Stable conditions for businesses and workers in this industry are very important – good framework conditions, and not changing. I also think it is absolutely right that we have granted the extra money to the Labour Inspectorate. They have to get out of the field, they have to get on the quay, they have to get out of the companies and talk to the workers and have a good dialogue with both business owners and employees. It's very important about this. One part of it will also be that at Stortinget we get an understanding of it and learn about it. The Labour and Social Committee, which is involved in some of these matters, has understood this, so that the Committee shall, on a committee's mission to Finland on 2 and 3 June. Then we're going to meet two such companies, one in the municipality of Nordkapp and one in the municipality of Hammerfest, precisely because the committee wants to get more insight into what's going on in the field. But this is one thing that we all agree on. We just have to get to the point where we're intensifying control and closing out those who are stretching the knit too far. And we have to have strong reactions to that -- it's not going to pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e166	Like others, I would like to congratulate the interpellant on addressing an important issue – a very important issue for the industry, an important matter for all who live and live along the coast, and an important matter for us as a seamate. There is a significant problem that is being identified here, and it is important that this debate be raised in the Grand Duchy, so that one sees that this is something which Parliament is also concerned about. I record that there is a broad consensus that this is important to work with. My article is about two tracks. One is, what can we do to strengthen the serious part of the industry? The second is, what can we do in terms of supervision to break out the unprofessional? There is no doubt that the absolute majority of the fishing industry operates seriously, operates well, operates professionally and is an industry of which we are all proud. But it's a demanding industry. There is great competition, and we see pressure being put on the serious actors as a result of the advent of some unprofessional actors. In addition, the fishing industry is severely affected by an economic crisis in many important seafood markets. Therefore, it was important that the government of Stoltenberg provided a growth package that would contribute to better profitability in the whitefish industry. There was a strong focus on quality and market responses. Unfortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party have removed this bet, and it cannot be called a support for the serious actors. The lot has also reduced the lead grant by 10 million. kr, which is essential for many of the small coastal processing enterprises. We also see that there has been a reduction in the allocation of market work for cod at Nofima and a reduction in the allocation of the marine value creation programme of 34 million. kr, which underlines that the government of Solberg does not bet on the fishing industry. It has also been cut off in the Food Safety Authority’s work on market access for Norwegian fish, and a requested increase in the fishing deduction of 33 million has been scrapped. kr, which implies a tax tightening for the fishing industry. In addition, the Right and Advance Party of the State Budget proposed to repeal specific rules for the fishing industry in the case of permitting. Fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left contributed to its correction. But all these are unfortunate signals. All these are signals to the serious actors who want to bet and who want to invest, and to young people who might consider entering this industry, that the government is not on their team. It provides a significant opportunity for the unprofessional operators to enter and take part in the market. Even worse, when we look at fishing ports and fairways, and when we see regional policy as a whole – which could put all the work under pressure, and put considerable pressure on the fishing industry as such and on the many important processing farms that we have along the coast. So it's important to work with supervision, but it's also important to work to strengthen the serious actors, and there the government has a long way to go. It is good, much of what the Council of State says about the Labour Inspectorate, and the fact that you get the job effectively, that you get to stay out where everyday life and working life are being practiced, and that you get to grips with problems right away. It is also necessary to strengthen the work on the rights of workers and thus the ability of trade unions to address challenging situations at their place of work. That's how we can do a much more effective job of closing out the unprofessionals. But the best work we can do as a big community is to contribute to the success of the serious actors to a much greater extent. There will be much more effective work to end this very unfortunate phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e185	If there were not very many contributions to the debate, I am pleased with the contributions that have been made and with the cross-political seriousness of the situation. I think that is also a strength for further work, and that should also be so in view of the department and the further work of the Council of State, of course. I am pleased with the signal from the Council of State that an attitude-creating work – like attitude campaigns, one would like to understand it this way – is being started and reinforced in relation to how it is being worked today, and that the parties, the companies, not just the supervision, of course become involved in such an attitude-creating work. At the same time, I would like to stress very strongly what has been said by several – and which makes it difficult to deal with such issues – that the large majority, who are serious actors following the book, are not stigmatised in a matter like this, and that the further work on this also reflects it. I will end by wishing the Council of State good luck with the work and that we can have a good dialogue on these issues in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e194	Once again, thank you to the interpellant for raising an important debate on an important sector — an important industry — in our business and working life. Thanks also for the posts that have been held here. I just want to tell you about one thing that I forgot instead. As far as awareness-raising work is concerned, I recall the brochure published in cooperation with the Joint Union, the Labour Inspectorate and the Landsunification of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Industries in 2011, while also taking part today in the Fisheries Management Analysis Network, a project to ensure close cooperation between departments and departments to combat industrial crime. This means that there is now a forward-looking work going on across the board, in order to ensure increased competence and understanding of the challenge picture and the reality of the industry. It is absolutely essential and incredibly important that we have that competence when we aim to get into the companies that are sinning against Norwegian legislation and against the Working Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e201	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e215	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions by members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e224	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good and important cooperation in this matter. In all, there is a substantial body behind the comments on the matter. It is also important for the Judicial Committee to stress that it is an international objective to facilitate the repatriation of abducted children, and not least to prevent it from happening. Before I go directly to the bill, I will briefly refer to other measures that have been taken against child abduction in recent years. I think it's important, because I have a sense that some people want to make political history something different than what it actually is. For the Labour Party, it was very important that we tighten up the penalties and extend the criminal liability of international child Abduction. The fact that we had to train policemen, judges and lawyers with special skills to work specifically with international child abduction was incredibly important. This was an important contribution to speeding up the resolution of these difficult issues. A separate child-removal website, with important information for parents, was also established. Here you can also find an overview of the competent lawyers. Under the red-green government, two contact judges and one contact person in the prosecution authority were also pointed out to help them, with instructions. In addition, a group of applications for legal aid from the County of Oslo and Akershus to ensure equal treatment and better competence and to help them to be dealt with more quickly. Several important steps were taken. The impression that the government has been trying to create in the matter we are dealing with today is that the previous government is almost spending four years making a proposition that was far from being good. That's what I mean, it's untimely. I want to explain it to you: it was important for the Labour Party and the Red-Green Government to stop working on payments of statements and contributions when one of the parents had abducted a child abroad. That's why the Red-Green Government is promoting Prop. 200 L for 2012–2013, which the current government withdrew. It was time to get such a proposition when he was made. But then State Council Eriksson – the latest to Dagbladet yesterday – says that this proposition was far from complete. Then we get Prop. 39 L for 2013–2014, which we are discussing here today, where a beginner says that he ‘in essence’ corresponds to Prop. 200 L. This doesn't match well. It is in reality one change in the proposition, which the Council of State, Eriksson, also replied to in the letter to the Judicial Committee: «Proposition inequality» – Prop. 200 L and the new one, Prop. 39 L – currently applicable after the child reaches the age of 16, in cases where the abduction situation has not been resolved by the return of the child or by any other means.» [[...]] The change made by the government would have resulted in the child losing his or her contributions after the age of 16. Then, after a closer assessment, the Council of State came to the conclusion that one should go back on this and propose the same thing as Stoltenberg II, that the child should also receive his or her money in the period between 16 and 18. I think it's evidence of an attempt to stand up as a man of action, without actually being, when the reality of the matter today is that one has spent half a year changing one word. I repeat, as a collective judicial committee, that the draft law we are dealing with today is'responsive to Prop. [[...]] [[2012-2013]] 200 L As spokesman for the matter, I would also like to highlight the comments of the Committee on the availability of the proposal. It was not easy for the committee to read that there were changes in reality in Section 11. I therefore hope that the Government and the Council of State will take note of the comments of the Committee that it was ‘challenging’ to be made ‘remarkable of the actual changes it will bring about’. That being said, I am very pleased that there is a joint committee proposing that Section 11 be changed to sound as in the proposal of the Stoltenberg II Government. Then we prevent the stop in public statements and child contributions from frames the child, which is already frame enough as it is. Otherwise, I would like to point out that there is a single judicial committee that makes a proposal on this, and that the proposition now – if possible – significantly responds even more to Prop. 200 L, promoted by the Stoltenberg II Government. Once again, I would like to thank the Committee – as I said – for a good cooperation. I think it's an important matter we're dealing with today – it's important for me to stress it – I just think it's an amazing shame that we had to wait six months to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e246	I fully agree with the previous speakers that this is an important proposition that is now being promoted by the government. Increased internationalisation involves, inter alia: the number of international families with children increases, and in some of these families the conflict becomes so large that one of the parents chooses to take the child or children abroad, often to their own country of origin. Unfortunately, despite the existence of international agreements to ensure that the children are returned to the country in which they lived before the abduction and that conflicts between parents are to be resolved in the legal system in that country, international cooperation has not been enough to ensure that such matters are resolved within a reasonable time. The government drew Prop. 200 L back to assess the feasibility of other and more measures to accelerate the repatriation of children who were abducted. Among other things, the government would assess whether one could seize the abductor’s fortune here in Norway. In other words, the government wanted to signal that we would, if possible, go even further in order to safeguard the best interests of a very vulnerable group. The government parties believe it is a good investment to evaluate this thoroughly and well, so that we get all the elements. Under today's rules, child abduction itself has nothing to say about the payment of public benefits or the collection and payment of child contributions. The payment of benefits and contributions to that of the parents who have taken children abroad in breach of parental responsibility are perceived as public funding and the legitimacy of the illegal act. Therefore, it is important to make it visible that it is the opposite Stortinget wants today. I would also like to point to the possible prevention effect Right – and I am absolutely sure of all parties – hope that we will achieve this by adopting this proposition here today. The parents who are in such an uproaring situation as we are talking about here are not always acting rationally at all, but then I would point out that there is reason to hope that in some cases, at least, the laws we adopt today can help reduce the number of child abductions. I notice with considerable interest and will also point out in particular what is in the matter of evaluating the effects after three years, so that the Stortinget can come back and see if we can take further action for these children and – I would say – the entire families affected by these sensitive issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e261	As the rapporteur was involved, it is an important matter we are dealing with here today, and it is also a matter that has been requested for many, many years. Every year many children are illegally abducted from Norway, only in 2013 a total of 74 children were abducted from Norway, and 29 children were also illegally abducted into Norway. Unfortunately, there is a new record in the number of abductions. This often leads to considerable trauma, loss of schooling, and often an unsavory upbringing for vulnerable children. At the same time, the one with legal parental responsibility is back in Norway with a huge sense of insecurity, fear, and a sense of powerlessness. I think we all agree that these things are not easy to solve. It's also shown the story, and it's done a lot of work. But even though it's not easy to solve them, it's important that we don't sit quietly and close our eyes, but use the tools we actually have. Then I think it is especially that red-green representatives and the red-green government we had, talked and promised without doing anything about the matter. There is one important step we can take today, and that is to stop the flow of money from public benefits and child contributions to the one who abducts the child. I think most of us have no understanding of the need to pay child contributions, and that taxpayers have to pay public benefits to a parent who has illegally abducted a child. In fact, this can help to fund the abduction and also help the kidnapper to keep the children illegal abroad. There has been no lack of state councils, nor, that have promised to address this challenge. Under the red-greens, we've had almost a double in child abduction cases abroad. In 2005, the number was 42 children and 27 cases, while in 2013 it almost doubled to 74 children and 50 cases. I find it strange that you have been sitting quietly and looking at this without stopping the flow of money. Quite silently, you have not been, because – as I have been told – there have been promises, and there have also been suggestions from, among others. Party of progress, which has been rejected. After a lot of pressure, the red-green government sent the matter out to the hearing in 2009. Then there were many who hoped that something would finally happen. But the challenge was that although the case was sent to the hearing in 2009, it took almost four years before something actually happened. Then, in the middle of an election year, the red-green proposals to do something about the matter were promoted. It is alarming that representatives from the Workers' Party do not see the difference between these two proposals, because the proposal of the Red-Green and Stoltenberg governments was about stopping payments. The new proposal now from the government is to stop. There's been some criticism that you've spent a long time doing it. The red-greens spent eight years not getting it in place, the new government now spends five to six months getting it in place, and we say the general rule is to stop the payments. I think everyone here in this room agrees that there are several steps we have to take to prevent child abduction, and then I'm glad that the government has notified them that they are going through and looking at all possible tools that can be implemented. But today, we're putting a sentence on a breach of promises of termination of payments, because today we're actually making the proper decision that payments should, as a general rule, be stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e285	Childbirth is very serious. There's nothing new either, it's been happening all along, but it's clear that the more people move and start family across borders, the more difficult situations can arise. Many of us have been engaged for this long time, and as the representative Lene Waogslid from the Workers' Party said, there are many measures in place, but there are also many assessments that need to be made in these cases in order not to hit the children. It's important. That's why I have to say that I was among those who were almost shocked when the government withdrew this proposition, because it was very well worked through. If that were the case that there was only one word to change, we could have found a consensus on it in Stortinget if you had thought that this was urgent and important. That's why I was very shocked when the government did it, and even more shocked when I saw what they were saying, which actually wasn't very different, and where even during the treatment in Stortinget once again had to make a change to it because it didn't keep the goal. I would recommend to the representatives who believe that this matter is important, now that they will soon put this rhetoric aside in the handling of this matter. It's a fact that it's the government that's now in charge, and the first thing they did was to withdraw the bill that we could have dealt with immediately and found a good solution there and there. I would recommend the government in the future to think a little more like this, because these matters are not the issues we disagree on. There's no disagreement, it's just important that we find the solutions that make us not hit the kids. It's exactly what this round in Stortinget has gone on now, that we've found some other solutions that don't hit the kids. So some of what was said by the representative Wiborg of the Progress Party. It appears that only Norwegian parents or Norwegian children are exposed to this. But as he said in his post, there are also foreign children or other children being picked up in Norway, where we have a responsibility to work together to resolve those issues. Parents in other countries may also have it as bad as Norwegian parents. This is not a situation in which we talk about only Norwegian parents who are happy with their kids and are concerned about them. I think we'll talk about this in a way that shows that we understand that parents from all cultures and all countries can be equally good parents and have equal interest in their children. So I think we also have to look in our eyes that we also have to look for many other new grips to help with this. Then, I guess the best thing we can do for the parents who live here in the country is to see if we can strengthen family protection and take measures to help our parents solve these conflicts in advance. For many years SV has been working to see if we could put in place an international facility for the protection of children. We haven't done that since we see that it's very complicated. It can then be assumed that other countries will also have similar arrangements and will come to Norway to sort it out. But it's clear it's very difficult to know that there are children we're responsible for who we're not able to help in a very difficult situation when they're taken out of the country. I would therefore urge the Council of State to join in looking for more good measures that will enable us to both assist in trying to resolve these conflicts better while people are in the country and to find international cooperation on these issues. Here is one interest we need to have, and that is to defend these children — whether they are children who have been abducted from Norway or they are children who have been abducted to Norway. It's the children's interests we have to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e302	We are dealing with an important matter in Stortinget today – a matter in which there are no winners, but only losers. We can all imagine the horror it is, the shock it is, whether you wake up one morning or come home on a Sunday night and should have received your child and the child does not come. You don't know where the child is, and you start to ask for it, but no one can help you right away. Then one must feel powerless. I agree with Andersen – the feeling of the parents is just as bad if they wake up in Poland or Oslo. Anyway, the biggest loser is the child who's been abducted, who doesn't have the ability to defend himself and maybe doesn't have the ability to understand what's going on. That is why it is important to put in place a good code to stop contributions. It is considered very unreasonable and unfair to pay contributions when a child is abducted. I am pleased with this decision taken in the Stortinget today. It's a historic decision. We are the first country in the world to introduce such instruments into our legal system – the first country in the world! We're going ahead and we're doing new work. I'm very pleased about that, and it shows that a total accumulation takes these kinds of things very seriously. Then I want to comment briefly on the rhetoric that has been. I'll be open and honest about the reason why I withdrew this proposal. It was after my commitment to these children for eight years at Stortinget related to the question: Is there anything more we can do? When I went to the professionals in the department and started to ask, what does this bill present mean, in practice? There was a clear response that there is no general rule now to stop performance, but it is to be assessed and the performance can be stopped after further assessments. After seeing things that have recently appeared in the media, from Nordland and Nord-Trøndelag, I have not had the conscience to have a system where in one case it has been stopped in the contributions, while in the other it has not been. Then I think that we have to make sure that we go through the rules to see if there are any further issues that might be in the bill. The representative from the Right said that you can also withhold wealth. That was one of the important things we looked at further. But it also required complicated legal investigations, which meant that I chose to continue working in parallel. I accept the invitation from the representative, Andersen. I look every day for good measures to prevent children from being abducted, and also for international cooperation. I think that is absolutely necessary and important. It is also important to keep looking at other actions that can be implemented. Therefore, it was also important for me to ensure that we were able to withdraw the proposition, think about and make a good law that now stopped child support – that the main rule is to be ‘shall’. This can contribute more to cooperation between parents, contacts between parents and the return of children — in this case — to Norway. I'm very concerned about that, and I think that's very important and very correct. So it's not like we spent five months on one word. To be embarrassing, it took 121 days for me to enter the government building, until the matter was delivered to the Palace, handed over the Stortinget. It's not five months. But let's keep that out of the way. Let's be proud that we make an important decision for many children in a difficult case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e319	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e322	Unlike the proposal of the then Minister of Labour Annikken Huitfeldt, the Minister of Labour Eriksson's proposal to the Stortinget was originally that children should lose contributions after the age of 16 in cases where the abduction situation had not been resolved. Now, fortunately, all the parties, including the Right and Advance Party, have said no to this weakening of children's rights as it had been. I wonder what was the Council's original assessment. Can the Council of State explain what was his first assessment that led him to actually suggest that the children lose contributions when they are between 16 and 18 years old? Did not the Council of State also see in the first assessment that such a proposal would punish the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e329	It is a very good question that comes from the representative Awake!, and she will get a very unusual, honest answer to the question. It is simply that it was never our intention to reduce to 16 years. It was simply a mistake that happened, which I take full responsibility for. And when there is a mistake in a matter that is delivered to Stortinget, I also believe it is my duty to correct that gap. It was done. That letter was sent to the Committee, and the Committee — and a total of a great deal — has dealt with it and corrected it. I'm very happy and satisfied with that creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e334	I very much appreciate the honest answer from the Council of State. Then my follow-up question is: My councilman at Prop. 200 L for 2012–2013 ‘far from being complete’, as he said to Dagbladet yesterday, while the proposition we are dealing with today is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e342	My answer is yes, and I will explain it. My answer is yes because it was not good, as you could get into a situation where you should assess whether you could stop contributing, where you could get different results in different parts of the country, and where you didn't have a clear general rule on how to deal with this. I believe that the Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-regierung (Fremskritsparte-regierung) presented a better legislative proposal, a better legal text, as this Stortinget adopts today, by the fact that the main rule now is that the contribution should be stopped in the event of child abduction. It has been assumed that there is also more equal treatment across the country, and the large discretion that can create inequalities is avoided. So I mean – yes, it's a significant tightening. There is a significant difference between the words ‘can’ and ‘shell’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e349	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e352	I also want to comment on some of the recordings that have been made in the debate. It is possible that the representative Wiborg was not in the room under my post. I'm starting my case case manager's post by referring to some of the actions that you've taken in recent years to prevent and prevent child abduction. It also has our actions on which it has our cross-political agreement, and which I think have been important. I also said that then the Stoltenberg II government is running Prop. 200 L for 2012–2013, I also think it was time. Then I would like to underline what the representative, Karin Andersen, says that the changes that we are now referring to, which we are quite a few of, could have our solutions fine in another way. I agree very much with what the Council of State Eriksson said at the beginning of his speech – in relation to the seriousness of this matter, in relation to who the matter is about, and when the Right and Progress Party in the opposition actually meant that we spent a long time promoting the proposition we are promoting. Maybe I'd rather have seen that someone had found another way to change that word in the proposition we're dealing with today than to postpone the matter for almost half a year. I am also a little bit questioning about the discussion about ‘should’ and ‘can’. It's the same thing in the proposition that exists today, that there are some exceptions to the general rule. That was also in the previous proposition. I don't think the government council thinks there should be no individual assessments. I'm sure he means that, because it's also in the proposition. So my perception is that that shade doesn't have much meaning, at least it doesn't mean enough that the committee's members from the Right and the Advance Party have time to write comments about it, because there's no place in the notes that this is a significant change. I would have expected that to happen. What the Committee as a whole is all about is that today's proposition is essentially in line with the proposition of the Stoltenberg II Government. I'm glad, because I think it was a good proposition. I totally agree with the Council of State that what we are dealing with today is very important. As I said, it's just a shame that we had to wait until now to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e361	I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said in the debate. The representative, Mr. Werp, and the Council of State, said that the government withdrew its proposal to assess further measures, and I would like to point out that there is nothing to prevent it from making its own proposition with further measures, for example: attached to it by confiscating in the abductor's wealth and other things a mine might have made sense. But instead, wait for the changes that could have taken effect from 1 January of this year so that they can take effect at the earliest almost half a year later. The representative Wiborg says that the previous government talked and promised, but didn't do anything. That's not correct. A series of initiatives have been taken, including: the powers of prosecutors have had a strengthened role in directing them to that debt. Ein has made sure to train both policemen, judges and lawyers to work specifically with international child abduction. These are some examples. There's more. I'm sure the representative of Wiborg will be able to find out if he wants to. Then there has been some discussion associated with the re-examination of ‘shall’ and ‘can’ in Section 7. So in the previous government, there was a rule of chance that had conditions attached – conditions for the assessment to be fulfilled. The government we now have, has changed § 7, so that we now have a general rule first, and then one exception has been set up afterwards. The exemptions relate to the fact that there should be no significant burden in a specific situation and that part of the assessment of the load size should be the child’s possibility of return and risk of harm to children and abductors. I would like to point out that the exceptions they set here by the shell rule are the same conditions that were there for the Kan rule. That's what's interesting here, because that means that one of them has changed the alignment of the paragraph, but the reality of the assessment is exactly the same. It is difficult to imagine any practical example in which the outcome of such a legal assessment would be different from one proposal to another. I would like to challenge both the representative of Werp, the representative of Wiborg and the council itself to give an example, where they can imagine that the real decision will be changed. There's a legal difference, there's no real difference. I hope that the Council of State will take inward that his 121 days, when he has thought of this one word and changed the legal structure of this paragraph, have had great consequences for young people who have been abducted, because it has been postponed that the law should be applicable. I'm surprised that the Council of State is willing to do this just to stand up for action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e370	I'm just going to comment on a couple of things that have been said. It has been said from several red-greens here today that everyone agrees. And, yes, today everyone agrees, and we're getting an overall decision today. The representative Tajik was also, at the very end, until the government now spent 121 days going through this to tighten it up further, and that during that period more children could have been helped. Yes, that's also why the government shows its impatience, because as the Council of State was in, there are several areas we want to look at, among other things. That's exactly what confiscating wealth is. But as it takes more time to get through thoroughly, we thought it was important at least to get what we can do right now. Then there has been the debate, which has also been held in the media, with ‘can’ and ‘shell’. I think most people see that there's a difference between whether you can stop a payment or whether you're going to stop a payment. If that is how everyone agrees, I wonder why, when the Stoltenberg government presented the proposal, it was quite clear that you should stop the payments, which you did not choose to propose. I do not doubt that there are many – even here today – who have a broad and burning commitment to this matter. But if you have a burning commitment to this matter, I think it's very strange that you put eight years in government without doing anything about these cash payments. It is particularly strange that, when the case was being consulted in 2009, four years – until the election year – were expected to come up with a proposal that was not discussed either. So I don't think the power of action has been much to boast about, and then I'm glad that after 121 days we get this done and keep what we promise, and also what we fought for in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e379	I think it's almost embarrassing to hear the contributions from the Progress Party that are only concerned with who did what when. The point is that we now have a law that is legal, practical, not different from what we put forward. For the assessment themes are the same. What's changed is that it's a paragraph that the government has now presented, that we have had to change in the Storting. The Council of State should have all the credit because he is completely honest and says that it did not turn out well enough. So the point here is not what we from the red-green parties do, that's what the Progress Party chooses to focus on in this case. And that's just to be concerned with their seas and that they should be actionable when they came into government. The trade power was intended to delay the case and to present a case that had to be changed in Stortinget. Now I think you can end up with this gnawing, to put it straight out. It's probably not a parliamentary expression, but I'm getting tired. Then the representative Vågslid was up and said something that was extremely important, and I also believe that the Council of State agrees and sees the benefits of. We who have worked on issues with disadvantaged children, whether it is child protection or child abduction – and often this is the same thing – have gradually seen and become aware of how little training there is in the various professional professions in talking to children in crisis and with parents in crisis. Some of those who have had the best training in this are actually health professionals. However, with regard to training for teachers, kindergarten teachers, child protection, police, all the professional bodies that come into contact with families in crisis, they should also receive good training in talking to the child. Too often, the child can give some signals that it is extremely important to catch, that the parents will not give and that can enable the child to be rescued in time, but also perhaps able to be more – to say the same – close to the problem when the professionals concerned are talking to their parents. Therefore, it is extremely important that we now look at the training of all professional professionals — basic education, but also offer good follow-up training and schooling in how to talk to children. Now we also have the fundamental rights of children to be heard in matters relating to them, and matters affecting them. To put it that way: in some cases, this can actually mean that you can solve these matters at the best of the child at a long earlier time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e388	The President would point out that the representative is quite right, ‘smell’ is outside the parliamentary language, even if one is tired of listening to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e391	I think it is quite interesting to hear the debate, especially in view of the first speech by the rapporteur. Let's put away the rhetoric and the quarrel of the little things and look at what we're really doing, and that it's done a lot of important and good work from this room to prevent child abduction. But who is it that continues the rhetoric, which in post-posts is occupied by 121 days? At least it's not the government parties. In addition, I cannot help but take the following discretion: As I said in my main post, I have not used 121 days to think about one word. I also said that we considered how we can tighten up on other things, but found that more and more investigations were required, while there is a clear difference in the law considering the general rule that children's contributions should now be stopped. Then the representative Andersen himself stated that because many and difficult assessments are required in such cases, one should then take time for the many and difficult assessments. It was also the reason for the previous government parties that it took four years — over 1,400 days — from the hearing replies to the submission of the proposal. Then you get criticism that other pages were also evaluated in 121 days. It is for me to drive the rhetoric and the game that the case rapporteur initially said you should not do, further. And it's a little incomprehensible for me to see that criticism, and I can't take it seriously either. On the other hand, what I think we should be happy about today is that the Storting is making an important decision, that we are the first country in the world with an aggregate growth that adopts clear legal rules on how to deal with welfare benefits and child contributions when abducting children from Norway. We're the first country in the world in which a unanimous growth attempts to facilitate a clearer law to ensure that more children can come back to where they legitimately belong. Let's focus on those who are the biggest losers – the children – in this case, and not the terms of a regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e402	I notice that there is an attempt to write history from the pulpit here today. I find that very regrettable. It is therefore not the case that this issue was put on the agenda in 2005 or 2009 or 2013 or 2014. We who have followed this theme with great interest know that this has been on the agenda for decades and with increasing intensity. And then you start counting days. I think it's sad, and I don't have to remind the red-greens that they had the power for less than 3,000 days without anything coming up until the final decision here in the hall. The case did not start in 2005. Then there was cross-political involvement in this matter. If you look at the protocols, you can see that it is presented with representatives from the Right, Christian People's Party, SV and several parties together who have tried to resolve this matter more than ten years ago. So we're here today, by goal. We've come together on a decision that solves – solves is enough to deal with too much – but it's a contribution to being able to mitigate a really serious problem for those who are hit and get it difficult. Let's put the polemic aside. I support the Council of States – let's rather rejoice. I also agree with very much of what Andersen says, on the same line – let's look forward to it. If you're busy writing history, yes, we're going from the Right to contribute to it and really nuance the impression someone's trying to create from the pulpit here today. But I don't think either place, time or case justifies it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e411	I'm going to try to justify my criticism, and why I would strongly stress that this is not about rhetoric. To repeat, what the government achieved by drawing the bill and re-presenting it was, among other things. one had to draw a suggestion. I think it's nice that the Council of State admits that what was at stake was a mistake. But it was a serious mistake. So when the council says that we should care about the children and not about the conditions in a regulation, I'm the case spokesman for this setting disagree that we can say it that easily. Practical consequences for the children would be felt for the gap detected by the Committee. That is why committee work is important. But it's underlined in the comments from a collective justice committee to the government that the availability was too bad, and I think it was a serious mistake. Then I'll give praise to the council because he says it just as it is. But in my case chairman's post, I pointed out in particular the fact that the committee spent quite a time discovering the gap that would have economic consequences for the children that we all care about and talk about. That's why I think it's important to get into Stortinget for me as a case spokesperson. Then we are politically happy that the case is attached. I want to ask everyone who might be interested to read the record after this debate – it is not the Labour Party who has talked about the number of days, we are just disappointed that when one drew a proposition with bragging and bram, one should perhaps see that it would come more than that. But leave it alone, we're making good decisions today. We're some people, but I think one should notice the criticism, which also comes from the committee, of the so-called gap. Because it's the way regulations and paragraphs make sense in people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e424	The representative Wiborg asked in his article about why the Stoltenberg administration did not do anything about the kann- and shell-rule, if there is no difference between them. The answer actually arises in the design of the question, namely that this change does not make any practical difference. The representative Wiborg also said in his post that the new government has tightened further in. I have asked for documentation that they have tightened further in. I have not received that documentation - documents that this change is a real tightening. The representative said that there is a difference of substance between possible and should, and pointed out that it must be understood by everyone. Yes, linguistically, there's a difference in substance, and in the daily life, there's a difference in the amount of change, but what that means in legal terms, depends on the rest of the paragraph. It is very difficult to imagine that a rule with clear criteria and a shell rule with clear exceptions should not give the same result when the rest of the assessment theme in the paragraph is exactly the same. Then I want to stress that I'm not busy with history writing. I don't think it's interesting at all. The only thing that's interesting, and that's important, is the reality of these kids, who have experienced being abducted, or who have to be in danger of being abducted. I think it's important that in the future, too, a person has a very clear political focus on designing more measures that can strengthen the situation of these young people, and help them out of the extreme and vulnerable situation in which they are put, entirely without their own debt. But I'm now recording that when we have a discussion about the actions that are being undertaken, it has some real effect or one, it's characterized as rhetoric by the positions. However, the Labour Party will also focus in the future on the situation of young people, and continue to take policy action in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e438	I have to say that I do not feel affected or taken by the criticism from SV that this is embarrassing for the Progress Party. This is a very good thing, it is a happy thing, it is an important thing, and I must say that the criticism from SV seems illogical. What's in focus here is that we get an automatic way of holding back public support, holding back child welfare and that support. It's very important. You get rid of the typical exceptions. We can turn it around in our head -- we've turned the system around a little bit. That's good, then you get an automatic in'shell' instead of an automatic in 'can'. But remember, there's kids we're talking about here. There are children who should be focused. For children, and also for the family, it is traumatic when children are taken out of their homes, where, after all, they have their community with friends, family, neighbors, kindergarten and school, to another country. Then, of course, it's important to take action there, so we don't stimulate child abduction. It is also traumatic for the parents who are left in Norway and pay money and contributions to children who unfortunately are not allowed to see, until children who unfortunately are not allowed to participate in the assignment, until children to whom they are unfortunately not allowed to be part of the growth. I think this is a good thing. I think the criticism becomes a little unnecessary and a little unreasonable. I think we can get together now to make sure that we can work so that fewer children are taken out of Norway and abducted to foreign countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e449	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e452	This last article showed that the representative Johnsen has not understood the proposition – that the assessment themes are now exactly the same, and that my critic was referring to the argument here in the Chamber and not the matter. The matter is exactly as the red-green government put it forward, and we could have adopted it a long time ago, if the government had not withdrawn the matter. So this is one thing that comes from the red-green government. It came back in two words changed, but the assessment themes are exactly the same. Legally, it would be quite the same, with a paragraph that the Stortinget had to change, because it was not worked through enough by the Council of State of the Advancement Party. I believe that the criticism in this Chamber from the Progress Party is becoming completely unreasonable. On the contrary, this is a case SV has fought for in the government and got out. I'm very happy that we're adopting it now. But there was no reason to have this extra round we had to have now, in order to put in place such an important law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e459	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e475	There's a lot of good things in Norwegian school. Thousands of teachers do a great job every day, and there are many arrows pointing in the right direction. But even though a lot is good, there are always things that can get better, and we have to take the challenges we see seriously. I would like to point out in particular three major challenges. Firstly, the decline in secondary education is too high, and we know that students with a weak socio-economic background, students who have had poor results at lower class levels, boys and students of foreign origin are overrepresented in non-response statistics. The second major challenge is the growing need for special education. It has been a policy objective of education for several years to provide as many students as possible with training in the context of the ordinary teaching of a class community. But today there are about 51,000 primary school students who have individual decisions on special education, and the proportion has increased from 6 pst. by students in the 2005-2006 school year to 8.3 pst. today. That's an increase of 38 pst. of 8 years. These figures show that there are too many people who today do not have the benefit of ordinary education. KS has tried to find the reasons for this increase through a research project. One of the reasons they point out is that many schools have entered a vicious circle, where there is too little resources for differentiation of ordinary education, and that it leads to an increased need for special education, which in turn gives less resources to ordinary education, which in turn increases the need for special education. The third major challenge is that too many people leave primary school as functional illiterates. For these students, the school has failed. Reading and writing skills are crucial for acquiring knowledge and skills in other subjects as well. For every week that goes, the one that is functionally illiterate will end up in the back of the lap. These are three major challenges. But what is the solution? I don't think there's just one simple answer to that question. But I think one of the most important answers is early effort. It's important to bring the students from the beginning. It is in the first few years that the basis for further learning and development is laid. But early effort – what is it? It is important that this concept be filled in with concrete content. Some responses were identified in the EEAA Early lifelong learning effort, which was addressed in 2007. Some measures included language stimulation in kindergarten, fruit and vegetables in schools, several screening tests and several school hours for the youngest students. The intentions were good, but the results have unfortunately failed. Now I believe that we need to look around for new measures that can have more impact. I believe that one such measure may be to increase the teacher's density at the lowest levels of the class. This can be done either by putting a roof on the size of a group, so that there are fewer students in the classroom at the same time, or by introducing a two-teacher system, where the teachers work together two and two. If each teacher is responsible for fewer students, it will be easier to provide individual pupils with customized training. It would be positive both for the strongest students and for those who have different learning challenges, it would mean enormously much for the individual, and it would be positive for the whole school. If more people get learning outcomes from ordinary teaching, the need for special education becomes less. This will release resources that can be used in ordinary education. So the negative spiral, which many schools today have entered, and which KS also refers to, can finally be broken. If we look at the development of group sizes in the Norwegian school in recent years, we see clear results from the evil spiral. Group sizes are growing, and special education eats an increasingly large part of the cake. While in the 2001 / 2002 school year it was only 14 pst. Of the students who attended a school with an average group size of more than 20 students, the corresponding figure was 25 pst. in the school year 2012/2013. There are examples of municipalities that have already managed to reverse the evil spiral. The bet in the Dovre municipality has been mentioned in this room several times already. A separate model of early action has been developed there. Until 2009, Dovre had a higher proportion of pupils with special education than the national average. In the peak years of 2007/2008, the figure was around 10 pst. It is high, and more people received special education in youth than in childhood. In the autumn of 2011, the schools in Dovre introduced a new model with the following main features: two teachers in all first and second stage subjects with more than 13 pupils in the class, and in the basic subjects Norwegian, math and English at all stages. In addition, emphasis has been placed on empowerment among teachers and on a number of research-based teaching schemes. The proportion of students in need of special education was halved in just one year, and since then has been below 5 pst. The reason was that several of the students who needed special education were now able to benefit from ordinary education. Special education costs were reduced from 4 million. NOK to a little over 1 million. kr per year. So it was 3 million. kr extra available for the ordinary course of instruction. We see that the Swedes are now taking a similar approach to solving their challenges, and it may well be worth seeing what the Right Sister Party in Sweden is doing. Earlier this year, the Swedish government launched a so-called ‘low-stage lift’, a commitment to strengthening the lowest levels in the school. The effort is directed towards the training of several primary school teachers and at raising the quality of education through smaller classes. The government's adding 2 billion. kr on the table for a permanent bet from 2015, which applies for 1st to 3rd years. In addition, the Swedes are taking another exciting step. They set a hairy goal that all students should be able to read and understand simple texts by the end of 1st grade. Now you start one year later at school in Sweden than in Norway, so if we take age into account, we might say in Norway that all students will be able to read and understand simple texts by the end of the second year of school. I think that such a goal would give good results. It would raise awareness of the need for students to learn to read in the first two years, and it would make it harder for schools to push the challenges ahead and not tackle the children’s learning challenges right away. I think early efforts are the right answer to many of the major challenges we have in school today, and I believe that early efforts are about using more of the good resources, teaching resources, on the youngest students. For this reason, I would like to ask the following questions: Will the Council of State be involved in a targeted early effort, with increasing teacher density, raising skills and clarifying knowledge objectives at the lowest levels of the class?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e508	I would like to thank Mr Tyvand for taking up an important discussion, which is entirely in line with the important priorities of the government, namely that everyone should be able to read and write when they leave the Norwegian school, and then the effort must start early. The representative Tyvand used the example of Sweden. It is good that Sweden is sometimes used as a positive example; it is very often used as a bad example. However, looking at the Scandinavian countries at the beginning of the 2000s, both Norway and Sweden had very disappointing results in international school surveys. They're in themselves just an indicator. We allow ourselves to compare with other countries. It's not like football World Cup, so it's not a goal in itself to cut high, but we allow ourselves to see how things stand in Norwegian school compared to other countries. The difference between Sweden and Norway was very simple. The difference was that in Norway there was a government, consisting of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, which carried out the big school promise that was called the Knowledge Promise, while in Sweden there was no PISA shock, nor any major changes in the school. I think it's a very good point of the representative Tyvand to ask for clear learning goals for the very smallest children in school. After reform 97 — with another political majority pushing through previous school start-ups and qualifying a number of kindergarten teachers to become school teachers all of a sudden — there was hardly any clear knowledge target for the children who were to start school. It changed the promise of knowledge. So in the Norwegian curriculum, for example, it says: students shall be able to read ‘simple texts with context and understanding on paper and screen’ and ‘use their own knowledge and experience to understand and comment on the contents of read texts’ after the second year. So I fully agree with the representative Tyvand that this is an important point, but I believe that the tipping of the learning goals in the school came with the Knowledge promise, and the Christian People's Party should be proud that you were a contributor. It was other parties on the Stortinget that warned and warned against the new knowledge policy and held on to another type of school, but it finally turned out that the knowledge policy, the knowledge school and the knowledge promise had come to be. Those representatives are saying something different today, at least those parties. I also agree with the representative Tyvand that we have a special educational problem that has not been resolved. He's pointing at it. Although the figures show a slight decrease in the use of special education, the use of special education has increased dramatically if it is seen in a slightly larger context. Now, of course, it's a two-edged sword, because on the one hand it's good to have special education for those who need it – it's not the case that the goal is zero special education; it's good that we have arranged education and extra support for those who need it – but if the special education on the other hand gets such an extent that it makes it possible for many people who really should have been in a separate classroom situation, instead of being outside and in addition – to whom the previous government opened up – not necessarily to be taught by people with clear formal competence, we have a problem. I believe that Dovre is a very good example in a good way to attack this, precisely by going in and looking critically through the use of special education and gradually working to transfer resources from special education to the usual classroom situation. I think Dovre can be a good example in several ways. It hasn't been researched and evaluated on all the bows and edges, but it looks like, in the examples I've seen, another important thing has been understood there, and that's that this isn't just about resources. If only resources were involved, Norway, which spends almost the most money at school by all OECD countries, would be at the top. You can also look at the teacher's density in Norway. I fully agree that more teachers are needed, there are more children in school. We have to have more teachers, if not fewer teachers per student, and that's not a goal. We've also kept the 600 teachers that the red-greens at the very least of their time let in to try to fulfill their very ambitious promises of teacher's density in school. The point is, if you look at the teacher's density figures, it's not like there's a very clear relationship between the schools with the highest teacher's density and the best-educated schools. That's why I think what you've seen in the Dovre municipality -- and as you've seen in other municipalities in Norway that do well and that can teach students what they're going to do -- is that it's not just about the number of teachers, not just about resources, but about content and quality. This government has some clear priorities. That means that we have chosen to bet on some things, and I have to say that seven months after we joined, I think it would be very unwise for the government to change priorities. Now we first have to deliver on what we have to do, and our starting point is that the most important investment we can make is that good teachers get even better. There are different studies, different research, as regards teacher's density, as cracks. What we know for sure is that teaching density itself does not lead to a better school. The way you use the teaching skills is absolutely crucial. We also know that the competence and knowledge of the teacher are important. Norwegian primary schools have relatively high teacher density compared to other countries. It is also worth noting that in the Training Act there is a provision for early work in primary school, § 1-3, where, among other things. says that between 1 and 4. Steps shall be taken by municipalities to provide ‘adapted training in Norwegian or Sami and mathematics between, inter alia, means particularly high learning density, and is particularly directed towards pupils with weak reading and accounting skills’. In 2009, when this provision came, it also came about 1 billion. kr extra in the frame premium, so that it must be accompanied by the red-green. My point is that of course teacher density is not immaterial, but the most important thing is classroom education, quality and competence – and interaction, that is, you can build on the school. That's why this government's priorities, which we're going to hold on to, are a gigantic continuing education promise, a teacher's vow, to ensure that good teachers can get even better, to ensure that all teachers have the formal qualifications we want, and to ensure that you can get professionally filled through their course. It's building career paths in school, so it'll be possible to have a career in school without necessarily having to go to the administration. It is – in addition to continuing the pressure on reading training, which seems to have been relatively successful in school, and which came in the wake of just the knowledge requirements of Kristin Klemet, the Christian People's Party, the Right and Left Government and the Knowledge Promise – to be raised in real science at school through an enhanced real-life science strategy. It's important. In addition, it is worth mentioning also a practical challenge. It's that we know that in the SSB projections, it's not that we have more than enough teachers in the future, so we have to work with quality, do good teachers – for them there are many of them – even better, and at the same time work with recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e534	The Council of State indicated that the government has already done a lot to raise the quality of Norwegian school. That's absolutely right, and I want to give praise to the Council of State for that. At the same time, little of what has been done so far, which can be called a targeted bet on early efforts, in my eyes. This is about raising the overall quality of education – that’s good – but we’ve seen little to target early action. Continuing 600 teaching positions in high school is good and good, but it's not early. So the Council of State showed that the research results in terms of teacher's density, cracks, and that's right. But then he says that the teacher's density itself will not produce results. I fully agree – it must be quality also in the education given, of course, and it is a major challenge that there are too many who work in school, who are unskilled, and who do not have formal, good enough competence. But it's interesting that when the Swedish Prime Minister presents his bet, he just points to research results. And the research that shows that increasing teacher density in itself has little effect is largely based on foreign studies conducted in foreign schools. Then we have to be aware that the Norwegian school is slightly different from the school in other countries, because we have very few students in special schools and very many students with different learning challenges in normal classrooms. Analysis of national samples and differences in performance between schools and municipalities carried out in 2008 and 2010 shows that increasing teacher density can have a positive effect for students who are initially weak, for students with a low socio-economic background and for students with a different ethnic origin. These are exactly the same students that we see today are overrepresented in the non-response statistics. So if increasing teacher density can help these students, yes, then increasing teacher density will be a rather accurate and targeted tool for solving the major challenges in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e545	As I said, I fully agree with the representative that special education is an area that we must look at, especially because it has grown so rapidly. I believe that it has not been addressed or solved well enough in the years that have been. So we've had a reading strategy in the school in the wake of Kristin Klemet and the Bondevik II government's knowledge promise that has worked pretty well. We see that for real science, in particular, we have not had the corresponding stabilisation of the results. Also in terms of reading, we are now – at least according to the international surveys – slightly above the average. For math, it's a downward curve. When we're going to put forward an enhanced real science strategy, early efforts are of course part of it. So to the discussion of teacher density. Of course, there are a lot of municipalities in Norway that have a very good experience of deploying extra teachers in the hours sometimes — or doing so on a more permanent basis. One of its possibilities arose precisely because of the removal of the central charge for a class division, which allowed schools to use their resources freer and e.g. include more teachers who worked together in teams. The questions about national school policy are: what priority should we give, what action is the most important, and for what is the most important? I have said that this government has some clear priorities on which we went to elections, and those priorities must be implemented first. Of course, it is only positive if municipalities want to try, strengthen or otherwise work with their teaching resources or hire additional teachers. There's a full possibility, like this. The Dovre municipality has done. In terms of teacher's density, I think you should wait and see what these 600 state-funded teaching positions that you've got into school, and that came to the bottom of the red-green period – now it didn't make a very big impact on teacher's density, it's fluctuated at least over the last eight years – has resulted. Then you can gain some experience from it. Unfortunately, these positions were allocated without making a good and solid research work around it, but it must still be possible to draw some experience from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e558	Early effort is beneficial. The earlier measures are put in place to facilitate, correct and motivate, the more likely students are to succeed in school and get a good way out of work. I believe that kindergarten is the example of early efforts, and there has been a formidable development in this field in recent years. In Norway, now 97 pst. by all five-year-olds in kindergarten, giving unique opportunities to see, discover and deploy child development measures. We know, for example. a lot about how much kindergarten has to say for children’s language development, underlined by Mari Rege at the NHO conference. Anyone who develops a good language as a two-year-old learns even more as a five-year-old. I'm proud of the formidable efforts that have been made to expand the kindergarten sector in the last eight years. It is, in my view, one of the most important measures when we talk about early action. A six-year-old starts school full of learning and eager to move on, learn more and know more. Border is drawn, poem is taught, songs are sung, numbers are put into system and the alphabet is taught – A for monkey, F for violin – that's it now! But the eagerness to learn can go quite quickly. Some didn't get enough challenges, some thought it was too challenging, some thought it was a bit much to sit still for the whole three blocks, some look bad, some hear bad, and some feel that everything is just floating in each other – a complex and demanding image of a very average team of six-year-olds. It takes a lot of effort for a school to meet these needs. Students from 1 to 4 steps enjoy school. They are motivated and want to learn. It has to be exploited, so we increased the number of hours in Norwegian, math and English most at the lowest stages. In 2013, there were 1.8 million more teachers in primary school than in 2005. That is why we introduced teaching aids, strengthened teaching skills and changed teacher training, so that it became more specialised in subjects and stages. Starter training in Norwegian school has, in my opinion, become very good – yes, I want to go so far as to say that it is one of the best Norwegian school has to go to. However, although awareness and the impact of early efforts are high, and more concrete measures are being taken, as many have mentioned, there is in particular one area where we have challenges, where we have not succeeded in distorting resources, and there is special education. 75 pst. by all those who receive special instruction, it shall be obtained from 5 to 10 stages. 25 pst. receive special education in the years in which they are actually going to learn to read, write and calculate basics. These are huge resources, enormous amounts of pedagogical competence, resources and competences that have to be twisted earlier in school, and here we haven't managed to get far enough. Here it will require a system change at school owner level and leaders from government. The working party acknowledges the need for further efforts to give children a good start. This is why last year we launched a reading, writing and calculation lift with additional intensive training in basic skills for those students below the expected level – a system that should be free of long decision-making processes and bureaucracy, a system that focuses on waiting and seeing attitudes. The Minister of Knowledge and I come from Porsgrund, and when I agreed to adopt the Quality Plan for School and kindergarten in Porsgrund a few years ago, we actually said that our goal is that all children should be able to read at the end of the second grade. Some were uncertain about that wording. “They can’t promise this, it’ll be impossible to enforce,” someone said. Maybe, but frankly, what school politicians are we, if we don't have ambitions for our students to break the reading code at the earliest possible time in school? So, of course, we know that people are different, but that shouldn't prevent us from having goals and that we're going to do what we can to achieve those goals. Thank you to the interpellant for putting this topic on the agenda. The Labour Party looks forward to the follow-up to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e575	I agree with the interpellant Anders Tyvand that an early school effort challenge is to fill the concept of a content that can be operationalised and that can lead to a change in practice. We've heard a lot about the Oslo School, about the Drammen school effort and how Bergen's municipality is raising its school results, and I know that the Minister of Knowledge is concerned about what's going on in the different municipalities and the experiences that are taking place. It is important that we share knowledge and increase the experience base, and we now see that many active school owners are taking action to improve early work, including within the current framework. In my own municipality, Kristiansand, the project FLIK, which stands for research-based environmental development in the municipality of Kristiansand, is now being carried out. This is a comprehensive project involving 71 kindergartens – both private and public – with 3,500 kindergarten children, 39 schools with 10,500 students and around 2,600 kindergarten teachers, teachers, trade union workers and managers, and 85 professionals linked to the various guidance services, as well as the staff of the growing-up sector. The project is followed by researchers from the University of Ålborg, the University of Hedmark and the University of Agder, with Thomas Nordahl and Lars Qvortrup in charge. It is a comprehensive project, and as far as I know, it is unique in its kind in Norway. On 28 March, a six-column article in the Danish newspaper Politiken entitled ‘How to Strengthen Schools and Childbearings.’ The article was about this very project, and it says: ‘In Kristiansand in Norway, the municipality is implementing a whole new way of developing kindergartens and schools.’ The project, adopted by the City Council in December 2012, has already resulted in new knowledge, which in turn will affect practices in the municipality of Kristiansand. Nearly a quarter of the four- and five-year-olds in our kindergartens have poor language skills. A large part of these children strive to participate in the social community with other children. In relation to the most common perception that children become ‘school-oriented’, the results of this project suggest that they are rather ‘disciplined’, regardless of their school status and level. This means that there is reason to focus on teachers’ pedagogical practices and professional knowledge. New knowledge has emerged in this project and established knowledge has been enhanced, but most of all this project has seemed to provide school owners with a powerful tool to both monitor and follow up the challenges in the emerging sector with targeted action where needed. Early effort requires good monitoring, it requires knowledge, it requires focus, and it requires enforcement. A research-based, or evidence-based, learning environment, as is now being developed in the FLIK model, can be a good tool for early efforts, and it has been particularly positive that both the kindergarten and school sectors have been united in this joint effort. It builds culture for learning, and it contributes to a holistic thinking across the growing-up sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e594	First, I would like to thank the representative for raising a debate on a very important matter, and I also fully agree with Mr Tyvand that early efforts are important, and it is the teachers who are going to give this to the students. For this reason, the government has invested in the teacher's promise in continuing education. Never before has so many teachers been given the opportunity to become better than under today's government. This – combined with a clear commitment to basic education and the requirements for deepening teachers to teach basic subjects – is action that we know works and that is why governments are putting a heavy strain on. We know that today we have approx. 9 000 teachers in school who do not have the education we require, and when we are now tightening the requirements for teaching skills in teacher training, it goes without saying that increasing teacher density with qualified teachers is unfortunately not feasible today. In the long term, it can be a fine goal. This government is counting on new measures that we know work – the most important first, i.e. continuing training. Norway has the third highest level of expenditure per student in the OECD and has a high level of teacher density compared to other countries. Several OECD reports clearly show that teacher density is not the most critical. The OECD Director Andreas Schleicher just made this point in his speech at the annual NHO conference this year. He further pointed out that teachers’ opportunities for career development are an important tool for better learning. Students’ motivation for their own learning is also important, and studies show that it can be better among Norwegian students. Early efforts will play a key role in improving the results. For a long time, a wait-and-see attitude, which several have been involved in their posts, has marked Norwegian school. This one has to end. School management, teachers and students must be held accountable. Students who are attached deserve to be taken seriously, and follow-up must be inserted immediately. The same must apply to those students who are in front of the others and who are in the habit of teaching. Early efforts and adapted training are interrelated. One is not possible without the other. The idea of ‘own-learning responsibility’ as a method must be abandoned. Instead, the good teacher must be given the opportunity to use his or her skills and not least his or her time to learn away. An important tool here will be to get other occupational groups into school. Health sisters and others who can care for the students must enter school to a greater extent, so that the teacher has more time for the individual student. This too is closely linked to early efforts. We need to have early action in all areas, so that the necessary action is taken immediately. As mentioned above, OECD Director Schleicher highlighted the importance of students’ motivation for learning and that Norway scores rather weakly here. In this area, clearer knowledge goals will be important. In several cases, the Norwegian school has found that there is too little ambition on behalf of the students. The progress party has great expectations for our children and for our teachers. Active policies must therefore be pursued to facilitate a greater follow-up of the school to individual students according to the level at which they are at. The size was behind the objectives in Meldning. St. 22 for 2010–2011 on a youth step that increases students’ motivation and mastery. In this context, the Ministry of Knowledge developed the strategy Motivation and mastering for better learning. This work must be intensified by the Right Party Government. I am confident that the government will deliver visible quality-enhancing results here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e615	In Norway, municipalities have a training obligation, i.e. the obligation to have a good school and kindergarten where parents can send their children and have confidence that they get the maximum and the best they can find. For it is the parents who have the primary responsibility for education and training. The school will help, and the community, the municipality, must have arrangements for this. So society has a duty to do this. I'm very happy that this is taken up, because here's the most important thing we have, namely, our kids and giving them an optimal childhood. It is also important to develop the potential of the population as early as possible, so that we can achieve the best in terms of future jobs, innovation and living conditions. Good educators discover what is happening in a classroom. It is therefore necessary to have sufficient adult contact, but also with sufficient pedagogical competence, so that teachers can identify as early as possible what is needed in a class. That is why I hope that teacher training, as well as providing varied general education, also gives students a good practical situation. In addition, I have to mention that assistants who get into a teaching situation can often have good real-life skills and other kinds of knowledge that it can be very important to have in the class. This early intervention is incredibly important to balance social differences. An individual must provide early language stimulation and not least provide security. There are many kids looking for security, and there must be a class and a school trying to give. It will create less disqualification in high school a few years later. It can prevent the exclusion of adult working life if you have had a good childhood with a good basic education, and it can also give you the ability to better convert and re-train, because it seems to be something that comes in our time and in our society. I have experienced myself as a class manager for 12 students, and then I have also been a class manager – on a dispensation – for a class of 32 students. I can therefore say with certain experience that having the lowest possible student gives increased quality in the classroom. Then you can easily see talents, you can see who needs extra training, and you can see what's going on for each student. Later, I have been a school principal for almost 30 years for children and young people. It's been a great wealth, but I have to say that it's often the local economy that determines how quality becomes seventh and last. It is clear that school library, media library, home and school materials — all these are important measures, and not least cultural schools. Because what counts to the seventh and last is creating well-being and learning. Then you can come up with the basic skills, then you can come and demand that they learn better math, reading and writing. You have to have a good atmosphere in the classroom, the students have to feel safe and meet a varied everyday life with situation changers and good content. Then they'll learn, and then they'll move on. So finally, what's the key? In my opinion, the key is that which is available to the municipalities. It is the central leaders in class divisions and in increasing teacher and educational density. I think that's the key. I want us to look at it as the best investment we can make. It's raising teacher's density and making early efforts towards children. I'm sure that will work. It will work in terms of personality development, it will work for the benefit of the local environment, learning, future jobs and innovation. If you have good comfort in the classroom, the kids will learn the basic skills quickly, and it stimulates learning. Then it will counteract boredom. So my recommendation in this discussion is to strengthen the teacher's hours at the lowest ages, and that can be done by classing and increasing teacher's density.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e630	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important item on the agenda. This is not the first time we are discussing early action, but I think we must have it on the agenda at all times. It is politically and professionally trained and decided that a greater focus on early school interventions could prevent students from falling from late school, and that learning difficulties they had to have early schooling should not grow larger. However, there is little to agree on principles and objectives unless they are followed up in practical policies and actions. The red-green government expanded the number of hours spent in primary school in two stages, as well as the extension of the number of hours to three cycles during the period 2002–2005. So it has become more and more hours to ‘make it on’, but the school’s ability to do early work depends on more than the number of hours of instruction made available to a teacher. There is also no demonstrable correlation between several hours and higher learning outcomes. When Finland does very well in international surveys, this is despite the fact that Finland is among the least educated countries. In other words, it is not the teaching time itself that is crucial for learning outcomes. For Finland, there are clearly other factors that give good results. The ability of the school to meet the expectations of a good school depends primarily on the quality of education and the development of each school and of each classroom. Now we have to follow up with quality assurance of the content of the already extended school day. For the centre party, this is far more important than ever to fill in with more hours. The teacher is here the most important input to promote learning. We are therefore pleased that the government is following up and expanding the efforts of the continuing training that the red-green government started. We are concerned that we need teachers who have sound expertise but who also master pedagogics and vary in methodology adapted to the needs of students in the learning situation. Therefore, the changes that were made in teacher training with more emphasis on pedagogics and learning skills were very important in our view. Then there's someone who's been involved in international research. According to Hattie's studies, the quality of the teacher is more important than the size of the group. Yes, and that's assuming the teacher does the same in a big class as in a small one. But if you're two teachers in the same class or you have a group of fewer students, you're more able to do more varied and adapted teaching. It's not just I've been a teacher in this hall, I understand, I think there's more people who have experienced it. That's why the number of students per teacher is important. The interpellant refers to an example from the Dovre municipality. That's a very good example, I think. Dovre is also a small municipality, still run by the Centre Party – a very committed central party rapporteur. In my opinion, the Council of State perhaps took a little light on the results they have now obtained, but I will give the Council of State time and space to come back to the matter when we see how the development of the Dovre works. Because that's the way it's always in school that things take time before we see good results. Dovre has over halved the need for special education in just a short time because they have been committed to meeting the needs of students early. They don't only have two-teacher systems, but they've combined it with empowerment among teachers and several research-based teaching schemes. It's working. But it has been absolutely essential that the school owners have been willing to spend extra money for a period of time. The Dovre politicians did. There will, of course, be an economic humiliating effect during a transitional period, and in Dovre the extra resources were allocated by its municipality in approximately. three years. It is still the case in Dovre that the students who are going to have special education receive it, but the money they save on spes.ped.-hours is used to strengthen ordinary teaching and to enable two teachers in basic education and the sharing of hours in the practical-esthetic subjects of the older students. This form of redisposal has made the municipality wise. One of the prerequisites for success has been close dialogue on all fronts. The PP service has been a shrinkage in work. They are the ones who assess the need for special education for the pupils against basic staff. They have also had close dialogue with their parents. I'm optimistic on behalf of the school. I believe that if the school owners are able to engage in good dialogue with all parties, we can manage to bring down the number of hours for special education and turn the ‘tract’ from late to early action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e659	The interpellant addresses an important question for debate, and I think everyone can agree that early action is important. Then he travels a little bit of the problem that is going to fill the term ‘early effort’ with concrete content. I also think we can agree that ‘early effort’ is not one thing; there are many different measures that need to be taken to ensure that we succeed in early efforts. Some of what the interpellant travels today as a measure was also some of what was up in Wednesday's spontaneous question hour, what was going on in teacher's density, recruitment standards, etc. We can probably -- a lot of us at least -- agree that it's important with a lot of teachers, but then it's a prerequisite that we actually have those teachers. There we have a big challenge today. We know that we are going to lack 11,000 annual works in 2020. We know that there are 9 000 unskilled, or non-qualified, teachers working at school today. When we talk about what's going on in special education, we also have a challenge in relation to what teacher powers we actually have at our disposal to deploy for those students who need it the most. With so many non-qualified, and with such a screaming need for teachers in the future, we have quite major challenges in this area. There's something we have to deal with, because if we're going to get somewhere early, we have to know that what we put in by teachers' powers is competent educators. Now Mari Rege from the University of Stavanger was mentioned by the representative Thinning Bjørnø earlier. She has focused on what is going on early – not in school, but in kindergarten. Because if you're going to talk about early work, it's about doing it as early as possible, and kindergarten is in that way a great opportunity. If we're talking about pedagogues and the lack of pedagogues, what we really lack in kindergarten today is enough with kindergarten teachers. It is not that just because the children are young, pedagogics are easier, and therefore there is a less need for competent personnel in kindergartens. Rather, it is a huge – a screaming – need for educated kindergarten teachers in our kindergartens. If we are able to increase the proportion of educated pedagogues in kindergarten, we are also talking about early efforts. Everything we can catch in the kindergarten, makes you – as Mari Rege uses to say – get an interest rate effect on what you can do so early. I also want to mention some concrete actions that I think are important in that with early efforts, but as we would like to forget a little, because in a way it is a little side by side. That's the matter we have to deal with now that is changing the homework system. The idea was to get early work done. Then we see that it hasn't worked completely as the thought was. Schools themselves give feedback that they want the resources, so that they can focus more on those who need it. Then we can help those who need some extra help, hopefully avoiding special education, and help them over the knee they need to follow the ordinary instruction in a good way. The representative Bente Thorsen was concerned about what goes on in the health and school health services. It is very important that we facilitate that the teacher, who has competence in teaching, who has the competence to follow up both the students who are entirely ordinary in this way, and also the students who need some extra help, can be teachers. By strengthening the school health service, we provide more space and time for the teacher to focus on the teaching and follow-up of the individual student. This is not a debate that ends now. The debate will continue in the future. I think we have a lot of good going on, but I think it's important that we continue our efforts to re-train and re-train the teachers we have, but not least that we focus on getting more teachers through the teacher's school, and that we get a proper commitment to a strengthened competence in our kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e678	Let me first ask myself about representatives who thank Anders Tyvand for raising a very important question, which we should discuss more often than we do. It's a classic discussion that we find in very many other fields of society, whether it's health, crime or the prevention of transport accidents, etc. It's always an irritation, as we all probably share, that we're coming too late in the course of the ‘late effort’. It's rare that we have discussions that that's where we're going to set the search light, it's always that we want to get the earliest possible into the whole thing. This opens a huge discussion, because the whole tension of what the school represents is involved in this. How, as a society, are we going to make sure that everyone is set as early as possible, so that they don't get any problems later in life or get their potential out later in life? Then one has to get to work early. There are two changes – if one boils all of this – this is about. It is ‘time’ and ‘competence’. So it's time for teachers to see every single student, time to be a good teacher. So it's also time in the sense that one doesn't use the time to say things other than learning. Obviously, one should do something other than just be a teacher, one also needs to get some information, but politicians and bureaucrats must have confidence that teachers are doing a good job, so that they can spend as much of the time as possible on learning. Then there is competence, and there is both continuing and continuing education for teachers decisive. Because we know that up-to-date learners are far more effective, just when they get better, look better at each individual student and can provide them with better help. But competence is also about getting the right skills into school, i.e. more groups into school, as one also has. So time and competence -- that's what it boils down to. And that's just a priority question. Would you like to have more teachers in school, or would you like more teachers in school? It is obvious that several teachers in school mean that each individual student is given more opportunity to be seen by the teacher – open-ended. And once again, there's a question of priority. More teachers in school are one of the most expensive things we can do. That means that a political person really needs to want it. Then there will be less money for tax relief for the richest or lower charges for suspension engines. One just has to pick what's important here. We've been through an election campaign that has said on the right that there are no more teachers who are the big challenge in school, they're better teachers. For SV, the question is very simple: we have a high level of ambition on the school page. We want to spend the big money on growth and education, which we can see through the eight red-green years as well: the big money was spent on early work through kindergarten, school, etc. We don't want to bet on treasures for those who already have enough. Let me mention four things that I think will be decisive for early effort, whether one should fill the scope with content: the only thing is to legislate the right to continuing education. We also want to set a norm for the number of teachers in the school. We want a maximum of 15 elephants per teacher from 1 to 4. steps, and a maximum of 20 elephants per learner of 5 to 10. steps. Then we want a new, great national effort on children and young people's public health to strengthen the school health services and health centres with 1,500 new year's work. As we also know from research, nutrition and physical activity have a lot to say about how to do it later in life. We want to strengthen physical activity. We have one thing in the committee about it right now. We also want to introduce a free meal into the school in the long run. Let me use the very last seconds to say that the basis for the whole school is the student-teacher relationship. It is this relationship that needs to be strengthened, and all measures must contribute to it, not weaken it, do not ignore it by means of red tape, savings, control and competitive mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e699	I want to start by thanking Mr Tyvand for an important interpellation. There is every reason to welcome this debate, precisely because we need a research-based and factual debate on how we help more of the youngest students break the reading, writing and computing codes. We also know a lot about how important this is to succeed in the further education. It's very demanding to learn some other subject if you can't read well enough to understand everything in the curriculum book, be it in the natural sciences or in the social sciences. The representative of Tyvand brings forward Sweden and exciting actions in the Dovre municipality as examples of things he wants the Council of State to consider doing nationally. These are experiences and trials that I also believe the government should follow closely. I believe this also shows the importance of having local school owners who find out what works best in their municipality. That is why I would also warn against some of the things that have been a trend in school policy, and perhaps especially in the school debate, and that is that if a successful attempt is made, it is not certain that that effort should be turned into national policies for all municipalities. What could be the right action in the Dovre municipality does not have to be there in the municipality of Drammen. In order to take on board the issues of teacher density at an early age of school: we know a lot about the relationship between teacher density and learning outcomes from extensive research, and there is little evidence that higher teacher density automatically provides better education. If that were the case, we would already have one of the best performing schools in the world because we have one of the highest teacher's density. Let me give an example of the opposite: in Shanghai, which is a region in China that scores very well on education, all teachers have classes of 51 students. But the teachers only teach 18 hours a week. They spend the rest of their working hours following the students one by one. That's why this is all about what's going on in the classroom. How does the teacher teach? Is he able to bring all the students? What follow-up do the students get, even after the class is over? We can sit in this room and adopt a lot of ambitions and set a lot of goals. But whether it's about early action, combating bullying or other important goals, this boils down to one person: the teacher in the classroom. He's the one who's finally going to implement what we're going to adopt. This is why there is also a commitment to a more comprehensive teacher training system, a strong stepping-up of the further training of the teachers we already have in school, and an increase in the status of teachers, crucially, also in order to ensure early action. There must be a good pedagogue in the classroom, who can teach, who has control in the class, who ensures that the classroom is calm, and who is a teacher who manages to bring everyone along. Nor is it irrelevant, and we know that from research, which pedagogics are used. There is reason, I think, to ask questions about e.g. this with responsibility for own learning. In a situation where 25-30 students are to sit separately and work, it becomes difficult for a teacher to follow up all the students. But with a good teacher, in a situation where you have peace in the classroom and can teach the individual student in a classroom situation, it will also be easier to adapt the teaching. Finally, I would like to refer to SV's posts, which there are probably also several parties that want to draw out, namely that you want a standard number of students per teacher. It is an action that I would strongly warn against because it will completely outrun local self-government and the possibility of a school, for example. in Dovre, to invest extra resources early on against not having so many teachers per student later in school. It will also mean that if a municipality has a situation where many teachers are needed to adapt the teaching for a class that may be particularly demanding, the school will be required to take teachers out of that class and into a class where you don't necessarily need so many teachers. This in turn means creating a school that becomes A4, although Norway is very different and the classes are very different. That's why I think we should ring around local self-government, ring around committed local school owners and let them decide for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e720	Let me first join those who have thanked the interpellant for raising an important debate, but also for more, because I experience a new orientation from the Christian People's Party in the interpellant's emphasis on the theme and in the article. In the previous period, the Christian People's Party was reluctant to take part in the bets that were, for example. in increasing hours at the nursery, and if we go all the way back to the time we introduced six-year-olds' school, the Christian People's Party was one of the perpetrators to avoid intensive first-class reading, one of the reasons why there was then a little too weak first-class learning goal. I feel that what the new Christian People's Party representative now stands for in the Education Committee is a completely different and – I would say – a better line with regard to the importance of early action, its usefulness and our commitment to it. I think that is both courageous and positive. So it's important to say in all such debates that we have a good Norwegian school, we have a lot of skilled teachers who do a lot of work with the youngest children too, but we're not where we want to be, yet. Too many of the students do not succeed, and too many of the students do not fully exploit their potential. When about 25 pst. Of every coal still unable to complete high school, we are simply far away from the goal where we want to be. The research is sun-ready. There's a close relationship, we see, between the results already in the eighth grade of high school and the chance of completing high school. Of course, the results in 8th grade were added to primary school, but this did not happen when you went to high school. The research also shows that the efforts in kindergarten are invaluable in teaching children to read, write and calculate. What have we done? We've had several hours – we've had millions of more hours with teachers together with students. You can agree or disagree on whether there are several hours that are the solution here, but the truth is that it gives teachers a year of work that you get to do with the students. We've been re-trained as teachers. We've had a powerfully strengthened municipal economy that makes it possible to bet on the school. We have strengthened the focus on knowledge and research around early efforts. We've increased the teacher's density. We have developed and strengthened a number of centres for reading, math education, learning environment, ICT in school, etc. We've had a huge development of kindergartens. We have introduced a and strongly reinforced state grant for continuing training for teachers. There is a lot that has been done, but there is also a lot that needs to be done. Therefore, such interpellant debates are perhaps most exciting when the Council of State has to respond to the interpellant on how to meet this issue. Will the Council of State do something about all the resources spent on special education, make sure that they are used earlier in school, help people when you can help most? Will they increase the teacher's density so that more schools will have the opportunity to have a two-learning system for the small children? Do you want to develop new learning materials and help them with learning difficulties? Would you like to get more clear first-class learning goals? Would you like to develop better learning support with tests? Do you want to increase your skills with regard to how we help the weakest? Do you want to improve your childhood skills? Government posts were a great disappointment – not surprising, but disappointing. The answer is that the government is betting on continuing training for teachers. That's good, and it was unanimously adopted in Stortinget. When you spend 4 billion. oil crowns more, it would just be missing that not a little under one in ten of those heads went to a bet on knowledge and education. So on the rest of the mountain there are fewer kindergartens. The first to 4th grades are taken from school to bet on teaching aids, and the worst community practice is very poor, so that one has to wonder if the Minister of Knowledge has scolded the revised conference. When the Minister of Knowledge talks about the 2010–2014 National Läsellift being blamed on Clamet – it came in the wake of Clemet’s knowledge reform – one is in the area of parodiens. It was made five years after Clement went off. It was mentioned in the library message, which I myself presented as Minister of Culture, and had absolutely nothing to do with Kristin Clemet. We need a state council that is in 2014, not in 2003, which has concrete plans and not just words about what to do to improve the school, for example. strengthen the competence of kindergarten in teaching children to read and write, to strengthen schools, to strengthen the community economy. So far, it is good that the interpellant addresses such matters in Stortinget. Then they in Stortinget might put the course and the speed and measures behind the words.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e746	I would first of all like to thank you for a good and interesting debate and for your commitment and good input. I would also like to thank the representative Giske for his praise, but at the same time make it clear that I am not now taking the floor to increase the number of hours. The council says that he is positive to what is done in the Dovre municipality, that it is good what is done there, but does not want this as any national bet. I wish that we, as parliamentarians, wanted to see this as a national initiative for the entire Norwegian school. I think it would give a more equivalent school offer across the country. Bente Thorsen says we have high teacher density in Norway compared to many other OECD countries. That's absolutely right. But then you have to be aware of two things. One is that we have very few students going to special school. So special education is also part of this statistics when we look at the teacher's density in the Norwegian school. In addition, in Norway, we still have very many small schools that affect these statistics. But the reality is that group sizes are growing. There are more and more Norwegian students who are in large classes. I think that if we had introduced a national standard for teacher density, we would get a more equivalent school offer across the country. Today, the variations are very large. Some people are in small classes with high teacher density, others are responsible for – in my opinion – too many students. Then I began my interview with saying that there are thousands of Norwegian teachers doing a great job every day. But I think a lot of these teachers also have a constant bad conscience because they can't follow up their students well enough. They go home with a little lump in their stomach because they know there's someone they should be able to help a little bit better, someone they might have time to have the little conversation with – but they can't, they don't have the capacity to do it, because they're responsible for a lot of students. If we introduce a national standard for teacher density, the individual teacher would be responsible for fewer students. It will benefit the students, both the good students, the strongest students, and the students who are struggling, and it would also make the working day better for the teacher. It could help to strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession, make the teaching profession more attractive. Then we might get rid of the problem that the representative Iselin Nybø points to, that it won't be possible because we have too few teachers in school. Thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e763	I would also like to say a thousand thanks for a good debate, many good speeches and many suggestions as well. I think Dovre should be an example. As far as special education is concerned, I am quite clear that today's special education situation is not working. There has been such a sharp increase in the previous period. During the previous government there was a big message about the matter. It did not solve the problem, rather it shattered the principle that you did not even depend on meeting a formally qualified person when you had special education. This made it even easier for some schools and municipalities to use special education as a support crutch instead of using it as an additional aid measure. So I fully agree that kindergarten is a very important place to start when you're talking about early work. That's exactly why it should worry us that in the previous years we've spent so much time and attention on quantity only. Then we see that there are huge differences between kindergartens in Norway — there are huge differences in quality — that concern kindergarten teachers, content, play and learning for the children. Therefore, the main project of this government is the quality and content of the nursery, precisely for that reason. So I'm not going to try to lengthen the debate, but I just have to say that the claims that the teacher's density got a huge boost over the previous eight years, don't add up. There has been a maximum turn of 0.3 percentage points per year. The claim that the red-green government had a huge boost on the teacher's density was thoroughly deflected by the Education Association in the election campaign – it was thoroughly undressed. The representative Geske was also thoroughly stripped of the Federation of Education when he tried to sell more results than the reality provided. Then I want to point out one thing that has not been mentioned. It is that although early efforts are important, one should not forget the rest of the school cycle. The results we are seeing now may indicate that some of our reading and billing challenges come at an intermediate stage, that is, that the results of the youngest children – that is in line with what Bjørnø said – can look like having lifted up, but then something slips at 5–7. steps. It's also important that we're not so busy watching ourselves blind in just the first few years, although there's a lot that needs to be done there, but that we also think, how are we going to follow this up consistently throughout the entire school run? That's what the government's going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e778	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e784	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e1038	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e1048	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-23.ana.ud1526e1097	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
