ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e65	From representatives Inbjørg Godskesen, Frank J. Jenssen, Kristin Örmen Johnsen, Jenny Klinge and Ingjerd Schou, there are applications for leave from 27 January to 31 January – all to attend meetings of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg. On a proposal from the President, the following was unanimously decided: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave: for the Province of East-Agder: Lene Langemyr 29-30. January For Buskerud County: Christopher Wand 28-30. January For More and Romesdal County: Geir Inge Lien 28-30. January For Sør-Trøndelag County: Torhild Aarbergsbotten 29-30. January For Eastfold County: Tone Damsleth 29-30. January.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e120	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Lise Christoffersen and Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Lise Christoffersen and Hans Andreas Limi are unanimously elected presidents of today’s meeting. The representative of Marit Arnstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e127	On behalf of the representatives of Kjersti Toppe, Liv Signe Navarsete and myself, I propose to continue the cooperation agreement between the state and the non-profit sector on own bidding rounds for NPISHs in the field of child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e132	The representative, Anette Trettebergstuen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e135	On behalf of the representatives of Helga Pedersen, Eirin Sund, Kjell-Idar Juvik, Lise Christoffersen, Dag Terje Andersen, Magne Rommetveit, Kari Henriksen and myself, I would like to propose the introduction of new measures against social dumping and crime in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e140	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. L-3 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e180	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e191	As I said, I would like to explain two of the issues: the annual report from the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council for the second half of 2012–1. half-year 2013 and thereafter cancellation of Notifying. Article 50 on Nordic cooperation, which the Foreign and Defence Committee unanimously recommends. First to the annual report: In the first half of 2013, the work of the Nordic Council was chaired by Norway, and the delegation prioritised the following areas: Effective Nordic cooperation in the Nordic areas Nordic foreign and defence policy and social security. The delegation has worked actively to ensure that defence policy, foreign policy and social security are anchored in the work of the Council and has encouraged the Nordic governments to cooperate more closely on social security, including that Nordic rescue cooperation NORDRED should be assessed developed to include social security and preparedness in a wider sense. The delegation will also monitor specifically the removal of frontier barriers and the prevention of new ones. The annual report provides a thorough review of the 64th session of the Nordic Council in Helsinki in the autumn of 2012, the theme of which was Nordic foreign, security and defence policy, and the session on social security in Stockholm in April 2013. The Nordic cooperation on social and crisis preparedness, formalised in the so-called Haga Declaration in 2009, was further deepened in the new Haga II Declaration presented in June. The vision for cooperation presented in the new declaration is a robust Nordic region without borders. This means reducing the vulnerability of society, while increasing the ability to deal with serious accidents and crises. Parliamentary cooperation in the Barents region and the Baltic Sea and cooperation with the West of the North are discussed. It also does the work that the delegation to the Nordic Council has continued with the cooperation between the Nordic countries and parliamentary bodies in the north. Good cooperation has developed with members of the State Duma and the Federation Council of the Russian Parliament and parliamentarians from eleven regions of North-West Russia. Sweden has now taken over the Presidency of the Nordic Council for 2014. Work has been given the title of the Nordic region in Europe – Europe in the Nordic region, and it has given particular attention to three main areas: The Nordic labour market Sustainable harvest of natural resources 200 years of peace between the Nordic countries. It is appropriate that we debate Nordic cooperation this week. This week, the 200th anniversary of the Kiel Treaty has been marked. It provided the basis for lasting peaceful relations between the Nordic countries, on which cooperation in the Nordic Council is based. The President of the Grand Duchy reminded us this week, during the Kiel campaign, that the Napoleonic wars and the peace in Kiel show that the Nordic countries are both co-players in and dependent on the events in the world around us. We're closer together today than ever. Old enemies have become good friends. Cooperation is our key to solving crises and getting through dark times. The Nordic Council is such cooperation. It is strong, and further development is taking place at a high rate, especially in the field of foreign and defence policy. In 2013, the Norwegian Presidency had the joy of hosting the Nordic Council session here in Stortinget. We got fresh debates both here and in and separately in the media. In the debates in the Chamber, the focus was on cross-border barriers – especially those related to young people’s opportunities for education and work in the Nordic region – and on strong Nordic health cooperation. The Nordic welfare model has also received a lot of international attention in recent years. The art of combining economic growth and dynamism with a generous and tax-funded well-being has shown its strength in the economic crisis, but we must not take it for granted. The Nordic model is sustainable because it can change and change. In order to keep the Nordic model, we have to be willing to adapt it. We must be willing to invest in knowledge, research, education, infrastructure and a competitive tax system. The three-year programme Sustainable Nordic Welfare was launched by the Nordic Council in 2013 and will last until 2015. It shall implement the Nordic Prime Ministers’ call for the Nordic Health Ministers to draw up concrete proposals to further develop Nordic health cooperation. Health ministers have been asked to look at Nordic cooperation in the testing of new medicinal products and treatments, cooperation on highly specialised functions and research on health and welfare. Young people's opportunity for work is a theme that we'll probably also come back to. It has to be an ambition to make it even easier to get a job or study in the other Nordic countries, especially given the situation of many young people who are unemployed or have no relevant job in relation to the training they have taken. A closer Nordic parliamentary cooperation on current EU and EEA issues is also under development, and I am pleased that the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen, has discussed this with the head of the European Union in the Swedish Parliament. We are happy to link more closely to our Nordic EU neighbours. Bridge construction is an important part of being an international parliamentary organisation. Regional actors such as the Nordic Council of Ministers play a useful role in promoting global issues and the interaction between global dimensions and local conditions. In conclusion, I hope that in 2014 we will be able to continue this bridge construction which started in 1814 and is today symbolized by the Nordic Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e251	Of course, the two positions we are discussing today on Nordic cooperation are strongly influenced by the fact that Norway held the Presidency of the Council of Ministers in 2012 and that we were in the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council in 2013. We could say that it was challenging, it was demanding and it was laborious. But these two years were at the same time very successful for Nordic cooperation – I dare say that. The Committee’s position underlines that Nordic cooperation is stronger and covers more areas than ever before. I would also like to join in all that the rapporteur said, she had an excellent contribution on Nordic cooperation. In fact, Nordic cooperation has also become more dynamic and more focused, as the Norwegian Presidency of the Council has helped to strengthen, among others. by stressing our efforts to ensure a robust Nordic welfare model with the financial crisis and youth unemployment in Europe as a backbone, by putting defence policy on the Nordic agenda seriously on the parliamentary side, and we were active in the North and North-West Russia. With regard to the issue of an effective welfare state or a robust welfare state, the Council of Ministers in 2012 refers to the Velferdsstatt programme in a Nordic perspective and says that the economic crisis in Europe also characterises the Nordic region, and that the Nordic countries must jointly meet the challenges. This has also joined the council and worked from within. We could say that the Nordic countries are not exactly the same, but in general, the Nordic model of society is characterised by at least four components in most of the Nordic countries: It is primarily an economic model of mixed economy, based on market forces, but where the private sector is regulated by the public, where we create and share, and where there are large welfare states. These are important values that the Nordics want to take care of. Secondly, welfare models are universal and they cover everyone. Welfare is financed mainly through the tax bill. In several Nordic countries, social security exports are being challenged in a Europe where borders have become smaller within Schengen, and not least in global society. Thirdly, the Nordic countries have a labour market model in which the state has played an important role with the social partners. So we've also had stability and growth in the North. Last but not least what perhaps the Nordic countries are really known for internationally: the high level of female employment in all Nordic countries creates values and contributes strongly to growth, development and prosperity. So this is the welfare model that the Nordic Council of Ministers wants to ensure that we are robust in the world in which we live. This includes Nordic cooperation, as the rapporteur said, increasingly European policy, especially where the Nordic countries have common interests. European integration policy has become a common framework for policy and regulatory development in the Nordic countries. This applies in particular in areas falling within the EEA Agreement, in particular with regard to border-blocking issues. At the same time, Europe looks towards the North, they look at our social model, they look at our values. Yes, not only in Europe: the Nordic Council of Ministers held in February 2013 the exhibition Nordic Cool – yes, it was hot – in Washington. It became a huge success. It showed Nordic culture in breadth and the best we have, but it also showed Nordic life and social life and aroused great interest and had very many visitors. As President-in-Office of the Council, I set the challenges for the welfare state as a priority. In particular, youth unemployment was highlighted in my meeting with the Nordic Prime Ministers on 16 May last year. On the same day, I and others from the Council attended a wide-ranging labour market seminar where ‘multiple young people in work — a challenge for the Nordic welfare model’ was the topic, and where Nordic prime ministers as well as Nordic labour market ministers participated in panel discussions. It may be good to acknowledge from this pulpit that we appreciate that the Nordic Prime Ministers have Nordic seminars and also have Nordic parliamentary meetings. Young people and the unemployed are wasted with resources, but they also have the unfortunate side of young people almost leaving society and not participating in democratic processes. I would therefore also like to mention the session held in Helsinki in October 2012, which had a seminar on youth unemployment in the Nordic region. In this respect, I would like to congratulate the representative Anna Ljunggren, who was an active driver of that seminar. In 2013, the Nordic Council put Nordic defence policy cooperation, foreign policy and social security on the political agenda. I think we can be proud that we actually achieved a great deal in terms of parliamentary anchoring for the already growing cooperation on defence and security policy in the Nordic region. On 30 September 2013, the Nordic Council Bureau held a round table conference with the Finnish Minister of Defence and the Finnish Defence Chief in addition to the then Norwegian Minister of Defence. Finland had the presidency of NORDEFCO in 2013, and the successor of the Norwegian Minister of Defence was the current head of NORDEFCO, i.e. in 2014. We expect a new round table conference this year, and I would also like to show that I have an interpellation on this topic on 30 January. Foreign policy was livelyly discussed at the Nordic Council's session in Oslo. We will follow up on this by inviting foreign ministers to a round table conference during the year. In matters where there is no Council of Ministers, we now want to use round table conferences as a flexible and flexible instrument to bring forward the Nordic parliamentary views in important matters, and we also note that this creates flexibility and flexibility in cooperation that I think is important to look at, not least when we see the bureaucracy that has emerged in the Council of Ministers. In March 2013, the delegation organised a seminar on social security and made input to the Haga Ministers, who are responsible for Nordic cooperation on preparedness and social security. These were met in June in Stockholm. The strategic development plan for the period 2013-2015 places great emphasis on creating procedures for regular briefing with the Nordic parliaments and the Nordic Councils. The next meeting of the Haga Ministers is for spring in Oslo. A round table could have been held between the Haga Ministers and the Nordic Council on Social Security. Border barriers may have been the main issue in the Nordic Council every year. That's where we get the enquiries from the little man and woman, from states in the border areas, and that's where the challenges are still lying and there's a lot of work to do. A new Border Obstacle Council has now also been set up where Svein Ludvigsen represents Norway and where I am an alternate from the Council. Finally, the Nordic Council is perhaps the most well-known, its cultural prizes. In 2012, the Nordic Council of Ministers asked the Nordic Council to set up a new prize for children’s and youth literature. In the autumn of 2012, the Nordic Council decided to set up such a prize, which has become the fifth in the series of Nordic Council prizes – an important contribution to the literature price. Let me add that it is an important emphasis that we want to strengthen the Nordic languages that are threatened in many ways. The community of languages is also a cultural community that is in the process of crumbling in many ways. It is not helpful that the Nordic television channels also duplicate each other’s children’s and young people’s programmes. We hope that the new prize for children's and youth literature will play a role as it is distributed. I would also like to show that we had a very successful price distribution gap that was sent directly on Nordic television thanks to Norwegian national broadcasting, NRK. I expect that we will return to next year when we deal with the Nordic Council, because that happened in the autumn of 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e291	After all, it was my virginity as rapporteur-in-chief, this annual report by the Parliamentary Delegation for Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation. Then it was really quite easy to get a thing that was so broad a consensus about. There is no big deal in the paper version – there is half a page with comments and half a page with summaries. This does not mean that it is an unimportant matter – rather on the contrary. This is a very important matter, and that is part of the work that is going on in the northern regions. It also says a lot when two consecutive governments have underlined the importance of the northern regions. The Committee stresses that the northern regions are Norway's main strategic foreign policy area. And the current government says it's pretty similar. It states that the northern regions are Norway’s most important area of foreign policy interest. I agree with both, I can sign both. It has to do with the fact that it's important strategic, it's important security policy, it's important economic, it's important resource-related, and it's also important especially considering that it's up north we hit our very largest neighbor, Russia. Then I also have faith in what is in the story of Nail. It says something wise. It says that what concerns those who are close to us also concerns ourselves. I think it's important. And I think it's important when it comes to what's going on in the north, not just thinking about the tough things – what's about energy and security – but also thinking about what's going on about the environment and health challenges. In fact, it is at the border between Norway and Russia that the main health policy distinction is found between two countries in the world. That's why it matters what kind of cooperation we can create. I'm also going to talk a little bit about Nordic cooperation, but I'm going to mix a little bit -- not mix the cards, but mix up my post on these issues. I also think we should take on board this with the fact that we have gradually begun to get an inflation in cooperative bodies – selections, committees, places to meet – and that sometimes it may be a little difficult to get an overview of all of these places we are going to discuss. Sometimes the overlapping issues we discuss are. There's not necessarily anything negative – rather the opposite. It's a good thing to be able to meet at different venues. What's important is that we do the relevant thing. It is also one of these things that has previously been the skepticism of the Advance Party towards the Nordic Council. I think you will surely find quotes from my party colleagues who have said that the Nordic Council is a soup council. I do not agree that the Nordic Council is a soup council. But I think you should take the warnings from, for example, Member of the people Karen Ellemann in earnest, when she warns that the Nordic Council can end up like a coffee club, or a talk club. That, I believe, is an important debate to take. I think we have to look at the speed of the processes, we have to look at the relevance of the issues being discussed, and we can't settle down with the breakthrough we got for cases 50, 40, 30, 20 years back in time. We need to be able to demonstrate that the cooperation we have today is relevant – not just to politicians, but to people in everyday life. It has been said in the past — and I agree with that — that the work being done on border barriers is perhaps one of the most important work going on between the Nordic countries. Here I believe that former representative Dagfinn Høybråten put quite good words on it, when he pointed out in the debate that was the last time about this, that it had to do with removing plunder and debriefing in connection with border crossings. The Nordic Council should take that task seriously and grasp that kind of thing, because we are so closely linked in the Nordic region, we have so much in common, we know each other well. That is why there is more and more of what we have seen – that we have a common labour market, partly a lot of common culture, and that there is still a lot of flow across borders. Then it's important that we get rid of bureaucracy, that we get to grips with this that has to do with looting and embezzlement in people's everyday lives, and that we can show the relevance of Nordic cooperation to people out there. Then I'll talk a little bit about Arctic cooperation. It is the eight Arctic states that constitute the constellation of Arctic parliamentary cooperation. The work done there also supports the work being done at government level in the Arctic Council. In addition, we also have other types of cooperation, but this is one of the places where we meet Russia. I attended the meeting for the Northern Dimension a little while ago. There you discuss quite everyday things. You discuss specific issues, you discuss health, the environment and that kind of thing. I think it's very important that we have a critical look at much of what's happening with our big neighbor. I think the Russians can bear that too – that we disagree on some of the political developments that have taken place. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of having a clean and good relationship with Russia. We have a lot in common. The Russians and the Norwegians go well together. We have a great people-to-people cooperation and we're moving across the border up north. Nor is it the case that there is only conflict and disagreement with regard to major issues between Norway and Russia. We also have a common interest in good administration up north. That is why I think it is incredibly important to have the kind of arenas that arctic parliamentary cooperation is, as the Arctic Council is, as the Northern Dimension is, and not least the relationship between Russia and the Nordic Council, which may evolve even more in the future. I have faith in dialogue, I have faith that one dares to be honest with one another, and I have faith that one can find common interests and get an eye on them, even though the starting point does not look like that. That is why this was a two-sided attitude, but it says nothing about the importance of the matter. I think I will end with this – thank you for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e314	Nordic cooperation is on the right track. The work done within the framework of the Nordic Council is important, and I feel a growing interest in Nordic issues. I am pleased that the cooperation between the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers also seems to be on a good track. The Nordic governments are clearly present at the Council sessions, more now than before, and there is an increasing awareness of the importance of further developing the Nordic community. That's good. It has, also in the media, been called for by the Nordic Council to be renewed. Yes, any organisation that does not seek improvement and modernisation will, of course, slow down. This will also apply to the Nordic Council. There are now important processes in progress in the Council of Ministers. I believe it is important that we now support the renewal that is taking place at government level, in the Nordic Council of Ministers. The initiatives of the Cooperation Ministers for a review are important. We also need to look at the possibilities for modernisation, efficiency and renewal in the Nordic Council. Can we in a simpler and more effective way initiate, discuss, decide and implement actions? Can we further strengthen our political work? How do we ensure that the path from politics to results is as short as possible? These are questions we have to ask ourselves. But at the same time, it is very important that we do not throw the child out with the bath water. It is important to maintain formalised cooperation structures and not least our institutions. In the Nordic institutions, we find everything from research to culture and to managing common genetic resources in the Nordic region – to mention something. These are important arrangements. We can look at how we modernise these, but it is important that institutions and cooperation structures are also given priority in budgetary terms. Take, for example: cultural cooperation. The Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers play an important role here. The Nordic Council's cultural prizes make cultural cooperation visible to a broad audience. It is also important to strengthen and further develop cooperation in the field of media policy. The Nordic Cultural Fund supports Nordic cooperation in a good way. Cultural cooperation between the Nordic countries should be strengthened. I ask the Council of State to note this, and I ask the Council of State to take this with them into the Council of Ministers: cultural cooperation between the Nordic countries should be strengthened, not weakened. Cooperation measures in the field of culture should be strengthened, not weakened. Aid schemes are important and need to be further developed – strengthened, not weakened. This also applies when scarce budgetary resources are to be prioritised. The core of Nordic cooperation is political. The dynamics are created in the political changes in the way in which clear votes are applied. Especially in the Nordic Council, with its elected political representatives, political commitment is important. Therefore, it must be that we are building down borders and removing unnecessary barriers between the Nordic countries. Europe is experiencing uncertainty and unrest. Now Nordic cooperation is more important than ever. The renewal that is under way promises good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e333	For the Central Party, Nordic cooperation is important. There's a lot in common in the Nordic countries: we have a common popular culture. And the innovations with the children’s and youth literature prize are mentioned here – very important. It mentions an extension of cooperation in the field of television between state channels in the Nordic region. It's incredibly important to focus on the common culture, because it gives a common anchoring of the whole work. There is also a lot in common in the Nordic region about the political organisation of the labour market. The labour market is very crucial for everyday culture, and it is also crucial to focus on it – which I will get into later. It is also important in Nordic cooperation to focus on geopolitical, geopolitical and self-interest. That's why the North Region focus is incredibly central, and it's going to be much more important in the future, as we now see the impacts of climate change. It makes the West-Nordic become more central. The situation for Greenland, Iceland and a number of areas is changing, and we need to acquire new knowledge and understanding of what's happening and what we want. As others have been involved, the interaction with Russia is central, and I would like to underline what the spokesman of the Progress Party said we must have a good, solid and knowledgeable relationship with Russia. At the same time, the work of the Nordic Council must be vitalised. Dagfinn Højbråten has gone into the work on this clearly in focus, and it is crucial. Similarly, Karen Ellemann has said that – she represents an impatient voice, not a voice that wants to weaken the Nordic Council, as I understand it, but a voice that wants to make the Nordic Council more vital. What is central to Karen Ellemann's contributions is where Nordic cooperation goes. The Nordic, which is largely based on social and political conditions, is characterized by common historical conditions, peace and popular rule. Most people in the Nordic region feel a community, and we have the Nordic model, with adaptations to their country's peculiarity, which stands very strongly with many. It says, from a public point of view, extraordinarily strong. It's also international, so many people look to the Nordic countries, not to copy us, but to look at how we've organized central parts of our society, how the political debate works. There are many people who find inspiration in us, and we should be aware of that. The core point of the Nordic model is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, the enviable social and economic conditions. The central points here can be further developed in such a way that we still have to be somewhat different from the longer-south European conditions, or that we should be more similar in terms of social, economic conditions further south. This work is one of the most important to discuss now in the Nordic Council, but it is very demanding. It is very demanding because several Nordic countries, all of whom are aware, have joined the European Union and others have joined the EEA Agreement, which means that one has joined the four freedoms of market forces. Once you have joined the four freedoms of market forces, it will have natural consequences over time. Professor Kristen Nygaard already pointed out in 1992 what was going to happen. The professor probably didn't see enough that it had to go so many years before the consequences became so obvious, but now we're in the middle of it. This is very demanding. This is a big, big challenge for the Nordic model. Nordic cooperation has become stronger in several areas, including security policy, and it is very good. The major challenge is – to put it concretely – working life. Working life is central to the organisation of society as a whole. It's work life and people's connection to work that determines what's one's place and role also in the rest of one's life. For this reason, the Nordic model related to agility is one of the most important issues to be discussed, but it is, as I said, very demanding when one is in a situation where the European Union is closely linked to the main problem of further developing the situation of agility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e352	Nordic cooperation is unique in an international context. Over 60 years, many everyday problems have been solved for people in the Nordic region. It's made it much easier to interact, to travel and work in the different countries. This has been done in spite of different security policy links in NATO and different links with the EU. What is unique in the international context is that there has been ever better and closer cooperation between the Nordic countries. I think that this cooperation in the years to come is going to be even more important. Looking at the Nordic region in an international context, it is often pointed out, also from this room, that Norway is a small country. That's right. The same can be done in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. But I think it is important that the Nordic countries have the awareness that the Nordic countries together, if you look at political strength, economics, research, education and culture, can compete anywhere in the world. It's important that we build on and have just a consciousness of the common interests that the Nordics have, and that we build on the cooperation we need to strengthen ourselves internationally. It should be an objective in most areas to play a leading role both as an individual country and as a region. In the next steps of Nordic cooperation, as has been mentioned here before, it is quite clear that we need to build on the defence cooperation that we have. This must be done with respect for the different security policy links between the different countries. I also believe that this is about strengthening the region as a common housing and labour market and as a common area by also looking at strengthening transport projects in the Nordic region. Clearly, the Nordic capitals, and in particular the Scandinavian capitals, need a better connection between the different cities. This applies particularly to railways, but also to roads. With regard to freight transport and its development in Scandinavia/North, there is still a large potential that is untapped, which requires stronger cooperation than we have had so far. In terms of land-use planning, planning has stopped at individual borders, and there is a great potential here. With regard to the northern dimension and Arctic parliamentary cooperation, it is clear that, with the increasing importance that the northern regions are increasingly given economic and security policy, it is becoming a more important area. Unfortunately, with the major changes we are facing through climate change, we need stronger cooperation between the eight countries. Parliamentary cooperation can have an important and significant impact because there is a need for more contact points between countries. Parliamentarians can play an important role precisely in building up the contact points and addressing those aspects of cooperation that are not necessarily about the main issues, but on how to solve practical problems and make it easier for people in these eight countries to have contact with each other. This is how you will be able to build up under a more popular interface than just the major policy issues can do. So Nordic cooperation is as important today as it was before. In essential areas, it needs to be strengthened. Arctic parliamentary cooperation can play an important complementary role both in focusing on and solving problems in the northern regions, and also in building up under stronger cooperation over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e365	Nordic cooperation is important – it also means SV. I believe that the Nordic Council has been a success in many ways. If it's unique, I don't know – fortunately, there are many examples of good cooperation between neighbours. But it's a particularly close cooperation, which is helped by the fact that in many ways we are a common area of culture and language. In areas such as culture, environment and consumer policy – the representative Nybakk was within several of these – and in the last few years in the field of defence and security, perhaps the most innovative thing that has happened in recent years, it is exciting to see that the Nordic Council itself has been an important cooperation. My impression is that it can often be a little difficult to measure how strongly actual Nordic political cooperation is in many areas if you only look at the Nordic Council. It is easy to underestimate the value of Nordic cooperation if one only measures it on the Nordic Council, because I have learned for myself that there is strong political cooperation that is reflected in a number of other contexts. Let me give you an example of what I experienced as the Minister for the Environment: we do not have any formal Nordic climate cooperation, but the Nordic Environment and Climate Ministers had close contact and close cooperation in the processes around the international climate negotiations also in the field of the environment. For example, at the Doha climate summit, we met regularly. We coordinate our policies, we sit down and discuss what role different countries can play, and in what processes we can be in – and have contacted each other. In spite of the political differences between the Nordic countries, the differences are relatively small, so small that we are mainly responsible for the same thing in the international climate negotiation regime, and my tip will be that the same happens in a number of other areas. This is not a measurable cooperation, but there is no doubt that it was useful in our work to get to different things in connection with an agreement. What I myself thought was exciting was if one in the years to come from the government of these messages could also focus on the potential to move forward in different areas of Nordic cooperation. Both the representative Elvesuen and the representative Lundtigen mentioned two of the themes I found most interesting, namely infrastructure, labour and welfare systems and how it can be exploited. How the Nordics can have a common voice in different areas of international policy, I think, is exciting. There is currently governance cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries in the World Bank, the IMF, etc. If one combines the Nordic economies, we are the eleventh or twelfth largest economy in the world – a significant and powerful player. Could one imagine that one in other international contexts, where there may often be a common point of view, behaved more closely to gain greater weight? I also join most of the things that have been said about the Arctic area, I just want to make a little comment about it. It is an important Norwegian area of interest. It's a little scary if we think first of all about what's now going to roll up in the Arctic for the next decades, as a question of Norwegian interest. First of all, there is a great shift in every global policy. North-north can be a major future conflict theme in line with East-West and North-South international policies. We must remember that several of the world's heaviest powers have heavy interests that will increase, unfortunately, because among other things. global climate problems make the Arctic more accessible. And then it's extremely important, as I see it, that environmental and climate issues are not inserted as a slightly soft theme alongside, but into the core of all cooperation on the Arctic. Many of the worst scenarios can still be avoided in the Arctic, and the basis for many of the other issues is resource issues. Finally, I thought that I should take a thought that the government can take with me, to the extent that they hear advice from SV, and it is: It has struck me, even from when I sat down and delivered the messages from me, that it is a perfectly good system that we deliver annual messages about the various cooperation bodies we are involved in. Another possibility could be that we treat such messages in the Stortinget somewhat less often – when we look at the comments, at least there is no urgent need for a broad political debate on this – but perhaps with a slightly greater sense of which way to proceed from the government. At least there might be something to take with you and discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e380	The president gets to apologize for his voice, but there's a little flu out and going. Nordic cooperation and the Nordic Council of Ministers are a high priority of the government, and I want to play an active role. Dialogue with the Nordic Council is very important in this context. I agree with the Committee which, in its position, writes: ‘It is essential that the agenda be set by politicians and that cooperation in the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers is actively used to promote quality of life and to simplify people’s everyday lives in the Nordic region.’ It has several of the speakers before me also pointed out in their posts. It was interesting and instructive for me as a new co-operation minister to attend the Nordic Council's session here in Oslo before Christmas. It also struck me at what kind of breadth is in Nordic cooperation. The Norwegian Presidency in 2012 put challenges for the welfare state in the Nordic region seriously on the agenda of the Council of Ministers. The Swedish Presidency followed up in 2013 and had youth unemployment as a main theme. Sweden also introduced mineral resources and mining activities to the Council of Ministers. Iceland, which has its presidency this year, also focuses on the welfare state and its challenges in the wake of the economic crisis. In 2013, several changes were made to the activities of the Council of Ministers. Perhaps the most important one was a budget cut for the current year of 5 p.m., and during the Swedish Presidency last year it was agreed on the distribution of the cut: 3.5 p.m. at the Councils of Ministers of Trade and Cooperation and the rest of the budget of the Ministers of Cooperation. We have seen that the various sectors have taken responsibility and have prioritised their priorities within a given framework. The priority budget was introduced from 2013. The aim is that this mechanism should provide greater flexibility and allow for more policy-driven projects within the Council of Ministers. The priority budget was adopted under the Norwegian Presidency in 2012 and the Swedish Presidency was the first to implement this new tool. With the priority budget, the Presidency receives a greater share of funding for self-initiated projects. This can create greater commitment to Nordic cooperation. My Nordic colleagues and I are concerned that matters dealt with in the Council of Ministers should be relevant and timely, but it is also important to be effective. That is why, as the new Secretary-General, Dagfinn Højbräten has been given a modernisation mission by the cooperation ministers. He is now in the process of going through the business with a view to improving and streamlining government cooperation. He looks at decision-making processes, contacts with the Nordic institutions, project activities and the budgetary process. The reporting of this work shall take place at the meeting of the Cooperation Ministers in June. I look forward to that. Border barriers have been mentioned earlier here, and it is one of the core areas of Nordic cooperation. The solution to frontier barriers is important not only to ensure the rights of Nordic citizens but also to provide good framework conditions for business. Norway actively supports and prioritises the work on border barriers. A separate action plan was presented during the session in Oslo this autumn. The organisation of frontier work has now changed in order to meet the new requirements we are faced with. The Border Obstacle Forum, established in 2007, did a good job in combating obstacles and increasing freedom of movement in the Nordic region, and Bjarne Dørk Eidem, who has been the Norwegian representative, has done a good job both in catching up and trying to find solutions on different border barriers, and not least in putting barriers on the political agenda. But this year, the Border Barrier Forum and its function are replaced by a Border Barrier Council. The Border Obstacle Council is known to be led by the Presidency country and has one member from each country. Cooperation with the Nordic Council will be stepped up and contacts with the representatives of the Council and the national authorities will be strengthened. Cooperation ministers are also given an expanded role and contacts with the sectors are developing. The Norwegian representative in the Border Obstacle Council is Svein Ludvigsen. The Border Obstacle Council will have its first kick-off seminar in Copenhagen in February. International activities continue to be important in Nordic cooperation, and last year the guidelines for cooperation with both North-West Russia and the Baltic States were renewed. With the new guidelines, the governments of the Nordic countries underline the need to further develop Nordic cooperation with North-West Russia. Finally, let me stress that it is important to make the ideas and ideas of the Nordic cooperation ministers about the further development of Nordic cooperation visible. There has been a process related to a so-called vision paper, and it is after that I have reason to believe, that we may now, in February, after the next meeting of the Cooperation Ministers, be able to sum up the process that has been, into a so-called vision paper, or a vision statement, which will be clear on how to prioritise, and how to continue working with Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e419	First, I would like to thank both the current Minister of Cooperation, Aspaker, and the former Minister of Cooperation, in the previous government, for the very good cooperation between the Nordic Council delegation in the United Kingdom and the Minister of Cooperation. We depend on having both dialogue and cooperation to get implemented and get an impact on our affairs in the Council of Ministers. The Councils of State referred to specific frontier barriers. These are the things that concern the little man and woman, but it is also borderline issues that are of interest to business, because, as is said and heard, frontier barriers are also hindering business cooperation. My question is, also in the context of the new Council: how will the Council of States ensure that border barriers are implemented and followed up in the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e426	It is incredibly important when we now get this new Border Barrier Council, that we also manage to get good processes associated with following up the issues that are raised there. I have had a preparatory meeting with the Norwegian representative, Svein Ludvigsen, and we have agreed on how to communicate well in the future. Then, in meeting with the Secretary-General, Dagfinn Højbrätten, I have talked about how this topic must also be subject to ongoing briefing on what kind of matters are addressed in the Council, so that we can also be politically prepared and, if possible, can work a little in parallel to ensure that we get faster and more efficient decision-making processes in this area. Because, as the representative says, there are obstacles that are damaging to business in everyday life, but also to the individuals affected by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e431	I also want to thank you for the cooperation. It is always nice when the council comes to delegation meetings at Stortinget. I also think it is positive what the Council of State says about renewal and support for the work on efficiency and renewal that is taking place in the Council of Ministers, which is run by Dagfinn Høybräten. My question is in the same street as the previous replicator's question, but a little bit more generally: How does the Council of State see that we can slow down the time – I think it is the most important thing – from political initiative to seeing concrete results? If that time is too long, we will in a way lose patience and initiative for further work. At least that's how I experience it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e440	I think we're all impatient, and I think that if Nordic cooperation is to be relevant, it's very important that we manage to streamline decision-making processes. I have, as I said, also discussed this topic with the new Secretary-General, and I think we have to look at the kind of things -- some things are of such a nature that they need a little bit of time; other things are of such a nature that they shouldn't need so much time. Then it's also about how we manage to tour issues that come in the Nordic Council context, in the respective countries, so that we can slow down time and speed up the process of reaching decisions. I take this recommendation, which I believe is very important, with me into cooperation ministerial meetings, and then we also need to look at how we can help cut the turns and get good decisions quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e447	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e450	In the last eight years, the Nordic regions have been the main strategic area of foreign policy by the government. We've been working systematically to clarify issues about how to manage the northern regions, and by whom, increase knowledge of the northern regions and clarify border issues, and we've done a lot of good. There is broad international support for the fact that the management of the Arctic seas is based on the law of the sea. The Arctic Council, through two binding agreements and the admission of several countries as permanent observers, has grown to become a heavy player in the design of multinational solutions to the challenges we face in the North. We have set up a secretariat for Arctic Council in Tromsø. It consolidates Norway as an important actor in the Circumpolar Work. There has been an incredible amount of research on climate and the consequences of the climate crisis. It all culminated in the 2007-2009 International Polar Year, which was a gigantic international coordinated research effort. We're still learning new things as a result of that effort. The knowledge and networks of the Polar Year are important in the further development of the North. Norway has been clarified its main frontier issue with the agreement with Russia on the Barents Sea divider line, and we have been told the extent of our continental shelf. These are the results of political priorities and hard work, and it would be right to say that there has been no political controversy in the political change in Norway, although I am uncertain whether everyone has had the wide-ranging consequences and the opportunities that result from it. We have now created a solid foundation to build the further investment in the northern regions. I hope the current government will follow up the work that has been done. Although some words other than those used in the government statement of the Stoltenberg II government are used, it is positive that the northern regions have been given their own chapter in the government’s political platform. I have also followed with great interest the speeches and speeches that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made on the subject. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the President-in-Office for his emphasis on the importance of the northern regions for the country. However, I would like to point out that the North Sea bet must have an international perspective. From a hostile and distant location, the northern regions have now suddenly become a geopolitically important region. For the Workers' Party, the Nordic regions remain Norway's main strategic focus in foreign policy. In these areas, we have fundamental national interests and security policy challenges. Here, we are also facing some of the most obvious impacts of climate change. The northern regions have large petroleum resources, some of the world's richest fishing resources and unused mineral resources. When the meltdown of the ice opens up to new and shorter international leaders, new challenges and opportunities await in the area. The North Sea bet is a national bet to benefit the whole country. It shall contribute to the growth of the northern part of the country, in conjunction with an active industrial policy and an offensive rural policy. A policy to maintain the main features of the housing pattern is therefore important for strategic reasons and for the exploitation and development of the natural resources found in the area. However, we must not reduce the North Region effort to a domestic, district policy effort in North Norway. From time to time ghosts from the cold war appear in the public vocabulary, often with brief media lookups as the starting point. Perhaps the last was from NTB, who announced that Russia's president should have ordered a new military upgrade in the north, thus helping to increase the tension in the area. What characterises the situation in the northern regions is, above all, great stability and willingness for cooperation between actors. All the Arctic countries will assert their rights and sovereignty. Everyone will take advantage of the amazing possibilities that exist in the north. Therefore, all countries also build both civil and military capacity in the region. This has also been done by Norway, through heavy investments, among others. in new frigates and coastguard ships and necessary changes in the Defence. For us, it is a solid foundation of security policy that must be followed up by credible resources to assert the sovereignty we have. However, activity in the north will take place in cooperation and in common understanding with the nations based on international law, and not in harsh confrontations. It will also form the framework for how we solve the remaining questions. Although it is difficult to imagine military conflicts in the region in the near future, not all challenges are solved. Norway must therefore continue its systematic high-level work on north-eastern diplomacy. I hope that this government will also follow the objectives of exploiting the potential of even better cooperation between the government and the various parliamentary delegations we have in Stortinget, in order to systematically put the northern regions on the agenda and gain support for Norwegian positions. The formation of Arctic Council and the Ottawa Declaration dissuade Arctic advice from addressing military and security policy issues. Nevertheless, it is that, as I was in, both military and civil capacity is built in the northern regions, and it may be a question of whether we should not in some way also find arenas to address these challenges in the northern regions, without having to shoot how it is going to happen today. Cooperation in the Arctic Council is developing very positively. Cooperation is increasingly taking place in new areas, is becoming more committed and is deepening. Countries have concluded binding legal agreements on search and rescue in the Arctic. In Kiruna last year, the agreement on cooperation in the clean-up of oil spills was signed. New agreements are being negotiated and stronger cooperation with the Arctic industry is taking shape. Arctic cooperation is now entering a new phase. Then the focus must be on the potential for value creation in the region and the consequences it will have for the people who live there. This does not mean that we are not going to continue to work on climate and environmental issues, or that we are not going to have a relationship with security policy challenges, but it is about having it as a foundation for what we have achieved so far, and building on the opportunities it gives us. The choices we have to make in the future must also be based on solid knowledge. There must then be a systematic focus on developing knowledge of the environment, resources and industrial development in the north. A substantial part of this research and knowledge development must take place at universities and universities in the north, on the basis of the strengths of the different environments. Norway shall continue to be the leader in knowledge of, for and in the north. The development of skills and capacity on standby can be an example of such a field of activity. Exchange of students and researchers is an important tool for connecting contacts and sharing knowledge. There we have good experience from Nordic cooperation. We should work on developing it in an arctic and Circumpolar context as well. The creation of new jobs in the north by exploiting the natural advantages of fishing activities, petroleum, wind power, mining and tourism will be central. We cannot build our north-eastern policy on some kind of colonization, where we extract resources and let people in the north live with the consequences, without leaving significant ring-effects in the region. Cooperation with local and regional authorities, such as the county councils and the community, in the formulation of policies will then be crucial. Norway is an Arctic state with broad competence about the conditions under which we live, both in businesses and in environments throughout the country. We're going to build on this competence and use it as we move on with the Northern Region bet. On 22 October 2009, the Stortinget decided to establish a delegation to the Arctic Parliamentary Cooperation. In the setting for creating an arctic delegation, indent. 26 S for 2009–2010, it appears that the background to the establishment was the increased activity in the Arctic and the increased political importance of the area nationally and internationally. One of the objectives identified was that a permanent delegation would create greater continuity in work and increase the possibility of putting greater Norwegian influence on the agenda to influence the development of Arctic cooperation. It is our opinion that the establishment of the delegation has undoubtedly strengthened Storting's participation in international parliamentary cooperation and led to greater continuity in Arctic cooperation. The fact that the Head of the Delegation, the representative of Höglund, also chaired the International Committee of Arctic Parliamentarians, made an important contribution to making the preparations – set the agenda – for what should be on the agenda. Parliamentary cooperation includes all the eight Arctic states, but also the European Parliament, and with the firm participation of the indigenous peoples of the region. In the delegation we take note of the Committee's comments that the level of activity has been high and that the delegation has contributed to raising issues, and not least the Committee's emphasis on strengthening parliamentary cooperation in the Arctic. On behalf of the members of the new delegation in this period, I want to assure the Storting that we are ready to tackle the problems and look forward to solving the mission that Stortinget has given us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e499	All Nordic countries are either EU members or have an EEA connection. Unlike the representative Lundtägen of the Central Party, I think that is very good, because this relationship leads to the parallel introduction of legal rules and standards in most policy areas. Over time, this leads to the reduction of barriers to trade, cross-border business and the free movement of the Nordic population. The Nordic Council continues to play a significant role if the work of the Council is further concentrated. But perhaps the threshold for making proposals to the Council of Ministers should be slightly higher, in the sense that it might then be avoided to end up as a defence of resolution where the Council of Ministers can choose to ignore the recommendations. The basis for doing something about a common Nordic issue must be that there is added value for countries to cooperate, in other words, triggering a greater Nordic utility. There has been a revitalisation of cooperation by increasing the involvement of security, defence and foreign affairs in Nordic cooperation. Despite the lack of cooperation between the Council of Ministers in these areas, the Nordic Council continues to lead these issues up to debate. That makes the Nordic debate in many ways more vital and more interesting. After calling the war with its polarization restrictions on some of the Nordic countries' freedom of action and cooperation in foreign and defence policy, we can now rejoice that this is a policy area which is not so difficult to approach as before. However, it is important that Norway does so within the framework of Atlantic defence cooperation through NATO. In other words, Nordic cooperation will be primarily technical-operational and economic. The current system within NORDEFCO is in good development. It is a matter of practical pragmatic cooperation based on identified needs in the defence organisations of the countries. Here, as you know, Norway has the Presidency in 2014. In addition, Nordic cooperation as a driving force for Sweden and Finland's approach to NATO provides a positive added value for all of us in the Nordic region. While addressing the need for security policy challenges in the context of NATO, there will also clearly be benefits from regional cooperation in the Nordic region. A major conflict in the Nordic region will necessarily affect all Nordic countries, and a joint coordinated effort will be a strength. Of course, this should not be confused with an alternative security guarantee — the Nordic countries do not, in their opinion, have any independent capacity to guarantee their own security. In everyday life, however, local cooperation with neighbouring countries will be possible. The same applies to some patrol and surveillance tasks. Cooperation may also be relevant in the fields of strength production functions such as education, material maintenance, material investment and practice. In order to maintain an almost balanced defence structure at all within realistic and economic frameworks, small countries such as the Nordics have a great need to find partners. Geographical proximity, cultural and traditional similarities and similarities in size and arrangement of defence organisations in the countries make the Nordic region a natural cooperation region. Such cooperation must be based on identified needs and a practical and pragmatic approach. So, on the Right, we welcome the strong development of practical and pragmatic cooperation in the field of defence – and there is still a need to go further. My impression is that this cooperation is going well because it stems from common needs in the different countries, but we point out that it has to happen in a way that more strengths than weakens our NATO relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e516	Nordic cooperation in foreign and security policy is strengthened both in breadth and depth. It provides concrete, mutual and visible Nordic benefits. Nordic cooperation is also receiving increasing attention outside the Nordic region and has become a model of modern regional cooperation. We were early out with this Nordic cooperation, and it has also inspired other regional initiatives. We now see this with the African Union, which is playing a more and more important role for Africa. We see it with the so-called Pacific Alliance, which is now formed in Central American and South American countries. We also see it through ASEAN, which plays a more and more important role in Southeast Asia. The Nordic countries have shown that countries that focus on having an open economy and are competitive, are also able to defend a robust welfare society. The government continues the visions of the Stoltenberg report into political and concrete cooperation in a broad, flexible and long-term perspective. We must also look at very practical initiatives. During NATO’s air surveillance in Iceland, which is now taking place in January and February, Norway is actually a support nation for Sweden and Finland in their participation in the exercise and training part. At the same time as air surveillance, we are going to have a new Nordic Foreign and Defence Ministerial meeting in Iceland, where we will also look at the opportunities to strengthen this cooperation in the future. We also see that in the context of international crisis operations it is an important Nordic cooperation. We see that Denmark and Norway, in close coordination with the OPCW, are now working together to bring the chemical weapons out of Syria. If one year ago they had said that the Nordic countries, based on a security resolution, would stand in the lead to bring chemical weapons out of Syria, so that they could not be used against the civilian population again, I think many would be quite positively surprised in that way. In Mali, Norway and Denmark cooperate in the framework of the United Nations Operation Intelligence Unit. In Afghanistan, we have also cooperated for many years. In the course of a few decades, the north has gone from being a security policy area to becoming a power centre for energy and nutrition policy. Rich natural resources and increasing geopolitical importance make the region attractive. Norway is a polarisation and an Arctic coastal state with the right to have enormous natural resources. As several representatives have been involved, we have many opportunities and challenges in the north. We also meet them with Russia. As many people have been involved, we have close and good cooperation with Russia and also an open dialogue on issues where we disagree. I myself will visit Russia on Monday, and I will also have talks with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov. An interesting perspective that is useful to remember, is that the limit that Norway and Russia have, up to 25 years ago, was a barrier. We want to make it a bridge, that the border also expands cooperation, and that it deepens. As I said in the introduction, there is now increasing international attention around Nordic cooperation. It can be seen that the Nordic countries, which have also had a successful economic policy, are something the rest of the world is looking for for inspiration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e536	In Norway, Thorvald Stoltenberg is best known for being the father of Barents' cooperation, but in Nordic institutions and contexts he is probably best known for the Stoltenberg report on increased cooperation on defence policy and foreign policy between the Nordic countries, followed by the Nordic Declaration of Cooperation – the Declaration of Solidarity – by the Foreign Ministers in April 2011. There are many points where, a lot has been followed up, and not least defence cooperation is one of the most successful and dynamic things we now have. On one point, however, some Nordic parliamentarians probably lack follow-up, and this is about embassy cooperation. This may be a difficult point, but it is a question of having common tasks, of co-location, of flexibility and of having a Nordic identity in the EEAS as well. How far has this come from the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e541	The representative Nybakk is well aware of the work that has been attempted in recent years, also to create greater ownership in all Nordic countries around the possibilities of co-location. We have a good example in Berlin that I think in principle works well. I think even there are opportunities for even greater synergies between the different Nordic countries. From my side, I'm positive to that kind of co-location. I think it might be good for the Nordics, too. It has an economic side, but it also has a positive side in terms of recognition. What would have been great is if you had, for example, This could be done in New York, where both the UN Delegations and other representations are held.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e547	I thank the Council of State for his contributions and understand that we have little disagreement about the importance of the northern regions and that they should be further developed. The Councils of State were in their intervention on Russia and the importance of Russia for Norway. I think most people in this room share that perception. Russia is our second-largest neighbour. It's a big customer, actually the largest buyer of Norwegian fish, who has significant value creation for the nation. But unlike our Nordic neighbours, with whom we also have a very good relationship, we have less systematic political cooperation. It's my opinion that there are fewer arenas, and that they are characterized by less continuity. My questions to the Council of State will first of all be: does the Council of State agree that we need to develop those areas of cooperation and get more with better continuity? Does the Council of State have any idea of how we can develop political cooperation with Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e556	I believe Norway has a good history of cooperation with Russia. Unlike Sweden and Finland, we are a member of NATO, and we share large sea areas with Russia, which I think we have done well. I also think that practical cooperation with Russia within the so-called Economic Commission has been good and constructive. We also have a separate commission on environmental cooperation. It's also been practical. There we have made quite a number of important investments to ensure the environment and nuclear safety in the North Callot. Of course, we can think about whether there are other areas that we could have considered in addition. But we have also had very active bilateral cooperation, and as I said, I will meet with Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov on Monday – and have a long list of opportunities to strengthen cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e561	Thanks for the answer. I share the foreign minister's view that we are working well with Russia. I was just looking for opportunities to strengthen cooperation, because I might perceive that there is a little bit of a lack of systematics, and I don't perceive that it's the bad will of some parties. We could also mention regional relations – including political – with Russia as part of a success story we have had. I want to follow up on another issue: Under the Stoltenberg II government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs played an important role in the Northern Region bet, among others. in the case of building capacity and infrastructure in educational institutions – precisely for which I was involved in my speech, that knowledge of the northern regions should be for the northern regions, and it should be located in the northern regions. Examples of challenges and opportunities in the north are both preparedness and knowledge of cold climates, and there can also be a focus on international business development; that is, moving into a value creation area in the north, creating opportunities. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs help to continue building capacity in the northern regions of the knowledge institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e570	The short answer to that is yes. Knowledge is the key to understanding and cooperating on north-eastern policy. This is actually a discussion of Nordic cooperation. This is now going to be a lot of a discussion about the Northern Region bet. I also think there is a great potential for doing more in a Nordic context in the north, and also in cooperation with Russia. When, for example: In fact, Norway’s cooperation with Russia, of which the representative was concerned in its first line, I believe that Norway has a very structured cooperation with Russia – and has not least had it in the last eight years – compared to, for example, Norway. our neighbouring country Sweden, as the representative mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e575	The President will draw attention to the fact that we are also examining the annual report for Arctic Councils, not just Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e578	I have also read several of the figures to the Foreign Minister, both from Tromsø and London, on these questions. I thought they were good and interesting, and I noticed that he was early on making this an important priority, and I think that makes sense. I believe that for ten years to come, Norwegian foreign ministers, as well as other government councils, will give priority to different north-eastern issues directly through the Nordic Council and through the Arctic Council. There's one thing I want to ask about, because I put a question again after reading the speech he gave in London. A few decades ago, we opened the Barents Sea area for petroleum activity, and since this has in reality been the northern limit for which it is now possible to imagine that we are going to have oil and petroleum activity. There is not much activity north of the border, but it has been opened. There are other things going on in the media sometimes, but no one has taken any concrete initiative to open up any further north. Can the Foreign Minister assure you that the government will not open the petroleum activity area north of what is already open?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e587	First, I very much appreciate the fact that the representative has read both the speech from Tromsø and the speech I gave at the National Geographic Society in London where I was faced with several of these dilemmas. What Norway has done well is to combine oil and gas activities and also to have a strong growth in its fisheries. We have a lot of good to show you there. In the 1970s, many people thought it was not possible to combine this. We've never had more cod in the Barents Sea than we have now. One million tonnes of cod are taken out this year in cooperation with Russia. It turns out that it is possible to do this hand in hand. But then we must also impose strict environmental requirements. With regard to precisely the most specific issue raised by the representative, this question must be raised to the Minister of Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e594	I am grateful to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good report that gives us the opportunity to address various issues that are relevant to, among other things. the Arctic-parliamentary cooperation, which we are also discussing in this matter. We see – in addition to climate challenges and human challenges that exist in a large area – increased opportunities for value creation. But it doesn't just give us opportunities, it gives us challenges. One of the themes is increased transport in a vulnerable area, and I know it's working to put in place a polar code in the IMO to get legislation on how ships and crew will operate in the Arctic. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about how far work has come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e601	The IMO is the United Nations Maritime Organisation, inter alia, and sets important requirements for both safety and the environment. For the government, it is important to have an active policy within the IMO – whether it is strict and adapted requirements in the northern regions, or how to treat ballast water emitted by ships. With regard to the so-called ‘Polar Code’ in IMO context, what is important for the government now in the future is that we ensure that maritime transport is regulated in such a way that it is as far as possible outside what is the most vulnerable areas, and that there is a master who is adapted to the Arctic climate as well. If you want to create a broad consensus on this, it's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e608	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e611	Cooperation in the Nordic Council is diverse and exciting, and in many fields we can learn from each other and coordinate. We can share in each other's experiences, and we can find the good solutions. I especially want to develop health, where there are a lot of important things where we can learn from each other, and not least put our knowledge together to find better and newer solutions. Recent treatment methods, highly specialised medicine, recruitment and research are some of the areas that I think we should exploit better. As a member of the welfare committee, I have participated in several proposals that are of interest to be implemented in individual countries. I would like to mention the proposal to reduce the use of alcohol and tobacco from a public health perspective, the proposal on how to create a good life for the elderly in the Nordic region, and the proposal on innovation, welfare technology and telemedicine, which is one of the things we think it should work together more closely. It is precisely a working group that is now set up in the BSPC to work on the next two years: to provide good examples for everyone. The proposal, which has also been put forward on a common electronic register for healthcare professionals in the Nordic region in order to increase patient safety, is another proposal which should definitely be considered in greater detail, and it should be implemented if desired politically. The proposal is as topical today as it was when it was promoted, and I hope that the Nordic Council of Ministers will see the benefits in it soon. As head of the control committee of the Nordic Council, I have also become acquainted with the many fine institutions we have under the direction of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Control Committee has visited many of them to see what kind of Nordic benefits they have, and I am impressed by the diversity and the value of the Nordic benefits in terms of the job they do. There is a lot of good competence, there is a lot of good cultural exchange, and we have a sharing of the labour market and sharing of research results that are important contributions to the Nordic region. As small countries, we are weak, but together we are stronger when we are in the larger community. Creating understanding of the challenges of the different countries, the language and getting acquainted with other politicians and other political systems and solutions is creating the living Nordics. One of the major challenges facing the Nordic Council, which we also heard that a representative was involved in the past, is that there are always many proposals from members with whom nothing ever happens again. There are, of course, many reasons for this, but a lot of stops enough in the civil servants' committees or in the Council of Ministers, and good ideas beaches because you don't take the necessary steps. I think it's a pity for Nordic cooperation, and it puts Nordic cooperation in a bad light. It would be a strength for Nordic cooperation to have a faster approach to proposals, as well as to implement more of the proposals than today – because it must be useful to sit in the Nordic Council, make proposals and see results. The consolation is that Catharina Peters in her report, in which she randomly checked a number of recommendations, showed that although many of the proposals did not have a political impact or led to legislative changes, many of them had led to changes in policy in one or more countries — or they had led to changes in vision in some area in some country, where some politician had taken it home as a good idea. We politicians bring along the good ideas, and we change where we can. We can also use the Nordic Council and the work done there. A strong Nordic region in Europe is important, and therefore we should be active in helping us get a Nordic region in Europe and a Europe in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e643	As others have mentioned, we have an Arctic in development. Ice melting, expectations of undiscovered natural resources, increased interest in maritime activity and maritime transport along the northern sea routes and an increasing interest in the Arctic internationally — these are some of the trends and represent both opportunities and challenges for Norway. Norwegian interests shall be safeguarded, while developing areas through international cooperation. From a security policy point of view, the Arctic coastal states – Norway, Russia, Canada, the United States and Denmark – have very similar interests in the region. This reduces the risk of conflict, but we see a number of actors positioning themselves in view of future interests. Reduced sea ice has led to increased shipping traffic carrying goods from Europe to Asia through the North Sea route – from 4 ships in 2010 to 71 ships in 2013. In addition, there has also been an increase in cruise traffic, and we see fishing boats increasingly north as a result of which the sea gets warmer. There is a great likelihood that the increase will continue in the years to come. These trends will have an impact on value creation in northern Norway. As a potential last port before entering the North Sea Route, it is important to position Norway with offers, with relevant services and land-based services for both shipping and cruise traffic. In addition to focusing on business development, Norway needs to be a driving force in order to establish an international regulatory framework to protect people and the environment in the northern regions. I am therefore pleased that the Barents Council, consisting of the Nordic Foreign Ministers and the Russian, adopted in October a climate action plan for the Barents region. As Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende mentioned, for the bourgeois parties there is an increased commitment to research. This also applies to targeted and continuous research in the Arctic. Knowledge ensures the provision of future interests and is necessary to maintain regulations and rights in the Arctic. Technological development is important in addressing challenges in fisheries and aquaculture, the oil sector, the mining industry – for all those operating in a tough climate and geography. Many nations research a lot in the Arctic environment. Norway should have an ambition to be at the forefront of knowledge about the Arctic. The brother part of the knowledge is located north, with Tromsø as the capital of the Arctic for research: We have the Present Center, the Norwegian Polar Institute, the Arctic University of Norway and the School of Fisheries, and in addition we have the Secretariat of the Arctic Council, which is growing both in size and importance. More research in the Arctic is a key to Nordic development. Through research cooperation and student exchange, joint courses between universities, colleges and different industries in the north, we can further strengthen this area. The Government Platform refers to a comprehensive management and development plan for the sustainable use of natural resources in the northern regions. With an Arctic in progress, we have very concrete measures to work with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e660	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e663	I think it is nice to note that there is a good life in Nordic cooperation, but then it is certainly also necessary and important! In a world that is becoming smaller – through globalisation processes – it is crucial for the Nordic countries that we can mobilise the competitiveness needed to meet the very fact that the international community is shrinking. Each one of us – each one – we are small. All together, we're bigger. An important perspective, which has been highlighted, is how we appear as a region in the world, how the world looks at us, how we are perceived, and the Nordic model – characterised by the Nordic welfare models – has been mentioned several times here today. I would like to draw up a perspective on the assumption of the Nordic welfare model, namely the issue of the common Nordic perception of democracy and human rights. I think these are topics that are just characteristic of the Nordics, and that are part of the picture we should show of ourselves out in the world. Because I think it really is that we have high standards in these areas. I think the Norwegian and Nordic population are concerned with these issues, but then it might be that this is something we all agree on, and that there is little political conflict in this, at least internally in the Nordic region. And so maybe the constant attention isn't as big as it should have been. In that perspective, it's likely to surprise someone that, in relation to UN standards on human rights work, it's not as good as we might have thought. So in an international context, only Denmark is a so-called A-nation in relation to the United Nations requirements. The rest of us in the Nordic region have a job to do, and I will try to help do something about it through parliamentary cooperation. I believe that, as parliamentarians, we can use the channels we have through the international delegations to strengthen this very profile. In connection with the Nordic Council, we had an important meeting here between the Heads of Parliament, where this was precisely a topic. Party cooperation, in addition to this, with the breadth of parliamentary work on which it is based, could be an important instrument for our active use.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e677	The representative Sivertsen stated that the North Region policy must be seen from an international perspective, and I agree with that, of course, but the North Region policy and activities in the North are all about us people who live and live there, and in that perspective, different resource issues and the management of them are going to have a big place. So if we do this right, it's still going to be "light in the house" -- not only literally, but also in a security policy perspective. If we look at my own home country, today we experience a Finnland where young people come back, they have children and have a great faith in a future in our state. There are several reasons for this, but most of it is rooted in wise political decisions and a wild policy on how our common resources are managed for the benefit of the people who live there. A good friend of mine has ghostly described the positive development in my home country as a journey from the time when many ‘stresses’ perceived that large parts of the population in Finnmark depended on the three Ts: Social Security, Typing and Supplements. Hopefully that time is over! I deliberately use the word 'hopefully' because I fear that one T, namely social security, can once again become a way of life for the inhabitants of many fisheries-dependent communities along the coast. I do not know whether the expression 'cursed' is a parliamentary expression, but it at least expresses the state of mind of many in Finland at these times. The reason is that large fishing groups, such as the Aker group, are in the process of managing fishing resources worth billions through access to valuable trawl concessions – as if they were in the group’s eternal ownership. That's what makes people in Finnmark furious. We also know that all the irradiation concessions are accompanied by comprehensive delivery obligations, offer obligations, processing obligations and obligation to operate differently and to a different extent – obligations that the Aker group in the eyes of many people arrogantly ignore. Yesterday’s Question Time was not uplifting in order to inform the Aker group that they must never forget that they have access to the fish resources on loans. I would like to repeat from this platform a message to the government and the Aker group: take seriously the social contract – given through concession terms – and the purpose paragraph of the delivery regulations! What is happening now only shows that resource management is a very important part of the Northern Region policy, and of which a very important part of Arctic parliamentary cooperation in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e692	The Nordic regions are Norway’s most important strategic foreign policy area and are of great importance for Norway, both strategically, economically and security policy. We all agree on that. Norway is an Arctic state; we have Norwegian Arctic territory with Svalbard, Jan Mayen and the sons of the sea around it. There are large areas of pristine nature, vast areas, scattered settlements and there are great resources. All of this makes the Arctic and the North areas interesting in many areas, where climate challenges, people and value creation are to be united. The interest in the Arctic has steadily increased — nationally, in arctic countries between countries, and internationally. Developments in the Arctic face challenges, but also new opportunities as a result of increased availability: new trade routes, which are perceived to be interesting in order to shorten short sailing times. China is positioning itself big for this. Many others also see this, but it may not all have a realistic approach to it. Norway is the gateway to the northern maritime route between Europe and Asia, which runs north of Russia. As I said, the rug is serious, but we see the opportunities offered by both fishing, cruise ships, freight transport and offshore installations, but there is a need for clear driving rules that ensure safety for people and the environment in the Arctic. We must have a Polar Code in place within the IMO as soon as possible, which provides rules for ships and crew to operate in the Arctic. We also need a better infrastructure for, among other things. communication, monitoring of ice conditions, and search and rescue services in the Arctic. The heavy oil debate is controversial, but it is necessary to establish a clear regulatory framework for that too. Think of an emission in vulnerable areas, e.g. around Svalbard in connection with cruise traffic. That would be fatal. Transport is important in the north to exploit its potential. A Barent transport plan shall be developed on the initiative of Norway. That's very good. You have to see not only north-south, but also east-west. For the Central Party, it is very important that Norway sits in the driver’s seat to reconcile the interests of climate challenges, good development for local communities and the people living in these areas with the increased potential for value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e709	Climate and environmental issues are a natural and very important part of the work of Arctic Councils. It is important to note that in recent years working groups have produced reports on the main elements of Arctic climate change such as marine acidification, the Arctic natural diversity and short-lived climate drivers. Climate change is occurring faster in the Arctic than in the rest of the world. The climate reports show that the Arctic temperature rise is twice as fast there as elsewhere. In the Arctic, the sea ice melts. This makes the Arctic available for both the exploitation of natural resources such as fish, oil and gas, and maritime traffic, whether in the Northern Sea Route or the possibilities for increased cruise traffic. We've seen in recent years that cruise boats travel further north, for example. around Svalbard and along the coast of Greenland. The northern sea route along the Arctic coast of Russia is available for larger parts of the year. Mainly, this means increased destination traffic to different places along the Russian coast, but also a large increase in ships carrying goods from Europe to Asia. This was 71 ships in 2013. We have also seen that the fishing boats operate much further north than usual. This happens in large parts of the Arctic, and in many ways we can say that the activity follows the edge of the ice. The picture of value creation in Arctic areas, whether in the field of natural resource extraction or new transport years, depends on our being able to find the good, knowledge-based and balanced solutions, where climate and environmental considerations are well cared for. This is a work that requires cooperation and knowledge sharing, and therefore the work of the Arctic Council and Nordic cooperation is important. The agreement with Russia on the Barents Sea border, signed in 2010, is likely to be without comparison the most significant event in recent years for the development of Norwegian North Sea policy. This agreement also opens much more to the monitoring of resources in this area, and we know that the likelihood of the presence of petroleum deposits in this area is great. The agreement between Norway and Russia is also a symbol that we are now in a new era, when the cold war is behind us. We see today a good cooperation between Russia and Norway. This borderline agreement is also an inspiration and encouragement to other countries in the Arctic that have unexplained borders. There are several of us who are concerned about the development of democratic rules in Russia and in particular the role of organisations. It is important to include these issues in the meetings and conversations we have in dialogue with our Russian colleagues at all levels, when we meet in different contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e726	Despite the fact that many will claim that the cause of world attention to the north and the Arctic is climate change, I would argue that the great economic potential lies in the region’s huge natural resources – fish, minerals, oil and gas – that is the cause. There is little doubt that we are facing a new era in terms of business opportunities and increased activities in the north. This does not apply only to the interests of Norway in the north. Canada, the United States and Russia also face many of the same challenges: large resources and a vulnerable and vulnerable nature and environment. There is little doubt that access to energy sources and their flow have been crucial for global strategic policies over the past 40 years. Nor is there any doubt that the ICT industry has needed and will need minerals in the future. The same demand for minerals will have alternative, renewable energy sources. Nor is there any doubt that the Arctic regions produce large amounts of healthy food such as fish, crustaceans, crabs and much more. Therefore, one of our main challenges will be to create resources in the north of the markets in a safe and environmentally friendly way, with the opportunities it can provide for Norway, with our strategic geographical location. It is therefore important that we have the ability to raise our eyes and think about how we can effectively cooperate with our neighbouring countries, Sweden, Finland and Russia, in order to put in place transport routes and logistics that can solve our common challenges. We have to put in place different transport routes, both at sea and to land, which enable us to develop the North Callot in a much better way than we do today. We see that Finland is discussing and seeing a new rail link to the north coast. Here, Norway must get on the track so that we, together with Finns, can facilitate the entry of such a railway into Norwegian ports for ore and minerals. Nor is there any doubt that most roads, both in Norway and our neighbouring countries, go from north to south. There is no doubt that if we are to be able to exploit our potential in the north, we must also put in place routes for the east-west in a much better way than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e743	Nordic cooperation has evolved over many years and is based on the principle that there is something we have in common, which is important to take care of. This is about language and culture, but also about a particular way of building our societies, where a social security network is important to protect those who fall outside. Some people call it the Nordic welfare model. Since several Nordic countries have become members of the EU, it is natural to ask questions about the role of the Nordic Council in the years to come. In the past, foreign policy and defence policy have not been issues of Nordic cooperation, but can now be important issues to discuss in the future. It is important to coordinate key Nordic issues when meeting in international bodies such as the UN, NATO and the EU. At the same time, we need clear Norwegian positions on key policy issues such as human rights, social policy and youth unemployment. One challenge we are facing is that we cannot break the North from Europe. More than ever, we see that important political issues such as climate are boundless. They're boundless in the sense that they can't just be solved in a Nordic context. We have challenges in Europe in addition to economic ones. We have a generation of young people who are out of work and who lose faith in the nation-state's ability to solve their problems. This is serious for two reasons: on the one hand, it gives rise to poverty, but on the other, it also gives less faith in democracy – which is the basis for the development of wealth in Europe. There is no reason to believe that youth unemployment cannot affect the Nordic countries. It's more of a question of when and how we solve these challenges. In this area, Nordic cooperation can develop a solution, in both a Nordic and a European framework. We have a tradition of balancing active industrial development with state instruments to achieve high employment in bad times. Frontier-free Europe is also about having clear social policy objectives and instruments. Trafficking and social dumping are areas where Nordic cooperation can have a leading role and develop a policy for Europe. Norway and the Nordic countries have played a central role in modern human rights. We should continue to play that role. In an increasingly challenging image of human rights violations globally, we should set the standard locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e762	I have asked for extra speaking time because climate and environmental policies are an important area of Nordic cooperation. There are major changes in the Arctic. Much of the debate on the Arctic and the North is just about what opportunities these changes give us. There's nothing wrong with discussing this, but at the same time we have to remember what's behind the carpet. Earth's climate is changing. The temperature is rising. The ice in the Arctic is melting. Global warming has major consequences in the Arctic. It's our duty to reduce CO2 emissions. We have a moral responsibility to reduce emissions of short-lived greenhouse gases and soot. Soot settles on the ice in the Arctic and attracts heat from the sun. It makes the ice melt faster. Reduced soot emissions will have almost immediate effects on the Arctic ice melting. The increased CO2 emissions also contribute to the acidification of the sea. Norwegian sea areas are particularly exposed to marine acidification, particularly in the north. The reason for this is, among other things: cold water can absorb more CO2 than warmer water. This may cause problems for animals dependent on lime to build shells or skeletons. Plankton species, shrimps, lobsters, starfish, hookballs and corals are endangered species in the short term. Since the food chains in the Arctic are relatively short, small changes may have greater consequences there than in places where there are more species. Now I'm not supposed to be a party brake. Clearly, we're going to take advantage of new opportunities in the Arctic. But I want to remind you that while we're doing this, we still have to work to reduce emissions. Arctic Councils must continue to develop positively. We need to ensure that Arctic countries cooperate closely to meet the Arctic environmental challenges. We need to cooperate through research to understand what is happening to the Arctic environment. And, not least, we should have binding legal agreements in place to reduce the emissions of soot and other short-lived greenhouse gases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e786	Many people have been involved in the good and tidy cooperation we have with our neighbor in the East in a number of sectors and areas of society, so I'm not going to spend so much time on it in my post. But I would like to stress that political cooperation has produced results that contribute to increased interaction between people on both sides, and perhaps the border settlement certificate is an action that has just led to it. I also look forward to the outcome of our Foreign Minister's talks with the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs, and then with a hope that the border residence certificate might be extended even further. Someone's talking about maybe it could include the whole Finnmark state and the Murman state. That people on both sides of the border will interact, there is no doubt about it. That's also why I'm taking the word afterwards, just to make it better. I want to be specific and say something about the border station at Storskog. You might say that there are things that should have been done, that have not been done, but at least we know that the number of border crossings in 2013 will probably pass 300,000. It's positive, but it can also be very frustrating, because it takes so long to cross the border. Norway still has a job to do here, and it is also worth noting that Russia recently announced that they would invest 25 million. EUR in a new Boris Gleb border station funded by EU funds through the Kolarctic programme. I have a message for our foreign minister: the plans are for an extension, but the money is missing. Finally, despite the fact that we can all do much more to facilitate further development in the north, perhaps the words of the rapporteur at Nikel can give an idea that there is a lot of work to do and that, for example, there is a lot of work to do. border residence certificates have helped to link people together. On behalf of its home town, Nikel, the rapporteur has stated that they want to make Nikel the most Norwegian city in Russia, just as Kirkenes is the most Russian city in Norway. When such statements fall, there is evidence that we have achieved a great deal in our Northern Region policy and thus laid a good foundation for the parliamentary anchoring of the Arctic Council. You get what you want, but something just takes longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e796	I don't think I should provoke the hall. I just want to thank you for a broad and good debate on the subject in these two Nordic issues for which I have been responsible. There have been many important aspects of our Nordic cooperation in the debate, and things that have been raised that are important for this hall and for the other Nordic countries in the increasingly globalised world of which we are all a part. We are small cultures, and in many ways we can strengthen them together here in the Nordic region. A good and small example is just cooperation on small crafts, for example. the boatbuilder project. Other areas of cooperation in the field of culture are just literature, media and languages. I have a special relationship with language because I have my own personal memory from when I was a real school student. Then I was going to learn to write neuron, but everything was full of red lines from the teacher because what I was actually doing was speaking Swedish. That's what we in Fredrikstad could do best that time. But the Nordic region is important to us, and there are many good instruments in the cultural field. Things have been retrospective in the hall today, but we've got exciting new cooperation projects up, for example. for innovation and industrial policy for the period 2014-2017. The representative, Olemic Thommessen, said from this pulpit earlier today that we are strong together. Then I got a picture in my head of the three Musketeers as a possible heading for continued Nordic cooperation: one for all, all for one.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e805	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e819	Work on international terrorism has been on the agenda of the United Nations for decades. 13 international conventions have been developed under the auspices of the United Nations and affect various forms of terrorist action. Norway is a party to the first twelve, and now we're going to ratify the thirteen. The International Convention against Nuclear Terrorism was adopted by the United Nations as early as April 2005 and opened for signing the same harvest. Norway was among the first to sign on 16 September. It is now signed by 115 countries and 86 parties. The purpose of the Convention shall be, inter alia, to: preventing terrorist groups from accessing nuclear weapons and materials and strengthening the existing legal framework against terrorism. The Convention obliges the parties to criminalise the possession and/or use of radioactive material, nuclear material or nuclear devices with a view to carrying out various types of acts of terrorism through police and judicial cooperation in order to prevent, investigate and prosecute such crime. The Convention also requires countries to ensure nuclear material in accordance with standards established by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). When we signed the Convention, it was suggested that Norwegian criminal law had already affected most of the conditions that the Convention requires criminalised, but that the implementation of the Convention would require certain changes to the penal code. Proposals for these necessary amendments for Norwegian ratification were made in Ot. pp. No 8 for 2007–08, About the Act amending the Criminal Code 20 May 2005 No 28 p.m. However, the problem has been that the penal code of 2005 has not yet been implemented. In order to facilitate Norwegian ratification of the Convention, the Criminal Code of 1902 was amended in June 2012, while some minor adjustments were made to the Criminal Code of 2005. These legislative changes ensure that Norway can fully implement the Nuclear Terrorism Convention and will therefore not require legislative changes or other measures beyond those already in place. A unanimous committee sees the Convention as a new, solid instrument in the national and international fight against nuclear terrorism and recommends its ratification. Norway will thus have ratified all 13 UN conventions affecting various forms of acts of terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e836	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e850	Norway has been a driver and actor in non-proliferation and disarmament, both globally, within the United Nations system and internally within the NATO alliance. Norway was an active party when the Ottawa agreement on landmines became applicable international law in 1999. And in 2008, the agreement on the prohibition of class weapons was signed. Here, Norwegian authorities and non-governmental organisations were both initiators and drivers in the process. When the Storting agrees today with the ratification of the Arms Trade Treaty Agreement of 2 April 2013, it is another important milestone. There has been a growing recognition for many years of the need for a global agreement regulating trade in conventional weapons. We often talk about chemical weapons, about biological weapons, and maybe primarily about nuclear weapons like weapons of mass destruction. But the weapons that kill thousands of people every year are small arms – conventional weapons. Just take as an example the civil wars in Sierra Leone and Liberia or the massacre in Srebrenica. It is conventional weapons that have led to bloodbath and mass death. These are conventional weapons and ammunition, in particular small arms and light weapons. Illegal trafficking and the slurred or uncontrolled sale of such weapons is an important cause of major human suffering all over the globe, it is stated in the document from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Stortinget. Arms Trade Treaty is an important instrument in the pursuit of more responsible arms trade and a contribution to the work to reduce the illicit trafficking of such weapons. A unanimous committee stresses that the agreement is an important part of the basis for global efforts to reduce armed violence and human suffering. The scope of the Agreement includes at least the seven arms categories in the UN Conventional Arms Register. The decision on the agreement at the UN General Assembly represented the end of a long process that formally began with Resolution 64/48 in 2009. The resolution gave the mandate for negotiations for the conclusion of a legally binding agreement on trade in conventional weapons. In the following years, there were several preparatory meetings in the UN before a four-week United Nations Conference on the Agreement from 2 to 28. ==References== However, this was not the case. But the following April 2nd year, after many interludes, the agreement – Arms Trade Treaty – was adopted. During the negotiations, Norway has worked towards a strong agreement with humanitarian devices. And the agreement is a strong agreement with humanitarian devices – although it could be more extensive. Norway argued during the negotiations that the agreement should cover all conventional weapons and ammunition — and parts and components. As a result, the scope of the agreement covers at least the seven arms categories in the UN's own conventional weapons register, as well as small arms and light weapons. Hopefully, the agreement will contribute to more cooperation, transparency and accountability of the parties with regard to trade in arms and other strategic and defence-related products. Finally, the Committee notes that the agreement does not entail legal changes – this is because the provisions of the agreement on export control can be implemented on the basis of the law on control of exports of strategic goods, services and technology, etc. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs announced that it would review the overall legislation in this area in order to look at the possible harmonisation of the arms agreement and the different parts of the legislation. I refer here to the Foreign Affairs Committee's consideration of the annual report on export control and international non-proliferation cooperation, which comes up in Stortinget later this spring. It stresses that Norwegian export controls and the practices we have in this area comply with the prohibition and assessment criteria set out in the agreement, inter alia. Articles 6 and 7. I therefore recommend the unanimous vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e873	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e889	In this room – in the Norwegian Parliament, in Stortinget – quite a lot of courageous action has been taken in the last 200 years for education. In a few days, it's 130 years since the Left was founded. Then it was to build a school and education for all Norwegian children one of the most important jobs you started with. Norway has gone from being an enormously poor country, where one did not fully understand why all children should necessarily learn to write and calculate, to become the knowledge nation we are today. I sometimes think we're going to turn around, look back and remember that when you first started with the common public elementary school, which the Left helped to establish in Norway, there was little understanding among many adults as to why children should definitely learn to write and count – those who would never hold in a sheet during their professional career, and whose families became poorer because the children went to school and couldn't work. Nevertheless, brave choices were made in this room. Nevertheless, knowledge was chosen as a priority. Now we're talking about our knowledge being our most important national asset. These are very important areas of activity to bring the country out of poverty. Knowledge and education are the very key to a good functioning economy, to the development of economic activity in individual countries, which enables well-being for the future. Knowledge is very important for the health of each individual. Last year we celebrated the anniversary of the voting rights. Many of the women who fought female voting in Norway also had health policies and knowledge of public health as their main themes in political engagement. It is important for the environment and the climate that citizens have knowledge of the effects of nature on us and what effects we can have on nature. It is important for the development of democracy that citizens have both knowledge of governance and the ability to influence. It's important for equality that all girls and all boys get equal rights to education. Therefore, education should be the cornerstone of any development policy. Since the turn of the millennium, the number of children without schooling has halved. There's become more likeness between the number of girls and boys who get education. But the fine increase has now stopped. The reason we have come so far is that there has been targeted coordination from national authorities to make this promise. If we're going to get to the goal, we're going to have to bet on it. Still, there are 57 million children who do not go to school, and many who get school get poor quality schooling. 60 million children drop out of school before fourth grade – it puts the term drop-outs in a slightly different perspective. 130 million children begin in the fourth grade without mastering basic reading skills. There are also some who do in Norwegian school. The most important thing to combat it is to have good teachers in absolutely every country. It is then necessary to build modern teacher training, to develop curricula, and to build capacity within the individual fields of education. I think we need approx. 1.7 million more teachers in the world to be able to do the big problem we have in front of us. Norway has great credibility in the fact that we have had a strong commitment to children’s rights over a long period of time. We've had a free and universal public school from the left base 130 years ago. We've been the drivers of children's rights worldwide for over ten years. In fact, protection, care and participation are as important a part of school as being able to read and write. Today, we see in many places around the world that physical punishment and humiliation are part of school life for very many schoolchildren. It affects their quality of life. Fear and shame also do not mean that we get good learning. The dissemination of values and human views that we must stand for is important to contribute to education. Kids will learn to respect others in school, and then the school will have to respect them as well. How can we expect democratic values to be developed in a school if you are always exposed to the power of justice? And how are we going to achieve equality in the world if we have a school that treats girls and boys differently? The empowerment of the individual citizen, even when that citizen is a little girl or a little boy, is the best thing to raise everyone. All girls must be allowed to begin school. Now we've had an awakening in world politics, much because of what Malala has done, what she's stood for, and what she was exposed to - shot by the Taliban on her way to school. She was no casual victim. Unfortunately, there are many examples. It's dangerous to be a girl and go to school in many places in the world. There are forces that are bent on creating fear in women, that they will not acquire knowledge – of fear that knowledge-rich women will take power in society. The government has said it will work for girls' right to education. In many places, it is also important to focus on female teachers — as role models, but also on the safety of individual students. There are too many girls in schools around the world who are exposed to sexual harassment and sexual attention from male teachers. Girls are also the most vulnerable in crises and conflicts. Schools shall be protected and experienced arenas, especially for those most at risk, and they are often girls. It gets other interesting consequences even when girls get school. According to UNICEF, girls who have high school are up to six times less likely to be child-breeding than those who do not. They'll give birth later. Each additional year at school reduces the risk of infant mortality by between 5 and 10 pst. A child who has a reading mother has 50 pst. greater chance of living more than five years. In sub-Saharan Africa, 1.8 million children could have been saved if only their mothers had completed high school. Norwegian aid should therefore give priority to primary education in the future. Too many countries give priority to higher education, and this is at the expense of children’s education. It is important to build up the foundations of a society that is committed to lifting all, to make progress in society – just as we chose to do in Norway 130 years ago. When I put this interpellation today, it's not to convince the Council of State – I think he's really convinced – but I'm asking for a leadership strategy to achieve this goal. Who are we going to ally with, and which are we going to go to to create a good division of labour between us? And then it creates two dilemmas. First of all, it is not necessarily the countries that score the best in government and democracy, which are the countries that need the most help to get to school. In selecting countries to work with, it is often the vulnerable countries, the countries in conflict – which are not the popular recipient countries – that are the ones who actually need the most help in doing so. The second challenge I want to present to the Council of State is that the OECD has told us that we need to have more performance finance in the aid. As far as this group is concerned, it's often the poor, the marginalized, those with a different mother tongue, those with a disability, those with a low learning outcomes that are prioritised down, even though it's those that are important to prioritize. How can we ensure that these children are not pushed out of school for fear that they will contribute to lower funding, whose goal is only the results of their schooling? To sum up, I have two main questions for the Council of State: how are we going to take a leading role in such an important area? And how are we to ensure that the objectives we set do not conflict with the other objectives we have in the aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e915	First, I would like to thank the representative Skei Grande for raising a debate on such an important issue in the Stortinget. I also hope that, in the future, the Stortinget can be a place where the government can come up with issues, and that together you can design an offensive Norwegian strategy to influence the ambitions that you need globally in the future in the field of education. The representative concluded with two fairly clear questions. With regard to how Norway can take a leadership in the field of education, the brief answer is that we must first be a country of first-generation education and competence. Based on those experiences and that leadership, I think we're also being listened to more globally. In the area of health, we have taken such global leadership, and Norway's voice is being listened to, not only because we take the word in international forums in terms of health, vaccinations, etc., but because we also actively follow up on this in our own development policy. It is also quite right that there has been progress in education globally, even in some of the world's poorest countries. In just ten years, the number of children outside school is halved in South and West Asia. In Africa, more than 50 million children go to school. Developing countries spend more of their own budgets on education and are gradually becoming more independent of assistance. I also fully share Skei Grande's concern about whether the world achieves the UN's Millennium Goal for Education, even with the positive trends I refer to: With today's development, 72 million children will be out of school in 2015. Nearly half of these children live in – as the representative Skei Grande also mentioned – countries affected by conflict or disaster. Girls are in majority. Many belong to ethnic or religious minorities or are refugees, and a total of 40 p.m. have impaired function. Therefore, the measures we take in the field of education must also be very targeted. Let me mention the situation in Syria. Three years ago, Syria was an intermediate country. Today, gross domestic product is halved. Access to education for children and young people in Syria is very small and under great pressure. Of course, it is difficult to help these children and young people, but Norway should be in place here. Norway came, relatively speaking, with one of the greatest humanitarian contributions to Syria during the major donor country conference in Kuwait yesterday. Education and schooling both for refugees and for internally displaced persons shall be an important element of it. When children are not trained, an important human right is violated. But in addition, many of the children who attend school do not acquire basic skills. It can't go on like that either. I agree with the representative of Skei Grande in an inter-pelling debate on education assistance here in the Chamber a year ago – a commitment to education is also part of a democratisation process. It was Skei Grande in on today as well. This is an important political dimension of our work, both in education and in all other assistance. There is a need for a power cap for education, which will also make progress towards other development goals. The UN has estimated that the poverty rate in low-income countries would have been reduced by 12 pst. if all children could have read. I agree that Norway should be able to handle a leadership sweater when it comes to education. As I said, it is a prerequisite that we also celebrate for our own door and lead in this work. In pure numbers we have a little bit to go on. In 2005, education aid amounted to 9.2 pst. – near 10 pst. – by the assistance. In 2012, this share had fallen below 6 pst. We have to do something about this. I am pleased that the Stortinget started this work in connection with the current year's budget. For 2014, we've posted 1.8 billion. kr for education, against SEK 1,6 billion. kr in 2013. This is an increase of 15 pst. for the current year. We will continue to prioritise this area high in the coming years, in line with the Government Platform and in line with the Declaration of Cooperation concluded between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government Parties. The government has, as I said, started this important work. We will now go to work concretely to look at: What are the best examples of this type of training effort worldwide? I want to draw out some areas that are quite obvious already. It concerns access to education, including those who are now outside — marginalised and excluded, disabled children and those affected by humanitarian crises. If we catch them, we catch them all. The focus on education is particularly important for children affected by war, conflict or natural disasters. Jenter’s education — that was also in the middle of the interpellant — is and will be our most profitable investment. It increases the ability of girls and women to participate in work and social development. Education also means that more women and children survive birth, get better health and can contribute to growth. Then we have to make sure that school contributes to real learning. To achieve this, we need to increase the number of motivated and qualified teachers. 250 million children in the world can neither read nor write when they start in fourth grade. It's unacceptable. At the same time, we must be innovative. New information and communication technologies can contribute to results in terms of both quality and access to education. Mobile telephony and the Internet are already revolutionising both business and private life in many developing countries. With the opportunities now available for access to the very best teaching forces through digital education, we are facing a revolution. Norway has to be innovative in providing this type of access. More than 70 million young people do not go to school and need training, from basic reading and writing training to practical work, secondary and academic training. Vocational training is also central. On the basis of our own assistance, the government will step up its international commitment to education, as promised in the Government Declaration. This afternoon I'm going to talk to Gordon Brown, who is the Secretary-General's special representative for education. To Gordon Brown, I have said that we are willing to support both his and the Secretary-General's work, but we are also willing to take a lead in education in the future. We have to put all the energy into getting as far as possible towards Millennium Goal 2, on education for all. The Prime Minister is personally involved as the head of the UN's drivers' panel for the Millennium Goals. At the same time, we should think wisely towards the new development goals. There's a very important problem here. The new development objectives are to be adopted at the UN Main Assembly in the autumn of 2015. There, I believe that Norway should be an active driver in order to have ambitious and measurable ambitions in the field of education. The High Level Panel has already put education high on the priority list, but, as I said, we must ensure that education retains the place it deserves in the work on sustainable development. We will increase our commitment and cooperation with the Global Partnership for Education. We shall also take the lead in the work on the protection of education and training in conflict zones. In order to deliver good results, developing countries must continue to strengthen their own education systems — school buildings, curricula, textbooks, methods and statistics. Norway shall be an important partner in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e964	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a gruesome answer – I think he has a sincere commitment. I am pleased that the budget is moving in the right direction. I was also going to follow up especially when it came to Syria. So I'm glad of what the Foreign Minister said about this too. Suffering if the distress is terrible and the conditions for very many of these refugees are something that we all think a lot about, I think, it is important that we do not get lost generations of children in such conflicts, where we see that they receive neither school nor vaccines, which makes it difficult for the country to get back up the day it has to do it – for that day will come. I would like to stress the two points I finally had – which I hope the Foreign Minister had not prepared for, but on which he will have the opportunity to say something about now – about the other objectives we have in the aid policy. The groups that are really outside of education are from countries that aren't easy to support because of corruption, poor governance and many of the other things, which make us maybe withdraw and disappear. My question – point 1 – to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: What should we do to reach the children who have been given political leadership it is not easy to cooperate with on aid projects? The second is that when the OECD says that we need clear results, a very targeted management of the assistance results in those kids who may not learn so easily, or are marginalised, like, for example. Disabled children are pushed out of these structures because you can't measure the results as efficiently and as well, crown for crown, as you can for other children? Nor is it always so easy to measure the impact of education, whether everyone agrees that it is strong for the development of a country. So I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about the OECD objectives of results and when the objectives conflict with other objectives we have set ourselves in terms of assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e977	I just want to make it clear first that with Syria, reaching children and young people will be very central in the future. I agree with the representative, who says that in the situation that has now arisen, which is one of the worst humanitarian situations after the Second World War, perhaps the worst in this century so far, children and young people are some of those who are hit hardest. Many of them are also very traumatized. All possible non-acceptable techniques are used, including: starvation, the lack of access to school and education for children, and this also creates huge psychosocial challenges. If you manage to give a school offer, maybe just an hour or two a day, it may be what helps these children actually get out of the terrible process without getting wounds that it is not possible to cure. That's why we put great emphasis on this with the psychosocial, play, learning and follow-up of the children who are now in refugee camps, outside Syria, and where we have the opportunity to get there. It is not possible to achieve the education-related objectives without helping children in so-called vulnerable countries and in areas of war and conflict. One important reason why the Millennium Goals are not fully met is that there are some areas in the world where access to them is difficult. I therefore believe that there should be a targeted effort from Norway in these areas where we are actually doing a lot of assistance, for example. Afghanistan, where we've put off over 700 million. kr current year – take Somalia, where Norway is also in, taking South Sudan, which is unfortunately facing civil war-like conditions. In these areas, too, it is essential to try to create an offer for the children. It's going to be an important element of the bet that the government puts up with. But it's not straightforward, of course, and it requires more resources. Back to the representative's point of measurement: in my speech, I underlined that in reaching people with disabilities, reaching children in war and conflict areas, Norway has the opportunity to act as a leader. Of course, we're going to make sure that if you do that, the way to measure this is not to be able to bet on these. Then there must be other measurement parameters for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e986	I would first like to pay tribute to Trine Skei Grande for addressing this issue, which is very important from a development perspective. It is also important, I think, that the government signals that they will take a global leadership role to achieve the goal of education for all. It is also a continuation of the work of former governments. For example, the Soria Moria II Declaration states: that the red-green government will ‘lead to international efforts to enforce the rights of all children to education’. In the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee for St.meld. 13 for 2008-2009, a very broad majority were in favour of prioritising education, and that Norwegian aid for education, among others. should focus on basic education, priority for girls, focus on education in vulnerable countries – fragile states, as we just heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs emphasise – and in war and conflict areas are increasingly channelled through multilateral channels when Norway does not have specific competence, i.e. the United Nations system. In March 2012, the government decided to lead Norway in order to fulfil the rights of children to education by increasing access to basic education in conflict and disaster areas. I very much appreciate the fact that the Foreign Minister will now take a global political leadership role in the field. Worldwide, nine out of ten children go to high school today, but who is the last ten percent? They make up a total of 57 million children, approx. half of them are children in crisis and conflict areas. One third are disabled children, according to UNESCO and UNICEF. There's also a group we're going to think about. I want to refer to an interpellation that former representative Laila Gustavsen had in the previous period about that. In addition: 25 pst. leaving school before 4th grade. It's 34 million children. This could be a lot of numbers, but it's big and important numbers. The majority of these are girls. Here, I think we need to have an overall approach to our development policy, precisely because factors and conditions outside the school contribute greatly to whether girls receive education. Parents take girls out of school in many places for them to work at home, and we've probably all seen TV reports about 11-12 year old girls who spend the day looking after little siblings, pick them up for cooking and working in the house. This happens while Mom is at work to make money. Then we have – as the interpellant said – countries where it is directly dangerous for girls to go to school. Afghanistan is one of these countries. The Global Fund for Education cooperates with UNICEF to assist local authorities in training teachers. Teachers are essential to ensure quality in education, and female teachers are important as role models for girls, also because they understand gender-sensitive issues. Among the factors in school life that lead to girls falling out are sanitary conditions, a lack of ties and separate toilets. This is why so-called ‘child-friendly’ schools are now developing, among other things. are separate toilets for girls and boys, and there is a particular problem with gender issues. Among other things, the children can bring clean water home, which is important because the girls often have to get water for the family. Otherwise, it's a cross of thought that half of the children who don't go to school still live in sub-Saharan Africa, and that poverty, sex and residence determine whether children are educated. This means that we need to look at basic education in a broader development perspective. At the NHO Annual Conference, we were told how important it is for children to have early access to knowledge. The fight against poverty, the fight for mustering – all this is happening when we are going to raise the level of knowledge globally. It is good that Norway will take a leading role here. We already have a leadership role in health when it comes to molesting and fighting child mortality. It's related, and to emphasize it, as the interpellant: Every year in school, infant mortality decreases because it takes longer before the girls get pregnant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1003	That's, as I see it, a positive impatience in what the interpellant is showing in its interpellation today, and I'm sharing it. This is an important debate, an important focus, an important task – a leadership trough and a leadership role which, fortunately, our foreign minister and Prime Minister insist that they will act. The size shows through this interpellation its commitment and its support, yes impatience in this matter. The goal is a world of opportunities for everyone. Strengthening the right to education brings tangible results for society as a whole – a world with opportunities for all. Education is a key to achieving other important objectives: health, equality, life expectancy, as well as human rights, democracy and poverty reduction. When young people receive education, they gradually become able to contribute to building their own local knowledge societies, where they can help challenge authoritarian systems, work for human rights and democracy. The period of the Millennium Development Goals expires in 2015. We have a big task when we discuss the agenda for what's going to happen after this, not least in the field of education. That debate is something Stortinget would like to take part in. Unfortunately, the proportion of our aid going to education fell below the red-green ones. It is therefore necessary and gratifying that this government puts this so high on the agenda. There was an error in the budget for 2007, when the government of Stoltenberg took training out of the list of priority areas of development policy, or as Erik Solheim said in an interpellation in February 2008: ‘Education is not excluded from the Government’s development effort, but we have selected a few areas where we have escalated the financial amounts.’ In other words, not education. It seems that the current government aims at Norway taking international leadership in the fight to strengthen education for all, for example: in strengthening funds for UNICEF and for the Global Partnership for Education. With this draft budget, this government has clearly shown the direction we will follow in terms of girls and education. We have increased Norway's contribution to GPE by 20 pst. That's a clear message. These were the first steps to follow up the Sundvolden Declaration, which says that the government should give priority to education and take a global leadership role in the work of education for all, not least for girls. That's what I call performance orientation in aid, and education, as everyone knows, is also measurable. It is important that this work is followed up by a comprehensive strategy. It is also important to have perspectives on the obstacles that make this possible, for example. Girls don’t finish school — we’ve heard of some of them. It should also be focused on the fact that disabled people have an equivalent right to education. Worldwide, there are now 97 girls per 100 boys in primary school. It means that it's not long before that part of the Millennium Goals are achieved, but there's no need to take a break. It's actually 10 pst. of the world’s children who do not have a school offer, reports UNICEF. It's a small percentage maybe, but it's a high, real number. There is also reason to see this in connection with the conflict areas of the world and our humanitarian aid, for 50 pst. of the children who do not attend school in the world today live in conflict areas. You can only wonder what these kids are going to be in adult life, as community citizens in their country, when many of them have large parts of their experience baggage filled with violence and war acts and maybe just that. Another dimension, which is also close to the Right's heart, is the quality of school both at home, of course, and also at world level. Unfortunately, today there are more children who go to school and do not learn enough than there are children who do not go to school. 250 million children today can neither read nor write when they start in fourth grade. There is overwhelming evidence that girls’ education and health are the main individual factors in achieving other development goals. It has positive ring-effects and spirals — girls with education have children later in life, it helps to dampen population growth, and it is also more likely that mothers with schooling are allowed to go to school. I am very concerned that the education of girls is essential for women's participation in politics and social life. Women are 50 pst. by the population of the world, and in many places they bear more than that share of the burden in their community. As rapporteur, I have been working with children and the local government of young people for more than ten years. We see the importance of training our young people in their democratic understanding and abilities. We see the possibility of early learning and practice in just this – we, who have also placed all our children well in a good school. How much more important it is then that we take all children in, take a leading role in education for everyone in the world, and are drivers of democratic training when children learn about their duties and opportunities in a democratic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1038	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing a matter for which we share a common strong commitment. I think it is a symbolic start to the 2014 debate on development policy, that it is precisely education in development policy that is being promised. I think it bears witness to a new course. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs had his speech, I thought back at Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who promised education as a job no. one. I felt it was the same foreign minister did today, and we are incredibly grateful for that. As many have been involved, including the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself, we know that education was deleted from the list of bet areas for the red-green government. He mentioned that the share of education in the aid budget fell, as did real value in real dollars. The Christian People's Party has been working on lifting it up again in the last few years. Last spring we presented a proposal for a representative with ten concrete proposals, in which we experienced great verbal support, but where we did not feel that it had been followed up and were not voted for by the red-greens either. So I just want to tip the Foreign Minister off that there are good suggestions here from last year. The four parties that were in a minority in the previous period supported the proposals of the Christian People's Party to increase the share of the training aid framework. There should be increased efforts for more people to be safe at school, and there should also be increased focus on learning outcomes. Now these four parties have a majority. We have a cooperation agreement, we have a government statement that clearly shows the way, and I would also like to say that with the insertion of the Workers' Party in place and hopefully also from other red-greens – we saw the signal in the last budget they presented – the government and the foreign minister will have broad parliamentary support in the Grand Duchy to raise education as he will now. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his offensive speech. One should understand that it will take time to develop such a strategy as we are discussing today, but at least it is good to know that both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and even the Prime Minister are raising it up. I will, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, give him full backing on post-15 goals with achieving ambitious and also measurable goals in terms of education. I think that's important. And good luck with the meeting this afternoon! Then I think it is also important that we challenge further the dialogues we have with the poorest countries. There are rising leaders in many countries, and it is important that they also understand and see the need to prioritise education. It just has to continue, because it is in dialogue with the poorest countries that you have to work. Schooling is not just a human right, but it is, as many have been in it, the key to development. Several talk about the importance of girls' education, disabled people's inclusion, and we also know that conflict areas need priority, because they are often the losers. The thousands of years have been some of the things that have led to more people having access. There are many who have said that then a lower ambition can be because there are so many who have now received education or schooling. I'm clearly saying no to that. There are too many, more have also shown the figures, which still do not get school. Besides, and I think that's extremely important, we can't just talk about quantity, but we have to talk about quality in education. It also means that one must not only be concerned with who is enrolled in school, or to the extent that who is able to complete, but we must be concerned about what it is completed with and what learning outcomes they are left with after school. That is why I also want to raise the quality of the entire race. I also believe that higher education, and perhaps especially vocational education, is a key. One knows that, for example: in sub-Saharan Africa, a significant number of young men are unemployed. It is also an important key: further education and then jobs. The Foreign Minister raised the Syria question, and I am pleased about that. He raised the South Sudan question, so am I. South Sudan is a good example that you have young leaders who have their skills from the battlefield, not from universities. The key to democratic processes is education, and education will deliver good results. Fortunately, there is another Christian People's Party representative who has also signed up on the list of speakers, so there are several points coming from the Christian People's Party – the time is running fast. But I just want to end by saying that we are extremely satisfied with the negotiations and the result in the budget, that we have prioritised 1 pst. Because I believe that the amount allows for a heavier bet to implement several of the ambitious goals we agree on. Then it's like this in all the policy fields that the amount is actually decisive. We're going to be busy with quality and power all the time, but the amount will help make it possible to bet heavier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1066	Just before my own schooling started, the schoolway to Hector Peterson ended with a sharp shot in Soweto, South Africa. The image of the 13-year-old Hector with gunshot injuries – in the arms of another clandestine, with the sister running in despair alongside – went around the world and was a first symbol of the brutality of the apartheid regime in South Africa during the so-called Soweto uprising on June 16, 1976. So it was the schoolboy’s protest that Africans — what they looked at as the language of the oppressors — were to be used as teaching languages in the school, which helped to trigger a rebellion among children, including children. in Soweto. Many want to know that it was one of the most brutal heirs left after the regime. More than 10,000 students protested, and I start out like that because it's an example of the fact that, in addition to the many other good educations, as the representative Skei Grande presented very well in his interpellation, which is an important initiative, education is also a danger to government powers that do not want their own people to have the knowledge and insight to stand up to them. It has a set of examples. That is why education is also very important from a democratic perspective, as well as the many other broad aspects of development underpinned here. That's why I have to start by saying that education was one of the most important initiatives in the red-green development policy for many years. The fact is that Norway is one of the world’s leading providers of education assistance internationally. We have a strong role to play in that. So I notice that the party that's been busy for a long time now saying that there's not how many dollars we allow, but how we use them, which is most important, is now very concerned about how many dollars we allow for exactly education aid in the last few years. And the fact is that the level was stable at about 1.6 billion. kr – something up and down different years over the period. But that means, of course, that part of the total aid went down. It could be a critical one. I thought it was right that the critics might also be able to say something about what other of the massive stakes they thought were wrong and should have gone to education. Was it health, was it environment and energy, or was it equality that should have our priority lower for education? When it goes further, I will now say that there is a broad consensus on this, as several have said, and I agree with much of that both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister have said. I think I'll put four points on how we should think. Point 1: I thought the Foreign Minister said it very well himself, that being a global leader must start doing the job at home. I hope otherwise he will take it with him to climate and environmental policy discussions in the government. The same applies there, but it also applies before education. This means that a sharp increase in attention and in the use of money when it comes to education would make sense. In its last budget, the red-green government presented proposals for a three-billion increase plan. kr from the level we have today. We've seen a start on that. I hope the new government will follow it up. It'll be a natural part of being a global leader. Point 2: I think as the interpellant that the ground floor is very important, but I want to add one thing that I have experienced in many countries, and that is that the profession is very strongly down-prioritized. They are scarce, but they are urgently needed in several countries. The basic profession of plumbers, electricians, carpenters, carpenters etc., which builds the country physically, has an enormously low competence. And it often has very low status in the elites of the countries. It can also be an important niche and part of it. Point 3: Several have said that quality is important. Quality in school means a lot to teachers. That's why the bets are, like Education for All. have enormous importance on teachers and teacher training. And remember, a lot of those who go to school, actually don't learn anything that makes them break the poverty patterns that families and communities are in. And then one has got very little left for it. Finally, the difficult discussion is about how many areas a country can be a global leader. I want to say that I am looking forward to being, to an even greater extent than today, a global leader before education, but I am not looking forward to being a less global leader before issues like the environment, climate and energy, which so badly need it, or when it concerns equality and health, where we have invested many years in being it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1085	In recent times, the debate has been about equality and glass ceilings here in our small, protected world. Is the glass roof gone, whitewashed, or is it at its best? This is an important debate, but in the context of the concrete cover that is above women's global education potential, the debate that is going on by the Left here today is even more important. The government platform says that the government should give priority to girls' right to education in poor countries and take a global lead in the work of training all children. So the goal is a world of opportunities for everyone. We know that education is the way out of poverty, and it's still that more girls than boys are being kept out of school. The value of women is significantly lower than that of men in many countries. That means we owe them help, and we need to help more. We must continue to work for fundamental human rights, for women's right to education and for women's right to be equal to men. For kids who go to school, girls who go to school, there's less risk of being exploited in the sex industry. They are easier to obtain income, and they become less coercive and pregnant at an early age. We can't change every culture in every country we work with, but we can make our little contribution, so that all children get a better starting point for their own lives. Therefore, we should focus more on education in our development aid. Over a billion people still live in extreme poverty, and more than 50 million children do not receive education. Erna Solberg heads the United Nations Secretary-General's propelling group for the Millennium Goals and plays a central role in the fight for social and economic development. I am proud of our female Prime Minister, our male Council of State and a unified government that is committed to making the world better for the children and the generations to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1105	This debate addresses the need for education to be given a higher priority in Norwegian development policy. After two major periods in which schooling efforts received an ever smaller proportion of the development budget, it is now clear for a change in course. It is an important signal, and I thank the Foreign Minister who confirms that Norway will take an international lead in the work of education, not least for girls in poor countries. I also want pink Trine Skei Grande to have seen this on the agenda quickly in the new big year. I myself have worked for many years in developing countries. There I've seen how important education is to get a better life situation and a better society where everyone is equally valuable. Education is important, education is important for everyone, and education for girls is twice as important. There is broad agreement on this in the Norwegian environment competent for development. Twelve Norwegian organisations form the national network of The Global Campaign for Education. They have in a joint letter given their recordings to a Norwegian leader role in this area, and that's good. For this reason, I am pleased that the Foreign Minister in his speech highlighted the thematic priorities of the Global Education Campaign. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will support these five thematic priorities that the organisations promise: Yes, education is a fundamental human right. Yes, girls' right to education needs to be given special priority. Yes, we need to focus more on qualified teachers and more female teachers in order to achieve greater learning outcomes for students. Yes, access to children's schooling must be prioritised in Norwegian aid for areas of disaster, war and conflict. And yes, we need to do much more to strengthen the whole educational cycle. When we are about to develop a Norwegian political leadership in the fight for education for all, we must think strategically. We need to assess how Norwegian efforts can have the greatest impact in achieving these goals set in the international work on education for all. By investing heavily financially, we also gain greater weight in international discussions and greater Norwegian influence. We must play on the whole spectrum of actors in the work of education, both the multilateral organisations, our governmental bodies and the resources of the diverse civil society. And not least, a Norwegian leadership obliges us to be an active driver of expanded education goals in the new Millennium Goals for the years after 2015. In my experience in developing countries, I would particularly like to highlight the importance of education for girls. Through the efforts to reach its Millennium Goal, girls have also been given greater access to school, but much remains. Education is important for several reasons. It is important, of course, that knowledge gives them better grounds for knowing their rights, including political participation, and for improving the qualifications for strengthening women’s chances of actually getting paid work. Education for girls in many societies will be a key to raising not only women, but the whole family, yes, the whole village. Knowledge enables women to improve the nutritional situation and health status of the family. With knowledge, mothers can help their children to benefit from their schooling. And for several years in school, young girls tend to protect themselves from the pressure of coercion and too early marriages – to mention some of the positive effects. Therefore, I and the Christian People's Party will actively support the vision of a billion bet for girls' education in this big time period. It will show that we take Norwegian leadership seriously and follow up good words in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1126	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question that I believe has not had a sufficient focus in recent years. Training assistance is a field that has fallen under the shadow of other kinds of assistance. As the representative Graham said, it's a world with opportunities for all of this. That is a question that the Right-Fremskritsparte government has prioritised from day one in government. Good growth and schooling make people ready to contribute to society, while at the same time being the main foundation for economic development. Investing in education is therefore the most profitable investment we as a nation can make to help countries get out of permanent poverty. 2015 marks the year in which the UN Millennium Development Goals are to be met. Objective No two are that all children, both boys and girls, are to be guaranteed primary education within that time. However, even if we are on the right track, we need an international political boost if we are to achieve a full goal, because there are still more than 50 million children who do not have access to education. Marginalised groups such as disabled people and girls do not have equal rights in many countries. The quality of education is not where we want it to be either. Natural disasters, war and conflict further complicate the objective. Schools can also be a target of terror. Syria is an example of a country where children lose much of their growth because of the civil war that is going on, and where even after peace comes, it will take a long time to get back to where one was. It is therefore very gratifying that the Foreign Minister took such an active role in the donor meeting in Kuwait this week, where Norway is now among the largest contributors to Syria. There has been a tradition in Norwegian aid policy to focus on education. Education was a main area of the development policy of the Bondevik II government. The goal of doubling the efforts made in education from 2002 to 2005 was achieved. Unfortunately, education in the same way was not part of the aid effort of the red-green government. From 2005 to 2013, we experienced that education assistance was down-prioritized — so to speak frozen — at the 2005 level. So while other good purposes were strengthened, the proportion decreased significantly. It wants the Right Party government with the support of the Left Party and the Christian People's Party to do something about it and has already taken action. We already saw in the supplementary proposal for the 2014 budget that education was given a boost, with support for both UNICEF and Global Partnership for Education. It's a change in course that we've been waiting for for for eight years. I want to pay tribute to the Minister for Foreign Affairs who puts education at the top of his list of priorities in the government's development policy. The global leadership role of the government is in line with the UN education target for all. Prioritisation of girls' right to education in poor countries is in line with the government's platform of promoting democracy, the rule of law and human rights in development policy. Children's, and especially girls', education is of great importance not only to their own situation, to women's health, but also to the economy of the societies in which they live. The increase in the 2014 aid budget shows in clear text the government's ambitions of education for all. They are involved in sending positive signal effects to other donors and to international organisations working in the field of assistance and development. Much is about amounts, but so much is also about an adjustment and an involvement that can follow the increased appropriations. I therefore find it very reassuring that we have a Prime Minister and a foreign minister who have engaged so much internationally and raised Norway's educational profile. Prime Minister Solberg has focused on this issue with other Heads of Government both bilaterally and through the UN's group of drivers for the Millennium Goals, where she is now appointed as one of the leaders. The involvement of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister in this area contributes in an excellent way to bringing together other partners both at home and internationally. At the same time, it is important that we who work on the issues follow up education issues in our dialogue with colleagues in other countries, and in the same way, the office and our embassies in developing countries can also be important in the dialogue with those countries where they represent Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1143	Those who can read have a secret. My friend can't read, it's sad, said a little boy who participated in one of the school projects of the Power Foundation. In many countries, children and young people have few opportunities to learn to read and write and obtain education. The worst thing is for your girls. Without the possibility of education or participation in a profession, it is not easy to become a boss in your own life. The path to early marriage and forced prostitution, abuse, exploitation and permanent poverty is short. Today we know that 74 million women between the ages of 15 and 24 are illiterate, and only 43 pst. Of the girls of high school age are in school. We also know that when girls receive education, they will be able to contribute to building the community, they can help challenge authoritarian systems, to work for human rights and democracy. We also know that when girls receive education, it has a major impact on the health situation and child mortality. When we strengthen girls' right to education, it gives concrete results for the whole community. Since 164 countries committed themselves to the Education for All targets in 2000, the number of children in school has increased by 47 million. Still, 57 million are without access to school. We also see challenges related to keeping children in school. 60 million of the kids in the world who get access to school fall out of school before they reach 4th grade. Not least, we see that many tens of millions complete school without acquiring basic skills. This clearly demonstrates the need to invest in quality, which several of the representatives have now discussed today, and to ensure that there are enough qualified teachers. World society has a major challenge. In the right, there was full excitement at our country meeting last May that we need a new strategy to meet the challenges. We need increased funding for education aid. It is regrettable that aid for education has not been given priority by the red-greens. In addition, it was agreed that Norway should take the lead in the discussion on what should be the agenda for the new Millennium Goals after 2015. That is why it is of great importance that our Prime Minister should be the co-chairman of Secretary General Ban Ki-moon's propelling group for the Millennium Goals. Equally important are the clear signals now given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I am well pleased with this government's willingness to invest in education as an instrument of aid and development. It is reflected in both the government platform and the budget. The total budget for education in 2014 is now 1.84 billion. kr. It's an increase in education of 240 million. kr, and it shows a willingness to convert. In 2014, there is a marked increase in this area for the first time in eight years and a clear profile to strengthen girls’ rights to education. It's time to move on in this work. The fourteen-year-old girl Champa Akhter and her friend Monira Kharim, who both completed the educational project Shonglap in Bangladesh last year, said clearly: "Without Shonglap we would have been completely lost." The children of the world and the girls of the world deserve better. To the representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, I would like to say that in this work we need both the crowns and good devices on the projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1172	It is a well-known tränderian slogan that says that ‘the one that comes to sea’ – nor in this bet. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been aware that if you want to have the goal of strengthening education as part of the investment in aid, you must first do what the previous government did not do, namely to put education as part of the objectives of aid policy, but you must also take a leading role internationally in raising education in the international arena, where Norway must have a leading role. Because we have to lead, we're going to be able to get at such a bet. In my work on this interpellation, I have had a lot of help from the Norwegian NGOs, especially the Redd Barna, which I would like to thank, which I think is ready to be on the side of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to get to the goal of such a kind of bet. So I've been doing politics for so long that I'm rarely provoked by people agreeing with me. That is why I am very pleased that there has been such broad consensus in Stortinget today, that so many have chosen to participate, and that so many say that this is one of the most important investments in the aid sector. It's very good that we in the Storting have such broad agreement on this bet, it's very good that it now comes into the goal, and then we might be able to get into the goal. So with an NGO world that is both competent and hungry, and with an overall boom, the Foreign Minister should be able to achieve the goal of lifting this. I would like to thank you for such a wide participation in the Storting in such an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1188	I think this has been a very good and uplifting round. I think that the Storting has also established some important principles relating to investing in education in the future in a development context, both in general and in particular for girls. The representative Skei Grande has taken an important initiative that I very much appreciate. The representative also correctly stated that if we are to invest in education in the future, it must also be clarified as one of the thematic initiatives that Norway actually prioritises. If you take out a bet, that means you're using less power, both in the department and in Norad, on this. That's how you signal a political commitment. Training is now taking place as a field of activity, and the Stortinget has already contributed to an increase of 15 pst in the current year’s government budget. – also in the case of resources. But then you can't just stare at numbers, because there's a lot of things about devices and you use these resources in a sensible way. I don't think there's going to be any development without education. This is the way to give the young generation an opportunity to create a life, income and work. Not least, this is becoming a far greater challenge in the future due to global demography. In many developing countries, more than 50 pst. of the population under 20 years of age. Globally, it's over 50 pst. of the population under 25 years of age. With all due respect: As far as I can see, there are few representatives of half of the global population – as old as possible – here in the hall. But at least it's a great sense of responsibility in this room, we want us to be able to make a real offer to those who grow up. If you don't have the opportunity to access education, in today's globalized world you have a very, very limited future. So if Norway now, by investing more in education in our development budget, also develops some programmes that can inspire other countries, and if we combine it with ambitious thousand-year targets after 2015 in education, where it is possible to measure progress related to education, and that developing countries themselves also take responsibility – they also have a broader tax base, so that they can have more resources to invest in education – we can get something to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1199	Case No. 6 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1215	As I said in my interview: Under the Stoltenberg II government, social dumping was put really on the political agenda. The first action plan came in 2006. The second came in 2008. The direct reason was what we saw of new labour immigration and increased labour input, as a result of EU enlargement. The purpose of the action plans was to prevent the exploitation of foreign workers in terms of lower wages and lower safety and health standards than is acceptable in the Norwegian labour market. This leads to an undermining of Norwegian wage and employment conditions and an unfair competitive situation for serious enterprises. The first two action plans focused first on the construction industry, coastal shipping and agriculture, then on the clean-up and hotel and restaurant industries. Public procurement has also been covered by many disclosures of rather questionable practices in both the State and the municipality. Evaluation of the measures showed that they have had a positive effect, but reality shows that there is only one thing that is absolutely certain: there is no point in resting on their laurels. That is why Action Plan No. 3 when presenting the revised national budget in 2013. It continued to build on the two previous action plans and followed up the Report. St. 29 for 2010–2011 on a joint responsibility for a good and decent working life. A key challenge is the fact that employment in Norway has become more internationalised. We have a relatively large influx of labour, and there are significant differences in wage and living costs between Norway and many other countries, both within the single European labour market and in comparison with countries outside Europe. In many cases, we experience a low level of organisation among employees, making social dumping an extra challenge. Where there is legislation against social dumping, there are also smart souls who know how to maneuver in such a way that the legislation can be circumvented. It is not necessarily illegalities, but nevertheless it must be allowed to ask, is this what we want? The new in Action Plan No. Three of these included: the identification of the need for own sectoral programmes for vulnerable industries. Shipping is one of them, aviation is another. Generalisation of collective agreements is difficult to obtain, partly because industries are regulated by international legislation, split between many countries, and partly because there are no collective agreements in many places at all. This interpellation is therefore particularly relevant in the aviation sector. The background is the considerable focus of its time on more negative aviation conditions, particularly in terms of the pay and working conditions of pilots, cabin crew and ground staff, but also in terms of taxation and social security charges. And we have a desire in the Workers' Party to get ahead of ourselves in finding out what greatness and government both can and will do to combat these to some extent unworthy conditions. We want Action Plan No. 3 against social dumping shall not disappear as a result of an election result. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the new government has said that it will follow up the work that the previous government started. I quote: ‘Although Norwegian working life is characterised mainly by neat and orderly conditions, some industries are characterised by social dumping and unacceptable pay and working conditions. This is unacceptable, both for the workers affected and for competing companies that comply with the law. The Government will therefore continue its efforts to combat social dumping.’ This is initially positive, but we are given some consideration when the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs continues to stress the need to evaluate the previous action plans first and then assess any new measures. The previous action plans have been evaluated and have had an impact. What we are now calling for is progress and implementation. There's a lot of evidence that it's urgent, especially for aviation. We remember all the shocking revelations last year about the agreements for cabin crew in Ryanair. They went on three-year contracts that could be cancelled at any time, with a notice period down to zero days. The movement of the place of work could take place at any time. The costs of it had to be borne by the employee. Sick pay was an unknown concept. All the absences, whatever the reason, gave rise to wages. Expenditure on ID cards and uniform was deducted from the salary. The same applies to disappearances, tuition fees, etc. If the draw was higher than the pay, the rest of it expired after 14 days. Then the fees and interest were added. Holidays could be cancelled at any time. Unused holidays could not be transferred – to mention something. The aviation industry is quite inconspicuous and is developing rapidly. Different types of framework conditions are laid down both nationally and internationally. In particular, low-cost companies shop around in different ways to achieve minimum taxes, minimum wage costs and the lowest possible employee rights. Bases are established in different countries. Employees are picked up in low-cost land and flown to bases elsewhere. There are confusions about which country’s legislation is to apply. Permanent employees are replaced by temporary agency employees and notional self-employed workers – or contractors whom we used to call it. As a Norwegian pilot, you can be employed by a Norwegian airline on one day, risking being a self-employed person in Ireland on the next. If we can't stop this development, this will just accelerate. New companies will pay attention, because this is tough competition. Then, of course, it is the problem that at the end of the day there is an individual good, namely cheap air travel, as many naturally demand. One thing is at least certain: it is not consumer power that answers these challenges. They must be solved politically, as far as we can. It is important that we get an overview as soon as possible of the political space we have — nationally, as well as internationally. The previous government put down a selection to determine this space for action. That work continues, as far as I can see, under the new government. I think that's positive. When this investigation is available, it must be acted upon. In particular, international aviation in the form of cross-border flights is arduous to deal with, even if the problem also exists and transmits to national routes. One example of this was when Norwegian wanted the previous government to amend the foreign regulations, so that employees from outside the EU who flew to Gardermoen could work on Norwegian domestic routes without requiring a work permit and residence permit in Norway before leaving. Fortunately, the last Minister of Labour, Anniken Huitfeldt, put his foot down for it. I hope that the current minister intends to follow her example. On the other hand, I find it worrying that last June the Air Safety Authority approved an application from Norwegian for a derogation from the nationality requirement of the Aviation Act to hire an Irish-registered aircraft. It was, according to a complaint from employees' organisations, something fundamentally new that such a derogation was granted to help relocate abroad for aircraft that could have been registered in Norway. The employees also failed to comply with their complaint, and the complaint was not dealt with until the end of the period of exemption, so you might wonder how real that right of appeal was. When the exemption expired, it was also extended. This means that during this period Norwegian can use Asian teams with Asian pay and working conditions on an aircraft operating within the tariff range of its own employees. This means that the Air Safety Authority has taken a decision here which, at least in its consequence, gives the opposite result to the State Council by saying no to changes in the foreign regulation. I also think that is a concern. At least questions should be asked about that type of practice. If we agree that we want to combat social dumping in aviation, we should at least make sure that the decisions that we ourselves control are drawn in the same direction. My question to the Council of State is whether he agrees that the situation of social dumping in aviation is of concern, and if so, what initiatives he will take – nationally and internationally – to ensure orderly wage and employment conditions and equivalent competitive conditions in this sector. The answer to that question is important, because it is ultimately about whether we are going to have a Norwegian aviation industry in the future, or about competent Norwegian workers – in the cabin, in the cockpit, on the ground – in reality is becoming a mere story, which would in that case be a major loss for Norwegian employment and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1250	Let me start by stating that for the government, the aviation industry is very important, both nationally and internationally. It binds our country together, and it strengthens the competitiveness of our business. In many places when I travel around, one points out that the roads are important for local reasons – also for the export industry in the case of transport – but have a non-airport nearby, a miss of many possible contracts goes into international competition. The industry also represents important jobs and enterprises in themselves. That is why we want to work to develop and further develop a robust air cluster that can have good competitiveness in the future as well. In the past, some parties have been very concerned that we have an aviation industry in Norway, because it also affects the environment. There was uncertainty among many in the industry. We see the environmental challenges that come with the aviation industry, but rather than trying to shut down or destroy it, it is better that we work with the industry to solve the environmental challenges and energy use challenges it represents. It is important both for airlines and for employees that there are good and orderly conditions and rules both for the industry and for the individual. It creates predictability and willingness to invest both for businesses and for those who want a career in the industry. At the same time, this is an international and mobile industry. That means there is great international competition. It affects the way governments have to think about when we're going to make rules and supervise, and the individual actor. I'm glad we have the opportunity today to discuss what the government is doing, and what initiatives we're taking, because we've actually done a lot after just three months in government. The issues are not new. The situation has evolved over a long time, but the rules have remained more or less unchanged. Many of the concerns that the interpellant raises are issues that actually arose under the previous government. The authorisation referred to by Norwegian was granted under the previous government. The complaint submitted by the employee organisations was submitted under the previous government and was therefore not dealt with within the four months after the complaint was lodged until the government resigned. After a month with a new government, the complaint was dealt with. That's why it's a little unreasonable to point to today's government when one actually is the cause of many of the issues that one here is trying to solve. But I'm very happy that you have an expectation of the new government's power of action, because that's what we're going to deliver on. Before I go into the approach we're doing, I want to use some words to describe the industry as it is today. Firstly, it is an industry that has very small profit margins, but large investments. Many companies actually have deficits, and even those companies that make money earn relatively little in crowns and ears, and not least in comparison to invested capital. This allows the industry to have some economic problems. Among other things, we do. seen with companies in which the State itself holds a holding. Secondly, there is an industry that is characterised by fierce competition. It has been a major opening for market regulation of aviation. So one has deregulated business and almost removed some rules in the 1990s. This means that you have had a very good and effective competition in the EEA area, with many new routes and a good offer to the travellers. Thirdly, the gradual liberalisation has led to globalisation which is also driven by technology development and prosperity development. The fact that you have better forms of communication, for example: The Internet makes it much easier for consumers to learn about the market and much easier for businesses to set up departmental offices and bases around, simply because it is faster to communicate with each other. The range and speed of the planes make the whole world becoming a single market. It also affects the competitive situation. Better communication systems and globalisation in general mean that a company that was previously established on few routes internationally can now establish itself more globally, either by having a number of bases within its own system, such as Norwegian has, or by including close alliances, such as SAS does, or by simply merging, as we see that KLM and Air France have done, in close cooperation with Delta. Thus, a really many actors do things the same way, but they have a little different corporate structures, and then it becomes a little wrong to point to one company as a villain, when many actors actually do the same, but organize differently when they do it. It is now technically and operationally possible to operate routes far from the original domestic market. One operator as said bases, and one can also dispose of personnel in a completely different way. That, of course, creates challenges – I fully agree with that. The more important it is that one ensures good supervision and that one ensures good rules and working environment for those who work there. If one does not take that task seriously, international actors who are among the unprofessional may end up registering the aircraft one place, employing people elsewhere, with working environment rules from a third place and the whole package, and if the supervisory authorities of the different countries do not cooperate and have clear relationships, a fall between all the chairs, to the pleasure of the person who likes to make money on it, but to the ‘disgusted’ of the person who works with it, and perhaps also of the air passengers. But in this, it is also important that we facilitate the presence of offensive airlines that challenge established structures, precisely because competition also gives the traveller a better offer. My starting point is that all operators operating within a single market should compete under the same conditions. Using the much-discussed Norwegian routes between Asia and Europe means that Norwegian as a Norwegian company should be able to have the same conditions as, for example, Norwegian. Thai Airways when they fly between Bangkok and Oslo. If one does not, one will facilitate that one company will, through the rules, simply out competition the other, because the conditions are different. What is important is that companies compete on price, service and time, i.e. experience for the customer, not that they compete because they have different framework conditions at the bottom. Then it's the politicians who define who wins, not the passengers. Then I would also like to point out that it is not easy to obtain safe information about the salary of the individual company. But it's important that someone works on it, precisely because it helps show a little bit of what the situation is. So to the initiatives that this government has taken. It is right that the previous government started work on a report on the Norwegian aviation position in a globalised time. We want to keep going. There are a lot of complicated questions that are being addressed. One is on the rise side there, and what I'm told is that it'll be finished in a month. Once it's finished, of course, the government will handle it and follow up the good advice that's there, and would like to discuss some other things, maybe also with the Storting if the Storing wants it. The report will contain a lot of information on the actual nature of the aviation industry today, and on the basis of the understanding of the problem and an analysis of the scope of action that Norway has, we will look at the possibilities for action. In connection with this, we have also taken an initiative where I, among other things, yesterday sent a letter to the EU Transport Commissioner, Siim Kallas. In that letter, I am primarily concerned with the competitive conditions between the airlines that could be perceived as being unfair, because different regulation in different countries, or just different practices of regulation between different countries, makes it difficult for both the aircraft operators and the authorities to actually understand what is happening and what is the rational application of the rules. It allows you to experience having discussions that don't really become real based on the way the world actually is, but because one interprets the law differently, one approaches the specific situation as well. For this reason, my letter to the EU Transport Commissioner is a way of demonstrating that we want to achieve better cross-border cooperation and harmonised legislation, get a common understanding of how to practice it, ensure that the supervisory authorities work better together to avoid airlines falling between more chairs and exploiting it, but also to avoid the suspicion that airlines that think new and operate seriously are immediately challenging established airlines that have not been as good as to change. I mention in this letter the desire that one should get an overview of how each airline bases the laws of the different countries, and how they apply it when they are registered in more than one country. I am discussing the fact that some EEA countries have more liberal foreign legislation than others, what issues they create, and how the EU system should deal with it. We also need to discuss this with the United States, because there are flights that also affect the United States. Then I suggest that in future negotiations on aviation agreements, we work towards a good balance, better than today, between the possibility of developing aviation clusters in Norway and the possibility of allowing new business models that challenge the solutions that have been most common up to now. The aim here must be to ensure both good conditions for those working there and the ability of air carriers to develop and safeguard passengers' rights and not least their safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1284	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the answer. A few comments within the framework of the 3 minutes I have: the Council of State indicated that the problem arose under the previous government. Yes, no one has hidden it – that is why the focus on aviation was in Action Plan No. 3rd@item: inlistbox When it comes to the problem I raised that politicians can mean something, and then something else happens in administrative departments, I did not leave the responsibility of the sitting government. I raised it more as an example of a system failure that can occur – I am absolutely sure – no matter who is in government. We need systems that make the decisions we make, and the political orders we make, actually be implemented, and the decisions are moving in the right direction. I also said in the first post that it is positive that the Council of State is continuing the work on the report, and I welcome the fact that the Stortinget is also involved in the debate on the concrete proposals that come into the report. So I think that's also positive. I want to add that it is also important that the conclusions are thoroughly discussed with the social partners, both representatives of the airlines and representatives of the employees. It is also positive that the matter is now being dealt with at an international level, for there we need to be able to find solutions. The letter has in some ways been advertised several times. The first time was November 1st last year. When the letter was sent yesterday, it is probably related to the fact that these are complicated questions, but I also allow myself to think that this interpellation was perhaps my small contribution to that letter being stamped and sent by the farm. I interpret the Council of State as sharing the view that the developments we see are not desirable, and that we share some of the perceptions of what is the problem here, namely a fragmented industry – regulations and framework conditions international in some areas, but perhaps not in the most important, what is about the conditions for employees. The control problem when a flight is no longer a single product, but a combination of many operations distributed between different companies and different locations is another. The Council of State was so far aware that some companies are leading and creative in cutting costs. That wages and employment are what becomes the balancing item is nothing new, and it's not very creative. It is in a way what is at stake for the whole development of the history of the labour movement in Norway that capital needs to be encroached on by a law to ensure the conditions of those who work in different industries, as well as aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1299	I think we can get a lot in common in this area, because I think we're all concerned with having good and orderly working conditions, that there should be transparency about this, and that one should stimulate good competition at the same time as one should have security for those who work in the different companies. It is therefore important for the authorities to do what they do, and the more challenging it is for the authorities to regulate, it is highly mobile and it has a long reach. One thing is to regulate a store that is localized over time, another thing is something that can be registered in many countries, as a means of transport. We also know that many countries want to develop their own aviation and use the tax system and others to stimulate investment. Here it is important that the Storting finds sensible regulations that make it impossible for Norwegian companies to compete in the big world for good at the same time. When we have a high level of costs, we know that – anything else like it – will impede Norwegian companies' competition. But because everything is not equal, precisely because you also have a productivity page, not just pay levels – it’s important to take it along – we’ve seen Norwegian airlines like to be more innovative than others and see how they can exploit the material. I do not agree – if it was the representative’s message – that when everything in this world is as it is, it’s the pay you can compete at. No, the companies that are able to make money, or the companies that compete as low-cost companies, compete because they like to cut down on the service. You know that if you fly with low-cost airlines, you don't get the same service on board as when you travel with the most expensive airlines. That means you'll get less flexibility when it comes to rebooking. There can save money by having smaller administrative systems in the back. Djerne must be paid if you have luggage. One may or may not equal the type of service level, but there is also one way in which one can save costs and thus win the competition for the customers who are interested in the price. What you're also looking at is how fast you can turn a plane around at the airport. It's very important, because this is tied capital. The more passengers you get to pay the ticket, the better. And the more trips you get on the plane, the more passengers you have the opportunity to take. We see that the companies that are able to create small administrative units with the quick reversal of the asset are winning. Then you can take political action, yes. I just remind you that even though the underlying agencies sometimes take decisions that political management does not agree with, the previous government had four months to reform this after they had received a complaint. It is not the representative of Christoffersen who is responsible, but the previous Council of State. Then one has to ask the person why she did not follow up this issue in a better way then.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1312	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, Lise Christoffersen, for raising this matter to the pulpit of the Grand Duchy. Social dumping is a growing problem, and we also see it in aviation. We have had stories in the past – and have stories – with airlines outside Norway that have been operating and operating with this, but now it seems that we have also got a Norwegian-owned company that is at full speed into this. The company itself believes they are doing this in a legal way, but then there must be significant legislative weaknesses, and we need to change that. If we want Norwegian aviation in future with Norwegian owners and Norwegian conditions, something has to be done before it is too late. We need to sit in the driver's seat and find good solutions with the EU. It is therefore gratifying that the Solvik-Olsen Council of State already announced on 1 November that he would shortly send letters to the European Commission and take this up in order to get tighter and more common rules on this. Only yesterday the letter went to the EU, it went two and a half months. It may not happen that this came close to the interpellant, so the interpellant has been given as a result of the interpellation that one was allowed to continue in this matter. However, the minister should have boasted that he has taken care of the matter. We also see that this is not just a problem for Norway. The most obvious thing in the last few days and weeks has probably come from the United States, where we see that they have reacted to the way Norwegian was going to establish base in the United States. The United States does not accept this, nor should Norway and Europe accept it. When the same Norwegian company, Norway, applied for the renewal of the licence, there was a meeting between the EU and the United States last week, where the president of the US LO, AFL-CIO, was quite clear about what he thought about it. He was very clear that Norwegian should be denied the license: ‘They shop for cheap labour. We believe Norwegian's business model should be rejected." It looks as if the model is looking to shop around the world for the cheapest possible workforce to force the workers, in this case in the United States, but we also see that it is happening in Europe and Norway. In the same case, Edward Wytkind, President of the Transport and Trade Union, says that he believes that: ‘the Norwegian carrier will undermine employees both in the United States and Norway by avoiding trade unions. – Pilots and other crew will be based in Thailand. Singapore labour laws shall apply to them and shall then be leased with individual contracts.’;» So the powerful trade union leader in the United States believes that Norwegian is getting employees who cost about half the U.S. employee doing, and refers to the average wage, which is far below that of both Norway and the United States. We also see that Norwegian trade unions have responded to this practice. Some people go out and say that there's social dumping, and some people say that it looks like social dumping. One way to improve this situation is to require pilots and cabin crews to be employed in the companies for which they fly, thus clarifying who to tax and pay their benefits, and not least that employees are given the opportunity to organise themselves. If we're going to succeed in doing something, we're going to have to get with the EU, otherwise probably all our companies will end up in Ireland. There's little talk about it today, but one thing we also need to have with us is that this can undermine the economy of the companies, which in turn can create unfortunate situations. We've just graduated from 2013 with historically low figures for the deaths of aircraft accidents, and it's important that you have that zero vision. That's why it's also important that we now work on this and keep pressure on what we've put into it. I will end by saying that it is not like I have anything against Norwegian's bet in Norway and out, on the contrary, but they have to act neatly, so that you get competition on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1350	Aviation is important to our country. I use with love in my voice to say that's my bus. It's aviation that allows us to live and commute, travel from north to south, from south to north, from west to east, etc., and that we also have the opportunity to be international. It binds us together, and it gives business opportunities for increased value creation. It's also about many jobs. In the transport committee, we just had a briefing from Avinor on how they turn around in terms of both increased efficiency and new ways of organizing themselves, and they have exciting projects in terms of biofuels for aeroplanes as one of the areas of activity. That's very interesting, and that's very right. We are constantly being challenged by social dumping in a number of sectors. We see that we are becoming more and more globalized. Non-resident labour comes in, not least for the transport sector, which has poor pay and working conditions. It's part of the challenges we face in today's society. The Centre Party considers that Norwegian pay and working conditions apply in Norway. It is important that we address social dumping in Norway and that we also do not contribute to social dumping in other countries. Aviation is liberalised. Competition both in Europe and globally is significantly intensified, and it appears that progress is being made towards further strengthening. For example, some airlines operating in Norway use creative solutions to circumvent legislation and put pressure on pay and working conditions. Internationally, we see a development in which companies shop items of various services where they are the cheapest, and where the protection of employees is perhaps the worst. It is important that we now tackle these issues with the Norwegian aviation industry and ensure a level playing field. There are many workers in Norwegian aviation today, and these workers are of great importance to the country as a whole. I believe that closer cooperation within the international bodies must be put in place to ensure clearer legislation in this area, so that we guarantee both our national industry and equality and good conditions for workers in this sector overall.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1367	First of all, it's worth thanking the representative Lise Christoffersen for raising an exciting debate here in Stortinget, which I assume has its background in a series of media essays, especially on the NRK, in the fall, on the conditions in the aviation industry in general and in the airline Norwegian in particular. It is an important debate to take, but I also feel the need to recognise that it is important that we do not clear the scope of social dumping for meaning. Because it's not like everyone who gets less pay than others is at risk of social dumping, at least not when the option is a far less paid job. I don't think anyone here disagrees that security and the working environment are important, and that rules on whether to follow, not least in an industry like aviation, where the consequences of mistakes can be disastrous. There must be strict security requirements at all times. There is nothing that should be competitive. What is an acceptable salary level, however, is of course more controversial. What is acceptable, perhaps even a very high wage for an immigrant or foreign employee, is not necessarily the case for a Norwegian worker who is exposed to competition. It's not that it's about social dumping. If all wage competition by definition is social dumping, the issue will be effectively cleared of meaningful content, which hardly benefits workers. Just one example of this was drawn up in the debate we had in the fall, with Thai cabin crew working on the Norwegian route between Europe and Asia, which lit $15,000 on average a month. It's clear that for many Nordics there's a pretty low salary, but in Thailand there's eight times more than average pay. The conditions in aviation are particularly demanding, as they have been for a long time in shipping. This is about industries that are, by their very nature, international and compete on the world market. It's imperative to stick around for everyone. In shipping, the solution for many countries has been the zero-tax regime for reindeers, and for Norway, a net wage system for seafarers who cost billions of dollars a year. Let's hope we don't end up there when it comes to aviation. Norwegian rules and collective agreements shall, of course, apply in Norway. It's important. But to expect that all employees who happen to work for Norwegian companies around the world will have a salary level of Norwegian, will quickly lead to the deflagration of Norwegian companies and Norwegian jobs. What is very important, on the other hand, is that we make strict demands on Norwegian companies when it comes to openness in pay terms, when it comes to organisation, and when it comes to transparent corporate structures. Although low-cost companies do not necessarily do anything illegal, consumers are required to provide clear information on how companies operate. And one thing that should definitely be possible to compete on is ‘best practice’ and what consumers will perceive as good and responsible business. Finally, I would like to stress that it is good for the Council of State to take initiatives towards the EU. What we're talking about here is an area that is difficult for individual countries to fully regulate alone, but where international rules are very important, and in this case for Norway, as in very many other cases, pan-European rules. It is important to ensure that it is possible to have a level playing field between European carriers, and not least to ensure that safety is a non-competitive feature.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1382	As elected representatives and trade unionists, I am delighted that the representative Christoffersen is lifting the working conditions of travel today, in the continuation of the work of the red-green government on this. It's private and public service we have the most of national and international. That's where people work most and do work that creates joy and well-being for others, on land, at sea and in the air. Even I dreamt of becoming an air hostess, as it was then called, but ended up in the hotel industry, took a letter as a receptionist and enjoyed among travellers for 17 years. My employer gave us trust, responsibility and participation in a good partnership. It is such that the professions with services must also have respect and dignity in the early and late stages. Such professions can and should be rewarding and live on. Now I work in the office with core time and flexibility. And when you've tried both parts, you see a miles of difference in such work and switching with a stamping clock. But the development of my dream profession scares. The interpellant has given us good descriptions of an industry on wild roads, and the NRK reported on cabin crew with a basic salary of NOK 2850 last year. And then you go 10 km to buy food when you land at the Gardermoen. The working environment is threatened, safety is threatened. As of 1 March last year, SAS had to introduce new working hours for cabin crew, and many have stopped. A 2012 study showed that only 42 pst. felt that they were able to balance leisure and working time there. The Council of State took up the competition and the price struggle. I don't want to go back to the time when only the most advanced people could afford to fly, but we have to be able to ask ourselves if it makes sense that domestic flights and some trips abroad will only cost 249 kroner in a sustainable society. Maybe a not four oval Baltic weekends or two Asia-tours need annually to take part in the good life. Maybe you can pay a little more to keep fair working conditions and at the same time take climate considerations and preserve our land, so that the ticket price can go up a little bit. Because we have to have economically sustainable companies. Fortunately, the Norwegian traffic report recently showed a strong growth for the company, and they fill their planes better. SAS also had some growth. But we see that the capacity increases and the revenue per kilometre goes down. It has to do with the low price. But there are very many of us who are willing to pay a little more and choose from quality and service, not just based on price. So it's my hope that the Council of State will listen to the employees through their active trade unions in the field, and have the aim of respecting these and thinking about their dignity, and not just making it cheap for the consumers. I also hope that aviation's various professional groups will come together, for example: in a LO Association, as they have now discussed. Then one of the world's strongest trade movements, which has laid the foundation for the Norwegian model, can be the joint owners of the collective agreement, and several hundred thousand could be behind their struggles when capital does not respect the labour force. It's through professional organization and struggle we've developed one of the world's best and fairest nations. That fight continues, but the authorities have a responsibility to help, including we who are elected to the people. We need to limit the employer's right of governance and the ability to make arrangements. It is therefore gratifying that the Minister for Transport has now taken an initiative towards the EU to address this issue at a higher level on aviation challenges. As we have heard from Rotevatn's speeches here before, in this kind of debate we are a little bit different, we on the different sides of the policy, and the differences between us are more evident in terms of human vision and respect for the rights of workers. I hope we can put that consideration very high here when we go into the further work. For my part and for the SV, ensuring a safe working life for the individual's economy and health is fundamental, both nationally and internationally, and we will follow along and play along in the further consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1405	It has been interesting to follow a debate that I have seen up to, because it affects important principles of Norwegian working life. I am a little surprised that the Council of State is almost attacking the interpellant and the party traps of the interpellant that were previously in government, when the starting point of the interpellant is to a large extent asking whether the announced measures of the previous government will be followed up by the present one. I see that the interpellant is actually trying to have a constructive approach to something that I hoped was a common challenge for both the government and the opposition, namely how to manage to care for the interests of a serious Norwegian working life. I thought – and I hope still – that it is our common ambition. It's anyway our shared responsibility. So far, there is something unclear to me if the Council of State on behalf of the government clearly states that we will take care of Norwegian pay and working conditions. I heard with interest from the representative Rotevatn's definition of social dumping that low wages were not necessarily social dumping if the alternative was even lower wages. At that time, pay levels in Norway may be low, before one says and admits that there is just social dumping. But I prefer to focus on what I heard Rotevatn say later in his post, that it was a matter of course that Norwegian pay and working conditions should apply in Norway. If I willingly interpret it as that it also applies to any Thai or other workers working within the borders of Norway, I choose at least to interpret it as positive and hope that I heard correctly. And now I'm really adding the goodwill. The challenge is quite classic in relation to a globalised world. The fact that we have effective competition is important in international business. However, it is important for fair and effective competition that it takes place under good framework conditions and a framework that provides a good and healthy business life. There's nothing new about business crossing borders. Just in the phase that international aviation is right now, I think there is reason to learn a lot from shipping and shipping, because it has exactly the same elements that a starter in one country, a lander in another country – and perhaps even those who work there, not from any of the two countries. This development has led to very low wage conditions and very strong competition for wages in international shipping. There we have had to make international rules, and we have had to make the Norwegian tax system competitive with international shipping, which I think is right, because Norwegian shipping companies are going to compete on equal terms. But it is therefore not desirable to have a development in which the level of pay, safety or, for that matter, the environmental aspect is pushed down in standard. That's why we worked towards IMU when it came to shipping. I also hope, as the Council of State has been involved, that we will work internationally to set the same minimum standards for international aviation, which we unfortunately got done too late for international navigation, and learn from those experiences. Norway has made a significant contribution to the maritime standard of the seven seas. We should contribute with those experiences towards aviation. Then I am glad that the letter finally went yesterday. At least the interpellation has led to something. But I want a clearer response from the Council of State if it is an ambition to maintain Norwegian pay and working conditions. And not only pay terms – it's not random that we also say working conditions, because it's about working time and rhythm, which is important, as well as wages. It is important because it ensures competition for Norwegian serious operators in an international market. And it's not least important in terms of working conditions in order to ensure safety in the air, so that not an eternal self at low cost ultimately goes beyond the safety that we're all concerned with in aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1424	I would like to thank you for the debate. I think there are many important points that have emerged here, and I have a hope that the Norwegian big thing is reasonably in agreement with where you want to. I think it's a little sad that the largest positioning party, Right, did not choose to participate in the debate, but I expect that the Council of State, even though he's from another government party, has a kiss on that matter, so that we can also count on the largest government party when we're going to work on the questions. What is social dumping?, has been raised here as a question. I want to stress that the starting point can't be where your house is, but where you actually work. It's about who you compete with, and it's about preventing undermining Norwegian pay and working conditions. So I wish the Council of State in its last article also said a little more about how you think about working further. The size should be included in the discussion – that is good. What about the government's international contacts and Nordic cooperation? The Danish State Councillor Solvik-Olsen is working on exactly the same issues and has an on-going sample to report in March 2014. It's very good time. It would certainly give greater weight to the EU system if one, for example, were to do so. be able to coordinate at Nordic level. On 11 February, representatives of the staff of the industry shall take part in a consultation within the European Parliament. It would probably have been a strength for the participation to have the opportunity to be heard from employees’ organisations in the EU – that one can show that there are actually employees’ organisations and the Norwegian government in this respect. One may use the elements mentioned in the debate here today that one has a ‘backing’ from the Norwegian authorities. I expect that it also means something within the EU system. I myself intend to raise the issue in the Council of Europe in 14 days, where the President of the European Parliament will come and speak to the Council of Europe. I'm going to ask him questions about how they're going to meet what's coming out of the hearing that's going to be on February 11. Then there's a lot of things we haven't had time to get into, including that with the capacity and competence of those who are set to supervise. Both employers’ and employees’ representatives have indicated that there is a need for upgrading. Security we've only been so far within, a debate in itself. I am not in doubt that a group of crews who know each other well and communicate well between themselves and with the passengers are the ones who will deal with critical situations best. Finally, only a small reminder that an important element of Action Plan 3 is to increase the level of organisation in sectors where the level of organisation is low. We should also be able to work on this in tripartite cooperation, because it will be a strength for the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1442	In this debate, I have stressed the concerns of the government, namely that we should develop Norwegian aviation industries, contribute to better provision for travellers and ensure safety through good oversight. Then it's important that it's also coordinated internationally. We must ensure predictable and orderly competitive conditions. We need to ensure that we have an orderly working environment. It's been the message all the way. The fact that Andersen is trying to question it is probably more about him being turned around when he is reminded that the previous government did not take the initiatives that today's government has taken. The fact that we have now sent letters to the European Commission is an initiative we have taken. The fact that things went on yesterday is simply about the fact that there was a big conference – a big meeting – in Washington last week that it was important that we got the results from before taking the initiative of the European Commission. It's as simple as it is. Then it's good if the workers' party people feel better about being involved in taking credit for it. Nothing is better than that people in the Storing are happy and happy when the government does things. We will listen to all parties. I also record that the U.S. authorities have done so. When some representatives give the impression that the US authorities have criticized Norwegian, that's not my experience. But American trade unions have taken care of their interests by criticizing Norwegian – that's right. We are responding to the conclusions of the US authorities, and it is important that the dialogue under way continues between the United States, the EU and Norway. I don't want to be part of the Workers' Party's witch hunt on one airline. As far as I've observed, Norwegian has said that they aim to establish bases in the United States and hire Americans. I will not regard it as social dumping if it flies the American crew on Norwegian flights to Norway. I record that the Labour Party thinks so, but it seems to me to be dragging the expression social dumping well far. What is important is that we have an orderly relationship, that we can compete on the different international lines on conditions that are relevant in the countries to which we are flying, but that – I have said that before – for example. Having thai-crew on flights between European countries, I perceive to be a breach of the intention that I experience that most of the Stortinges care. In conclusion, I would like to say that I feel that the representative Rotevatn has a good human vision. I feel that he is concerned about safety and good working conditions. But he is also concerned that the world is like it is, that in competition between Norwegian airlines and low-cost airlines on routes to low-cost countries, we also have to deal with differences in pay levels. That's a little bit of what makes this complicated. It is difficult for Norwegian authorities to demand that Thai airlines have Norwegian flights to Norway. It's complicated, and it should especially take on board SV, so that we can get a proper debate that allows us to get solutions that stand out over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1457	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1463	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1547	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-16.ana.ud752e1559	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
