ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e26	The representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e29	On behalf of the representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative for a ban on the placing on the market of genetically modified maize lines T25 and NK 603.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e34	The representative, Mr Breivik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e37	I am delighted on behalf of myself, Trine Skei Grande, Abid Q. Raja and Ola Elvestuen to put forward a proposal for a representative to make children's life a law of rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e54	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e59	The Labour Party is too state-owned, but has a pragmatic view of what the State is going to do, and how. The objective may be different: securing the income from our natural resources or caring for other important societal considerations, such as Norwegian Typing or Vinmonopolet. It can also be about purely commercial interests, and then we expect companies to operate according to commercial principles, preferably in partnership with private interests. State ownership is not a sleeping cushion for unprofitable businesses or has lost its position in the market. We also have a pragmatic view of the percentage of ownership, for example, as we saw when Hydro joined alliance with Brazilian Vale. Now the government has announced sales in government business. The criticism of the state that owns has come mainly from the Right and the Advance Party in this room, and now we see that the government has sold all the shares in Cermaq, they have quoted Entra and asked the Stortinget for permission to sell entirely out of a number of state-owned companies, including the Flytrain. The main reason is the spread of power and the strengthening of private ownership. But is what we see as a result of this policy, or is it a purely ideological approach? There are large billions of values here, and there is reason to believe that we will mainly see foreign buyers, among them large funds, and not mainly Norwegian private environments. If we compare the country that owns sub-privatised and listed companies with companies on the stock exchange, with widespread ownership, often with elements of institutional non-residents as large funds, it is in no way obvious that government ownership provides less power than if those funds buy out the country's holdings. Where the state has been the owner, the companies have gone well, given good margins and earnings to the community, so there is no money Norway needs in such a sale. I want to know what cover the Prime Minister has to claim that the government sale will lead to more proliferation of power, more private ownership and more Norwegian ownership of the Norwegian capital market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e72	I am pleased that the Labour Party parliamentary leader stresses that the Labour Party has a pragmatic relationship with state ownership. It doesn't always sound like this in the debate. It also doesn't always sound like you've remembered your own story. We also have a pragmatic relationship with this, but we have a systematized pragmatic relationship with it. That is why we have provided a big message that categorises what ownership should be like. There are some important, large enterprises in which the country should have a large ownership, because they pay in relation to infrastructure in Norway, because they pay in relation to research and have head offices here in order to further develop and ensure a national Norwegian ownership. Therefore, we have said that it is not relevant to go below approx. one-third ownership of these companies. Then there are some other big companies that we've said we want a higher ownership interest in. And then for some companies we say that in these areas, there's no special reason why we should have a state ownership, what we call the Category 1 companies in the paper. These are companies that we believe it may be natural to liquidate ownership for years to come. The main reasons for each company have been explained in the report. For some of the companies that we have now wound up, sales powers were obtained under the previous government. I assume that it was because they themselves had an assessment that it was wise that the state should no longer own. Both Cermaq and Entra were authorized sales under the previous government, because they were supposed to be limited or sold out of these companies. BaneTele was sold to the Broadband Alliance and Secora to Torghatten ASA under the red-green. I assume that there is evidence of the pragmatic attitude at the time, and that is in line with what we have: a pragmatic attitude, but with the certainty that important businesses are Norwegian-owned and Norwegian-controlled.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e81	Thank you for a two-minute summary of the shopping message. I was not given an answer to the question of whether this sale would lead to a strengthening of private ownership and a proliferation of power. But let me take a concrete follow-up question. State forest manages more than one fifth of the land area in Norway, including large forest areas. This is an example of what has been common ownership in our country, which has worked well, and which has given the public good access to the many joys of the forest, including. hunting and fishing. Now the government is assessing different models of privatisation of Statskog's business. This has aroused great commitment. Norway's Hunters and Fishermen's Association, with thousands of members around the country, strongly warns against government privatisation plans. They say that hunting has become almost unattainable in parts of the country, with the exception of places where there is access to hunting and fishing on state land. This retail policy is a way of changing the way Norway looks and works. It is at least not to strengthen the access of the Nordics to what is common ownership, and therefore I ask the question: How does the government disagree with the Hunter and Fisher League in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e92	We are committed to ensuring the rights of the general public, which State Forest also manages in the years to come. Among other things, there is a clear specification in the mission given to State Forest, to identify and illustrate the extent to which public access to hunting — and conditions for hunting, fishing, outdoors and other user interests — can be affected in terms of privatisation, and the way to ensure that it does not get worse. There's something we've taken into account when we've asked Statskog to consider different forms of sales of some forest areas or major areas of activity. The reason why we do that is the desire to strengthen the Norwegian forest industry. It's about making sure that in the years to come we can manage the forest in Norway in an even more active way, and make sure that what I feel is that a large and broad majority here on the Storting are concerned about: that the forest is a future resource that we're going to have good management of in our country. We believe that private ownership can help manage it better than State Forest does today, but we are absolutely concerned with the public interest in this, and it is specified in the mission given to State Forest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e99	It opens for follow-up questions – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e102	I fear that the ideological approach of the government to the sale of state ownership will once again lead to lost income to the community. The inhabitants of Trondheim well remember the sale of the city's e-works by the Right Party and the Advance Party, which has been lost 1 billion. kr per. In the evening post on Saturday, former director of Telenor referred to the state ownership in Norway as ‘performing success’. Looking at the course development at Oslo Exchange for Telenor, which is on the government's list of sales, they have had an average annual return of 12.5 pst. In the 2015 budget, dividends of 5.7 billion are expected. kr for Telenor. In other words, a sale would result in the community again missing out on future billions of income. Does the government’s objective of reducing state ownership go ahead of the objective of securing Community income?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e111	I think I now heard a post that did not reflect the pragmatic attitude of the Workers' Party as to what to own or not own, but an ideological defense that the state should always own the most. I think that is wrong, I think it is important to assess the development potential of each company and the importance of each company for Norway. There are important core companies, such as: Telenor, and we've said that here you have to have a strategically important ownership, so that the research development and the head offices will continue to be there, but not necessarily with the same big ownership. Why? Yes, among others. Because when you're going to enter big new markets, you take more risk the bigger you own. There was a major discussion in the Stortinget in the previous period about the India exposure to Telenor. It has a potential, but it turns out not to give the same type of returns as you would like. That's one of the challenges we have to tackle. This isn't ideology, it's actually managing the values of the Norwegian state in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e116	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e119	The Christian People's Party believes there is room for a certain reduction of state ownership. The sale of State holdings in companies will generate large revenues to the State. We experience that part of the criticism of sales is due to fear that this money can be deposited in foreign funds, shares or property. My question to the Prime Minister is then: how does the Prime Minister and the Government manage the revenue from sales in such a way that it can promote entrepreneurial activity and value creation in Norway, for example: by establishing seed funds, etc., instead of depositing them into shares or foreign funds and property?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e125	The sale of state ownership shall not be used to undermine the rule of action or a responsible economic policy. Then there is basically not a lack of money in Norway, but with the scope of action we have in economic policy, we always have to make sure that we do not spend more money than the Norwegian business world can bear in total. Then there are many positive and good instruments that you could have had more of. The government is for seed funds, we are in favour of stimulating various other contributions, and we are also in favour of private ownership investing in more risky projects. That is why, among other things: proposes a new balance sheet within the wealth tax, where we increase the value of property, but we lower the rates of property tax, because we know that local private capital can often contribute to the further raising of small businesses. Then we must prevent them from having such difficult framework conditions that they have to pay taxes before they earn money. It is also important – not just to run after new government money, but to ensure that private money contributes to jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e132	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e135	One of the companies in which the government commits itself to selling and giving up control is the Kongsberg Group. One of the main tasks of the Kongsberg Group is the development and production of weapons and military material. In the event of a sale, we have no control over who takes over the majority of the ownership of the Kongsberg Group and the control of the company. It's probably going to be in foreign hands. My question is: does it not matter to the Prime Minister who owns the Kongsberg Group and has control of the company, or is there any owner who does not want the Prime Minister to have into the Kongsberg Group, with the business they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e142	Our proposal for changes in ownership in the Kongsberg Group is not to be sold out of the Kongsberg Group. Nor is it the case that the Norwegian law and legislation relating to arms control, development or armaments will change as a result of changing ownership shares. Control of what we produce in Norway, control of where we sell in Norway, is regulated by other laws and regulations. It also applies to all privately owned companies that produce out of Norway. We're concerned that it might be that we get strategic, good partners, it could be we can develop the company even better in the future, make the jobs safer. We want to assess jobs, development, safety in all contexts where we go down in ownership. Potential partners that can help actually make this an even better company will always have the first rank in the assessments we make of important companies when we go down into holdings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e149	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e152	I have an additional question about Statskog. State forests have extensive but also very varied properties from drifting forests, but also public opinion, which can to a large extent be common areas with strong grazing rights, which are varied and with strong public interest. My question to the Prime Minister is: when one goes into possible privatisation in Statskog, can one not go into what concerns the general government, where one has the strong Community interests? This must be very limited and could have a minor impact on some particularly large areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e159	I fully agree with that. Long-term public rights managed by State Forest today will have to be guaranteed to the public in the future. Therefore, these questions are part of the assessments to be made by State Forest when they are now investigating different models of how to privatise parts of its forest activities – I stress forest activities. That's what the mission is -- not as it was given the impression in the past -- that it's about privatising the administrative tasks that State Forest has, on behalf of the Norwegian people. Then we come back to how you can do it in practice, but the starting point for this is that there are private owners around the country who might want you to manage better and make sure that the forest industry, the whole logging industry in Norway, gets better and more efficient. And it should be our intention, no matter what natural resources we have, that it contributes to jobs, that it contributes to development, and that it contributes to more efficient operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e166	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e169	In Norwegian policy, it has been an important success factor that in key industries with major challenges and which will become important in the future, Norwegian ownership has been high. With the sale of Cermaq, the government has sold itself completely out of Norwegian breeding. Although it has our disunity on the red-green side of this sale, the Labour Party is now in agreement with SV that it has been a loser. The development of the farming industry is that there will be fewer actors, which means that the activity will be withdrawn from the community, and there will be more international actors, which will make many values disappear from the country. Is this a development that is completely indifferent to the government, or will the government take action to ensure that small actors who are closer to the communities are brought in and gripped to ensure that values created in the coastal farming industries go to the coastal population?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e176	This government has said that local communities in new concessions will have a greater share of the new concession money, unlike the red-green ones, which would initially give it to county municipalities. Then, fortunately, they repented. So we've helped to get more money back on new concessions to the community, because the burden on land bonding and other things is just in the community. So we're occupied with this is an industry that needs to be profitable, that needs to be environmentally good, and that's going to need capital to evolve, not least on the environmental aspects. This means that we are concerned about getting good skills and research-based development in these areas. Environmental aspects will be among the main aspects of this government in the further development of the farming industry. I don't think the state ownership is so important in this regard. The most important thing is the regulatory and growth opportunities we create, and what conditions we set for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e183	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e187	So the government wants to sell out State Forest, which is a company that manages very large values for the Norwegian people. At the same time, the government is the owner of a company at Svalbard – Great Norske – that produces coal. Thus, according to official rhetoric, carbon is the substance of Norwegian energy and climate policy, which is most concerned with getting rid of it. On Svalbard, cf. not least the new Northern Region Strategy of the Government, it is research, tourism, management and other things that are the Norwegian profile. The question to the Prime Minister then becomes: does the Prime Minister still see it as his and the State's task to continue the ownership and operation of a coal company that is in deficit on Svalbard and produces what the world needs at least in terms of climate and energy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e194	At first, I just want to say that we're not going to sell out State Forest. As I said earlier, for parts of the forest business we look at different models, considering whether it can be managed more by private individuals and possibly transferred to private ownership in Norway. In the case of coal operations on Svalbard, there are major challenges associated with it. The press releases we've seen show that the international coal price is very low. That means that the current profitability is low. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is in a process with companies to discuss further development plans related to this. This has been a cornerstone company for the presence of Svalbard. But there are some dilemmas, as Rasmus Hansson points out, related to what we mean internationally about coal mining, and the question of the balance between the climate issue and the national presence. Fortunately, in the last 20 years, we have been able to build up several legs to stand on Svalbard, but I can't tell you what we're going to do, because we're now monitoring the situation in cooperation with the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e201	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e204	‘It doesn’t help to say from here, they don’t do anything from anywhere.’ These words belonged to 13-year-old Odin. His story and his experience of not being heard when he reported that he was being bullied, have made a strong impression on many people in the last few days. This week several Norwegian youths have stood up and told about their bullying stories. Unfortunately, there are several people who share this experience, that it doesn't help to say from, because nobody does anything anyway. We are many who have a responsibility to combat bullying, and we are many who have a responsibility to help our children have a safe and good learning environment at school. Teachers, school leaders and school owners also have their share of that responsibility, and I know that there are a lot of teachers doing a lot of work in this area. For many, just being able to make a positive contribution to the lives of children is an important reason why they chose a job at school, and fortunately there are also very many who succeed well. But sometimes we hear about children and parents who experience not being heard. On Sunday, there will be organized torch against bullying here in Oslo and several other places in the country. The fight against bullying engages. I think we all share a common desire that no children in the future should have to say those words again, that it doesn't help to say from, because nobody does anything anyway. My question to the Prime Minister is, what does she think we can do, we as politicians and we as societies, so that no children should have to say these words in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e217	I think we're all deeply concerned about the statements in the VG related to Odin, and we know that there are very many other children, estimated at 17,000 in our country, who experience bullying every week, maybe every month, some every day, at their school. This is a question that can lead to many individual measures, but one of the main challenges is to create an attitude, which is about us parents, school management and others, to address the environment that is in the individual school. And then we can make a lot of rules, and we're doing that. The Djupedal Committee will take a position in March 2015, with new measures related to the fight against bullying. We've revitalized the bullying party, there's going to be new rules of order and behaviour, and the county officials are making lists of the schools where the students report that there are most cases of bullying. Many newspapers have published these lists. There is a stigmatizing experience for those schools that are high on the lists, but I hope that it also leads to significant action in those schools. There's a lot of things we have to do small and big to prevent this. The most important thing, I think, is that the school must have an eternal focus on building empathy, building understanding for others, working for more tolerance, caring for the school environment, not least making sure that other kids who watch bullying, say stop, and that adults who watch bullying, don't apologize. It is a matter of accountability for the whole line in Norwegian school everyday life, but also among us who are parents. It is often the case that when these matters come up, they are difficult for the school to handle, because the parents of those who have bullied do not realize that their children also contribute to the bullying.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e226	Thank you for the answer from the Prime Minister. I am very pleased that we have a prime minister who is engaged in this subject. She puts forward the role of parents and the importance of parents, and I think that's very important, because it's clear that we, as children in school, have a responsibility for our children entering the school gate with good attitudes. It's not a responsibility we can discharge at the moment they enter the door of the school. Much research also points to active and committed parents and good school-home cooperation contributing to a better learning environment at school and better relationships between pupils and teachers. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if she and this government will look at measures to strengthen school-home cooperation at Norwegian schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e231	I don't think we can reject any good ideas about how to strengthen the work against bullying in school, simply because much of the effort we have on knowledge and competence for the rest, won't work if children sit at school and are afraid of what's going to happen in the spare minute, is afraid of what's going to happen on the school road afterwards. That means we have to have a stronger focus, and good input, I think we're all going to take it with us. One of the things that the Minister of Knowledge has advertised is that in the worst cases where it's almost impossible to do things, it's no longer the child who gets bullied, who has to move on, it's actually the ones who bully, who have to move on. But that's the last solution. The most important solution is to prevent this from happening at all, and to have much better contact between adults. It is both the parents and the school who have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e238	It opens for follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e241	I am pleased with the offensive attitude of the Prime Minister to this great challenge. Bodil Houg, a bully in Buskerud, says: ‘What can be done? Listen to the Minister of Knowledge. In his reaction to the Odin case, he pointed out that the anti- bullying work has played down. Our actions have not had the desired effect. Our understanding of bullying has made no big difference. This is a recognition so important that it should have ring-effects.» These are very serious words when one sits with the exercising power. We now understand that the government is thinking about a follow-up, not least after the Djupedal elections, but my challenge to the Prime Minister is: what is the whole-hearted strategy when we can conclude that what we've done so far has gone down?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e251	I think it's too violent to say that what we've done so far has gone down, because over many years we've had many good school projects and many good and responsible school leaders. We see that the work has been systematized to a large extent. We know that the mob payments went down after the first launch of Manifesto against bullying, as Prime Minister Bondevik and then Minister of Knowledge Clement presented in 2003. There's something about the vigilance here, there's something about the system strategy that needs to be done. It's important. That's why we're saying this is going to go into school management/rector's education -- everywhere you work with the school and learning environment. It is also important that municipalities take seriously the lists that have now been published, and say, what do we do with the situation that is in many schools, when the students themselves report that they have experienced a lot of bullying? Then you also have to take responsibility for school management in the individual schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e260	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e264	I am pleased with the Prime Minister's response and commitment to this serious matter, and not least because she also points to good school management and systematic work on a good learning environment as key factors and important tools. But what's sad and still a reality, unfortunately, is that schools don't always stretch to. Therefore, it is good to have the help of non-governmental organisations. In the government's draft budget, it was cut by approx. 7.5 million. to organisations which have the common aim of contributing where the school does not always extend to. These include MOT, which is committed to building robust young people and secure youth environments, Rosa Competence under the direction of LLH, who are working to prevent bullying based on homophilis, etc., the Change Factory, which works with children who experience injuries, and UNICEF – to name a few. Why does the government want these organisations to be less active in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e273	We have made some adjustments for some organisations, and some are indirectly affected by a more general reduction in adult education. It is not a signal that I believe we should do less in Norwegian school, but it is an assessment of how we provide support. On the other hand, we have increased the key considerably. This means that both non-governmental organisations and sport get a lot more money next year, that's the biggest promise for volunteering done. That's actually the change that's within the key. So it's in the hundred trillion dollar class -- against these other examples. Then it's important to work with the volunteer organisations and organisations else. I think having more health professionals and others working at school, having other jobs, is important to have more places to go. I think the example of the bully in Buskerud is very good. I remember that it was Young Right who blew it through in the Busherud Right County Program the last time, just for the commitment they've had to reduce bullying around the schools. And I think it's a good example when more county councils now get to go elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e280	Janne Sjelmo Nordås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e283	Bullying has gradually become a very widespread social problem. I am very pleased with the commitment that the Prime Minister and others have shown in the matter after the various matters we have seen. I also want to say that when it comes to online bullying, adults are sometimes bad role models. There's a lot going on among the web roles that I'd call bullying other people. That's not exactly a good example for our children. The Prime Minister has pointed out that there is a need in school for both management, time and various measures that we may have to agree on. But I also want to ask the Prime Minister what she sees as possible measures to correct the behaviour of those who are bullying – not just measures to protect, although it is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e292	There are just some of the things in which the Minister of Knowledge has now announced that there may be both legislative changes and new rules of procedure in order to be more clearly able to have sanctions and reactions to them as bullies. So it's like there's two things that have to be done. One thing is to have a clear and clear reaction to them as bullies, but it's also to mobilize the resources of all those who are looking at. It is both the school's responsibility and the parents' responsibility to tell children that they actually have an individual responsibility: when you see bullying, you should say no, then you should say that it is not acceptable that this happens. That's what I mean by empathy building among children and young people. I fully agree that the web is one of the major challenges we have for it. Unfortunately, we see that many children are also being bullied online, many young people are being bullied online, and adult behavior online is not always good examples. But one of the big campaigns going on is the use of the wit-campaign, which is a very good way to teach kids how to not use the web.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e297	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e300	‘It doesn’t help to say from here, they don’t do anything from anywhere’ is the quote from Odin in VG. That's a very serious question. I appreciate the answer to the Prime Minister. It's important to look at school management. They have the overall responsibility of each school. But it is also important to look at the role of the teacher — that one builds up the teacher as a safe leader in the classroom and in the school situation. Then my question becomes: When the government wants us to have more continuing training of teachers, will this also be a central part of continuing education – to have safe teachers who have control and management in their day-to-day school, and to which it will also be useful to say from now on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e309	Class management is also among the things embedded in the continuing training programmes that we now have. In addition, we have a separate project where the schools and municipalities that want to do so receive guidance and support through tailor-made arrangements to reduce bullying. It shows, among other things: how to use network resources, guidance on laws and regulations, but also how to use the teaching of the principal and how to obtain assistance from external environments that are good at this work. So both parts have to be part of -- having clear and clear class management, having a good principal training and management training is important. And then it's really important that we have relief measures, and that the municipalities like school owners see that they have to contribute when some schools get out of shape.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e316	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e319	I would like to thank the questioner and the Prime Minister for their commitment to the cause. Bullying is totally unacceptable. In Norway, we have much less bullying than in other countries, but at the same time too much. 17,000 says they're being bullied two to three times a month. There's reason enough to keep going on this. The former governments have also invested heavily in this. The red-green government made several important promise changes, such as changing the burden of proof, and came up with different programs that have also contributed here. But I think that an inclusive school with a broad knowledge view is also a very important reason for this. It's the everyday job that needs to be done, which is the important thing. A group that often gets forgotten is the school attendance. In their guide they have done a very important job when it comes to the school environment, and my question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister want eartags to strengthen the school health service, so that it reaches a minimum level and they can help fight bullying in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e330	We have proposed a strengthening of the school health service. Both last year and this year it has been significantly strengthened in relation to the municipalities. And then we don't think that we're always much better at making all the good decisions than for example. The European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions will be represented by the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee They might just want to see how to better strengthen the individual school. I also believe that they have the same experience and alertness around bullying, etc., and therefore I will never become a big fan of earmarked schemes. The reason for this is that earmarked schemes lead to more bureaucracy, which means spending more hours on reporting. In a society where we're going to have fewer time thieves, we have to stop making the simple political solutions and say 'eye mark' every time we want to prioritise something, because that's what helps teachers to have more reporting, which makes school administration grow, state control grow, that we're left with less money to spend on service, and that we get a growing bureaucracy. That's the dilemma with ear tagging. That sounds good in the political debate. In practice, we use resources in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e338	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e341	The government sells Norway bit by bit. The government will get rid of the Fly train, and the government will give up control of Telenor and Kongsberg Group. In the Ministry of Agriculture, there are processes in place to get rid of State Forest. Foreigners are increasingly owned by Norway. 37 pst. of the value of Oslo Exchange is everything on foreign hands. The government clearly believes that it is too small, and adds in the ownership message to a further sale of Norwegian ownership at Oslo Børs. The government's policy is based on the fact that there is a contradiction between facilitating private ownership and public ownership. Everyone agrees that private ownership should be the general rule in Norway, but state ownership is an important tool to help ensure national ownership. Telenor says that in Asia, it's an advantage when you go in, to have Norwegian public owners in your back. We have also been confirmed today that the money will not go into important reforms in Norway, but into the oil fund. And that's what's most pointless about the state sales – that the government is moving capital from important Norwegian companies to the world's stock exchanges. The oil fund is now about 5 800 billion. kr, and by giving away the national control over Telenor and the Kongsberg Group, we can add a few billion more. But then we lose national ownership and control of these important companies. Why does the Prime Minister think it is important to sell away from Norwegian companies and instead place the money in the oil fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e348	This is equal to the first question we had. I can actually refer to all the answers I gave in that round earlier today. I find it interesting to hear that everyone believes that private ownership should be the most important cornerstone. I wonder! Is it that private ownership is stimulated in Norway, or is it penalised? I think it's punishable. I experience that every time we discuss private ownership, it is that you are primarily concerned that someone has too much money, and less concerned about what jobs they actually create. That is the debate we have every day. I have to say that I am a little surprised that someone who has been sitting in a red-green government who does not recognise your own party programme's desire to reduce the taxation of private ownership in Norway believes that everyone agrees on this. Because that is not the way the political debate until day-to-day works. It is not that that money is not used in Norway. They are going well for use in Norway. We've transferred money to a climate fund, and we've increased it more than the red-green ones did. We have a road maintenance fund that we have committed, and an infrastructure fund. And there's also a way to bind the money that comes in here. We have a pragmatic relationship with our ownership, but we have a systematic in that pragmatism. We are concerned that we should develop ownership, we should ensure national control of the main companies. It's not like we're selling Telenor, but we're reducing some of how much we own in Telenor. These include: because Telenor is involved in some risky investments. If we want more money, they might as well pick up money in other parts of the market, like there's going to be money we invest abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e355	I am glad that the Prime Minister does not refer to the previous answer, because I felt that we did not get a very good answer as to why this is right and important. It was said earlier that one should remember the story, and I will go back to the story yesterday. Then the Prime Minister of Dagbladet said that ‘quarterly capitalism and non-resident owners are more important than long-term Norwegian ownership.’ It is that state ownership in Norway is an instrument to ensure long-term Norwegian ownership. Sometimes, when reading the ownership message, it may seem that it is more important for the government to ensure that foreigners have something to live on the day the oil ends than to manage the Norwegian interests for the benefit of the Norwegian people. One example is that in the third quarter, Telenor had a gross operating surplus of 10 billion. kr. In the same period, the oil fund had a return of 0,1 pst. Is the Prime Minister certain that it is wise from an economic perspective to make the transactions that a person now commits?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e362	I think the whole debate on unorthodox or Norwegian is a rather foolish debate, to be completely honest. I think the most important thing we do is to ask what kind of society we want in the future. I want more private owners, I want a lot of new businesses, I want us to make that transition both to a greener society, to a society that is sustainable for our children in the future, and to have security for our well-being. In fact, we need to look through both the portfolio and the companies owned by the state today, but above all we need better conditions of competition for Norwegian business in the years to come. Under the previous government, taxation of private capital increased significantly. It was a shift from the wealth tax burden on pensioners in the first place, to a significantly stronger corporate, workplace and owner-taxation under the red-green government. I believe that if we really want to speed up Norway and the conversion needs we have, then we have to look at the conditions of competition. There is no large-scale sale of ownership, it is an adjustment of what we have, and the state ownership is going to be large also with the message we have provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e369	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Janne Sjelmo Nordås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e372	The flight has been largely a success that people are well pleased with. Now it opens for sale. Will the Prime Minister say that the travellers will receive a better offer after sale?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e377	I believe that the Flytog may be an exciting new development with other owners, who might be able to participate in competitive tendering in other areas of the Norwegian network in the future. We know that after the competition at Gjøvikbanen we got more departures, lower costs and better material. It shows that competition actually works in this area. The flight is a very good company, but the fact that it's good operation, as an alternative, means that we have an opportunity to develop it into one of the actors that can help us get a little more competition to provide the transport service itself, which makes the train services in Norway better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e382	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e385	The Labour Party has a dynamic approach to state ownership, and when we crashed, we sold Secora. We reduced the share in Hydro when the company joined alliance with Brazilian Vale, and we secured the power to purchase again. And the state bought up in Cermaq. The government now only wants to sell and sell. Paradoxically, important industrial companies that are sold can end up on foreign hands, and the income entered into the Pension Fund is used to buy up foreign companies. Should not a capitalist nation like Norway also invest in strategically important companies in this country, and is the Prime Minister so pragmatic that she also follows us to buy up on state ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e390	I will not deny that there may be situations where it is correct that the Norwegian State is going to buy up. This has been done under former bourgeois governments to secure and consolidate businesses. This could be done, for example, by: are made in connection with any strategic purchase. There's no such thing that lies ahead of us right now, but we don't have a principle view that makes us unable to participate in it. Then, the key to future challenges in Norway is to ensure that we have a wide portfolio of small and medium-sized enterprises in the coming years. Many of them are likely to feel the need to improve access to capital, to improve access to risk capital. There are areas where we're going to contribute to it in the years that come, without necessarily having to go into direct ownership, but we can go into indirect ownership forms. For example, once we have entered into a seed fund, it is against having an indirect ownership of many small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e398	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e401	I thank the questioner. This is a question that there's a lot of commitment around the Storting, and it's related to the previous question, where I asked a question that didn't get a proper answer. When one has sold out of the farming industry and is about to conduct a more liberal concession policy, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the previous round of the Red-Green Government. There was a demand that new concessions can only go to companies that have 20 concessions or fewer, just to ensure that this is not an industry dominated by a few companies, after all large foreign companies, which makes the values disappear from the community. Is this a scheme for any new government concessions? Is this a scheme that the government wants to continue and has an assessment of the introduction of an area tax that guarantees values for the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e408	I think maybe the question is on the side of what was the main question, but I can only briefly answer that we are dedicated to developing a profitable, competitive and environmentally sustainable farming industry. Therefore, many of the criteria used by the government will be linked to sustainability issues in the future. I think that is necessary for this industry to become a future industry for Norway. It has enormous potential; not least it has in North Norway, where it can contribute to the great need we have for proteins and healthy proteins in the world in the years to come. What we've said so far is that we're going to increase the growth of all today's concessions, provided they meet sustainability principles. Then there's a big message about these issues to the Storting and also about the principles of how the development of the industry is going to be. It's working on it, and it's announced that it will come to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e415	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e418	The National Audit Office presented yesterday a report saying that access to patient records is too easy. The National Audit Office believes that it is almost random for healthcare companies to detect sneezing in patient records. Only in Oslo University Hospital, there are more than 100 million referrals in patient records per year. Last month, they gave all patients access to electronic patient records. In our decision, we adopted here in Stortinget – a majority, against, among other things. The votes of the left – that all of Norway should now have an electronic patient record, without the possibility of consent, but with the right of reservation. In Estonia, one of Europe’s most digitised countries, they have not gone that far. There, the patient carries the key to healthcare professionals’ access and their own patient information via an electronic patient card. In Australia, they have systems ready for electronic patient records, but they will not let everyone in in three to four years, for privacy reasons. They will have a gradual testing and phase-in and training of citizens and health professionals before they allow everyone to use the patient record. In Australia this is defined as critical national infrastructure. In Norway, there is a flood of systems and a very fragmented responsibility. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure privacy and reduce sneezing in Norwegian patients’ health information?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e429	I think it is incredibly important that the patient information that is electronic, and previously physically located, be kept with a very high degree of discretion, and that it should be fully possible to follow who enters them. In the core journal system, what is available is also limited. At the same time, there are some huge gains in it. The unconscious person who comes into an emergency room, who is not known about allergies or the drugs he goes on, will be treated much faster with this system. So it's life-saving that we have this kind of electronic journal that it's possible to get into, because in these minutes or seconds, life can actually be lost if you don't know – if you're afraid, for example. allergic reactions or other. Then there are some difficult choices. And we've stood up in these difficult choices. What we think is that there is a too fragmented development of ICT in the health sector. This is why the Minister of Health has also taken action to better coordinate ICT developments, including: to ensure that data protection systems are better linked to it. That's why we have to follow up the tracking, i.e. track who's inside, because it's an important mechanism to prevent people from entering: knowing that you can be discovered and separated. Every year several health professionals in Norway were separated on the basis that they have been involved in personal data and other matters that they really had no reason to do. We need to work on this in each area, and the Minister of Health is very concerned about enhanced ICT development and not least about taking a better national approach around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e438	I thank you for your answer. We agree that the big gains here are going to be solved, and we have a common direction. But at the same time, there's an enormous vulnerability here for the individual, with all the information we make available in this way. In Norway, we have chosen a very offensive approach to this by phase-in, without ensuring that we have sufficient security for those computer systems, and we have put the responsibility on many different actors. When Australia says they're using simulators to train health professionals — and patients too — to use the systems, it's not that easy to see how we're attacking it here in Norway. When we meet with the Norwegian Data Protection Agency, they say that they are contacted by health companies and hospitals for training, and that hospitals do not have that capacity on their own. There's one of the critical questions here. How does the Prime Minister see this to be possible in Norway? Do we have a national plan for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e449	The main first step taken last year was that in the 2014 mission letter to the Health Regions, the government asked for the establishment of a national ICT company located in Bergen to contribute to better coordination of ICT developments in Hospital-Norway. It's important to make sure that we have a system that interacts, that we're actually one nation in terms of health information and ICT, but also because it will make us better secure data protection issues when you have one common place that also provides the thresholds for the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e454	It opens for follow-up questions - first André N. Skelestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e457	The Danes were shaken by the revelations that the Danish Watch and Hør has informants in airlines, credit card companies and hospitals, who sold confidential information about their customers/patients. Among other things, discovered that employees at the Reichshospital gave information about known women who were going to ultrasound, so that Watch and Hørs journalists and photographers could be in place at the hospital when the women had hours. A well-known Dane who was exposed to it said in connection with the revelation that he had an unpleasant experience when his girlfriend for some time back was in the hospital for ultrasound. The child was dead, we were sorry, he said, and then called Watch and Listen in the afternoon and congratulated on the pregnancy. In this light, there is particular concern when the Riksrevision believes it would be almost random for healthcare companies to detect snooping in patient records. Our trust is based on the fact that confidential information we share remains confidential. Is the Prime Minister certain that what was revealed in Denmark will not take place in Norway? And how will the Prime Minister ensure that confidence in health care is maintained when we know that journals are as easily accessible as the Riksrevision suggests?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e464	You can never be sure that you do not go in and read that you should not. That health professionals can corrupt and go in and find information, you can never be 100 pst. safe on. There is a balance between the question of health professionals in a crisis situation being able to provide life-saving help and whether it is so difficult to enter that kind of information. I believe that we have strengthened this considerably. So I believe that the precisely See and Hør scandal in Denmark is a press-ethic issue, it is a question that needs to be addressed to the press, and not just a question that needs to be addressed to health professionals. Because it is clear that doctors who have treated a person can also be indiscriminate if they get paid well enough. It doesn't have to be the electronic system, it's more than enough people who have provided information without it being because of the electronic system. However, the whole purpose of our efforts to take a more national approach to ICT is to ensure, among other things, that ICT is implemented at national level. the protection of privacy in it. And then we have to make sure that we investigate and persecute what's happening to unsolicited snooping, whether it's in a paper box or in an electronic file.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e474	Tove Karoline Knutsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e477	First, I would like to say that I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it is very important that we have now received patient information in electronic records. I am very pleased that the government parties and the Workers' Party have gradually agreed on this. Then I'm very worried about what the Riksrevision has now revealed. I remember very well that the Prime Minister, when, as the Chair of the Right, of the Health Committee, was very concerned about the security of this journal information: encryption, anonymisation, access control, authorisation – very important measures. Is it possible for the Prime Minister to say how this will now be followed up by health businesses? And what control mechanism does the government intend to put in place to really see that this is being implemented, even before you have the entire ICT structure in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e486	In the big news that came in 2012–2013, some of the directions are related to this. We strengthen it with an increased focus on privacy and information security. It is particularly important to have good health records that provide good services, but it is also important to have traceability in them, so that you can always see if someone has been in there. I also believe that it should be fully possible for each patient to follow up on who has been in and looked at his report. In fact, the citizen's perspective will be one of the most important things to have in it so that you can see who has actually been inside and seen, and then you can take up the question of why you've done it. But now we're in the process, and we're making sure that privacy and information security are greater than what we've had in the past, because it wasn't safe with the old system. It was actually very much like creamed by journals and other things in the past, which were easily accessible, so when it comes to the belief that there is less certainty that things become electronic, I think we actually get more security in the years that come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e493	Kjersti Top – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e496	In addition to the fact that the Riksrevision revealed that there is no control over who is snorting in journals, it was also found that many healthcare professionals lack complete analysis of health and vulnerability and emergency plans for ICT, water and electricity. The management rarely follows up this security work, according to the National Audit Office. 9 out of 19 health professionals surveyed are missing a ROS analysis, which is more than half. 13 health care professionals are missing one or more emergency plans. The national audit concludes that healthcare professionals do not plan for it unexpectedly. That's what I think is very alarming, because if there's someone we should be able to trust when something unexpected happens, it's the hospital. So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister what the government will do with this serious information.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e501	I think it was a very timely reminder from the National Audit Office that not everything is as good in terms of preparedness in the Norwegian health service. One of the reasons I'm saying it's timely is that the health service was the best part of the evaluation after July 22, and in many ways it has been much of what we've looked at in the holes that have appeared since July 22, and what is documented in the Gjørv Commission's report. The fact that so many do not have emergency plans is a menacing signal. That means we have to make sure there are contingency plans everywhere. Now it is enough that there are plans everywhere for extra power supply and other, so we are a little surprised that there should be some big case, because it is an emergency power unit, but it is clear that the emergency power units do not carry as much as a proper network will carry. Vulnerability overall in the network in Norway is important, including for this type of emergency planning. But it's a good reminder that we have to make sure that everyone has emergency plans, and that's what the government has to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e506	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e509	Human beings depend entirely on nature’s lack of food, medicine and clothing – and on a range of services such as pollination and the climate system. We simply cannot live without a rich natural disaster. The leaders of the world have therefore seen a global goal of halting the loss of natural disasters – which is now historically high – and ensuring that we have robust ecosystems in place by 2020. We're going to follow the measurements up here in Norway. One of the most important measures in this area is voluntary forest protection, which was a high priority and strongly strengthened in recent years by the Red-Green Government. All this knows the Prime Minister, because in an interview shortly before the election, she said: ‘In the forest, 60 per cent of the species live in Norway and about half of the endangered species. We must therefore step up forest protection through several agreements with forest owners on voluntary protection." And on the other hand, ‘An environmental policy needs to be reinvigorated. Under today's government, classical nature protection has been downgraded. Forest protection is slow, even though forest owners have offered large areas.’ After these statements from the Solberg opposition leader, it's no wonder that those who work on these questions had expectations. There was a common demand from forest owners, industry and environmental organisations – in an alliance – to strengthen it. For example, in Norsk Industri, Marit Holtermann Foss says: ‘Increasing forest protection is a prerequisite for the industry to deliver sustainable forest products.’ Now we know the result. The proposal for the 2015 State budget supports forest cuts of two-thirds, from 336 million. DKr this year down to 121 million. kr next year. My question to the Prime Minister, who used the word "down-priority" about the red-green nature conservation effort, is, how will she describe the government's forest protection budget, and what will she do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e534	Until the summer of 2012, there was a long and large queue linked to agreements on forest protection that were not realised due to a lack of money in the budgets. The budgets were then significantly increased to take down that queue. When we reviewed the budget for this year, we saw that we had actually closed the queue that had been worked out, and we had come down to the level of growth that was there before the queue and the decline started. With our current budget, voluntary protection will also be possible in some areas in 2015, but the activity of voluntary protection work will be reduced. And a state authority for the protection of forests owned by the State Forest and the Information Society's fund will also contribute to forest protection in the future. Every budget has to set priorities, and we have made a clear prioritisation of new climate action within our budget. I know that someone is not satisfied with the number of climate action measures, but there is a significant increase in climate action and the money we spend on this. So it's going to be a bigger priority than what we were able to do on the forest this time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e543	It is true that there had been a build-up of a queue until 2012, and that a strong strengthening of forest protection was absolutely necessary, but also that there was a further escalation plan. But it is not true that that queue is broken. On the other hand, there is a series of projects in queue. I just need to show that the Forest Geyser Association confirms it. Recently, they post a message where they write: ‘The 121 million will mainly go to State Forest as a substitute for forest already protected as nature reserves.’ And on the other hand, ‘With reduced appropriations, we will receive a new queue of negotiated offers.’ So we've got a new queue, not strength. This forms part of a pattern of reduced nature conservation effort, scooters, no new protection area and deprioritisation of priority species in the budget. Let me now ask the Prime Minister in a slightly different way: What are the two- or three-large nature conservation efforts that the government has now presented in the budget or elsewhere? Give a few–three examples of large conservation efforts to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e562	We have, as I said, made a priority of climate action, we have made a priority of research and development in this budget, and we have made a priority of a number of other measures that we believe – in the transition we are facing – have been necessary. It is not right that we do not have money for new protection decisions. That's about. Forty-five million. kr of the appropriations for next year for new forest-related protection decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e568	There will be follow-up questions – first the Audun Light Bin.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e571	So the answer to Mr. Vegar Solhjell's question is that the Prime Minister cannot mention a single nature protection measure of importance that her government has implemented. That's interesting, but I want to give her an opportunity to correct the impression. For the diversity of nature, Norwegian fjords are also present, and the Environment Directorate recently presented an assessment showing that environmental considerations have a negative impact on mining activities in Fördefjorden. Environmental experts show that mining waste can have a significant negative impact on endangered species and the entire fjord ecosystem. This is a matter that comes to the government's table. There's a lot of local resistance. Earlier this year I was in Wevring and met fish farmers, local people and environmental experts who are opposed to mining waste. I wonder if the Prime Minister can promise that she too will go to Sunnfjord and meet the local people's own experts, the breeders, those who live by fjords, before the government makes its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e578	The President feels that this may be a little bit on the side of the main question, but the Prime Minister is of course welcome to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e581	This is a simple matter to be addressed in the Ministry of the Environment after the various recordings and investigations that have been made, and I would think it was very wrong that I should comment on a single matter and a single reading from the Parliamentary Chair. I often want to go to Sunnfjord, it's a great place to be, but if I'm going to go into a procedure that's under the constitutional responsibility of the climate and environment minister, I don't think I'm going to promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e588	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e591	As the representative Solhjell pointed out, the protection of forests is one of the most important measures to preserve Norwegian natural diversity. Norway has undertaken an international commitment to halt the loss of Norwegian natural diversity by 2020, and therefore the government has announced an action plan on natural diversity to be presented in 2015. Given that this will be the most important document that this government will produce for Norwegian nature protection during this period, and given the uncertainty that has now arisen about what measures the government actually wants to use to preserve Norwegian biomangfold, the question will be: Will the government present this document as a big message to the Stortinget, so that we can have a broad debate on Norwegian biomangfolding policy for many years to come in the Stortinget and a majority that is broad and solid, behind that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e596	It is right that we should draw up an action plan, and we have started work on it. At the same time, we have a review of what is a practice related to the Nature Diversity Act, to look at how we develop it. An important part of the basis for an action plan is to look at whether there are areas where we should adjust the way we work, or whether there are areas where we feel that we want to strengthen the measures we have today. Whether it should come to Stortinget or not, the government has not taken a decision. We are a little early in our work, and I am concerned that action plans should lead to action, not only necessarily to more discussions. There will be an assessment that the government will have to make when you see what we have of the content of that action plan. But I am absolutely sure that the theme of the action plan will be properly covered in documents for Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can take part in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e603	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e606	Forest conservation is important, and there are government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party another process, which we are going to discuss. However, as important as ensuring natural diversity is to ensure that the country does not grow again. Taking care of the cultural landscape and also having a care for the protected areas that we have requires considerable effort. A paradox is that Oslo is actually the most biodiversity municipality in the country – and it's not in the forest; it's in the city, because it's also important to look at the diversity and the green areas that are there. Then my question is: will the government follow up and see biodiversity as important when setting up urban planning policies, when looking at it against agriculture? Is it also important to take care of the protected areas that we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e613	With regard to the work mentioned in the previous round of questions, namely the action plan, we also need to assess some strategic steps that need to be taken when drawing up an action plan. We need to see where there is the greatest risk that there will be less diversity — where there are processes that contribute to it — and it may well be that it is in cities or that it is in agriculture. I can't give the fasit answers to this right now, because we're at the beginning of a process where we have to map where it's most important to take a bigger grip. But we're for a good urban environment, we're for there to be more green lungs, we're for there to be areas where people can have recreational opportunities to be and to take care of biodiversity. I don't think it ends with any contradiction, but I think it's a little early to say exactly where we're going to put the most force, because I think that must be the areas that are perceived as the most vulnerable, after the mapping we have. What has happened after the Biodiversity Act came into force is that we have been surveyed many more areas and got a much better overview of where the danger areas are and where it actually goes quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e620	Åsmund Gruver August – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e624	It is relatively alarming that the Prime Minister is unable to come up with a single case where the government has taken initiatives on the nature protection side. I'm going to admit that I didn't have the big expectations of what the government was going to do on nature protection, but one area there were expectations was forest protection. The Prime Minister and the whole Right Group said a year ago that what the Red-Green Government did was too small, and that they wanted to bet more. Environmental policy spokesperson in the Right has admitted that they have really met themselves in the door when they have now gone too short of two thirds, versus what the red-green government granted last year. The problem with the Prime Minister's argument is that she does not find anyone who agrees, so my question is: Does the Prime Minister think that environmental organisations are wrong, that the forest organisations are wrong, that the industry is wrong, when they say there is a great need for continued increased funds for forest protection in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e633	Any government is going to be in the situation that those who want more money on the state budget, will never fully agree with what the government is doing in some areas. It is a government's responsibility to weigh various factors. In this budget, we have taken a major step forward for the major migration challenges in Norway. It is about ensuring that we have significantly increased research and development, significantly increased road development, significant increases in collective and rail development, and we have ensured that we get better framework conditions in terms of competitiveness for Norwegian enterprises. There will be many areas for every government, as I have said. Organisations and others with a particular desire for some budget appropriations mean that they have not received enough, that there is not enough money. The priority elections actually have to do a government, and we have done so with the budget we have submitted, just as I suppose the red-greens also did the priorities when they were put, and received criticisms in various areas from stakeholder organisations, from business or from others, because they were not there. It's not a truth witness to what a budget is, that there are people who are dissatisfied. The important question is: is it a good budget for the future? That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e640	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e643	Now we just heard the Prime Minister explain that the government has carried out its priorities in the government budget. When one reads the proposed state budget, I think there are few outside government offices – if any – that have managed to find the climate profile in it. I am also not alone in sketching a change in climate-negative direction. In fact, the government's proposals for taxes in the transport sector stimulate more use of fossil energy. This occurs at a time when the experience of converting the car charges suggests a counter-action. Tax incentives for more climate friendly cars, which occurred the last few years before the government change, have been a success. Average emissions from new cars have fallen significantly. We are many who are amazed at the priorities of the government, what they have chosen, and at the fact that already a year ago they cancelled the green shift in the transport sector, a sector in which climate policy must undoubtedly be strengthened. In the 2015 state budget proposal, the government has reinforced its refusal to use charges in a green shift by reducing the taxes on petrol and diesel, while not strengthening the distortion of charges towards a more climate friendly car fleet. If the government is serious about wanting to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, why does the government fail to use effective instruments? And why won't the government continue a political line where the fees are twisting in a more climate-friendly direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e652	This government has implemented a number of reinforcements related to the climate agreement in areas where the red-green parties said no to the opposition when we sat and negotiated with them. We are increasing the Climate Technology Fund. We're increasing it from 50 billion. So it's going to be 62.75 billion. kr in 2016. That means we're going to have 2 billion. kr each year in annual returns to contribute to the future transformation. The Eco-Technology Scheme is increasing. We are increasing and converting energy savings at home, a measure that also the red-greens said no when we sat and negotiated with them, and so it is going to be a tax deduction. We are promoting proposals for more favourable depreciation rules for wind power, a proposal such as the previous government, the red-green parties, said no to the time we were doing it. We have railway investments that increase by 9 pst. We have new powers to participate internationally to revitalise a work on CCS, which has been significantly slowed down by stopping Mongstad. We have more money associated with the technology center. I could continue to frame up in many other areas, such as: That we're now up to 3 billion. NOK to rainforest, we give more money to biogas, we phase out the firing with oil faster than it was planned, and we've made sure Norfund got more money. The bill is quite long on climate action, and I am a little surprised to hear the Workers' Party try to claim itself in one area, namely the car charges, as the only important thing. I understand that punishing people is the most important working party knows about climate policy. We have done this together with the two parties that have supported the formation of this government, and said we should have a green tax commission that comes back with proposals on the green shift. We therefore believe that it would be unnatural to take out the green shift when we have simultaneously started a separate tax commission to look at it. It comes, but there are also measures that we did not hear when the Workers' Party put power in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e659	We are well aware of the government's guise list, but we are also well aware that the measures proposed in the State budget are most likely not to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. I'll just do one more example. When the Prime Minister now mentions the Climate Technology Fund, it would really be interesting to ask how one now strengthens the action space of Enova towards climate action based on what has been presented. But I'm not going to ask about it and keep track of the transport sector, because one may disagree about much in the climate debate, but everyone agrees that the consumption of petrol and diesel in transport is not climate friendly. It is therefore difficult for me to understand that the government is actually proposing to reduce the tax on petrol and diesel. Does the Prime Minister, although this is a single measure, see that this is a proposal with a poor climate profile? Why has the government chosen to ignore climate policy in the transport sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e664	We have not ignored climate policy in the transport sector. As I say, we have a job with a green tax commission. We've contributed 9 pst. increase on the railway. Within this NTP process, we are now halfway into what was promised in the NTP on the railways with the draft budget that we have presented. We have provided more money related to expansion, for example. the planning of the Fornebuban and the urban environment packages, so there are many of the things that go right into the transport sector. But just as regards the tax question, it is linked to the Green Tax Commission, and it is not crucial whether there are ten cents more or less on petrol and diesel in terms of climate emissions. It's the big grips that are taken. I would like to be allowed to answer the question about Enova. This means that Enova can in future enter into commitments over many years, because they know that the money is now locked against them, which means that companies can know that they will also receive money in 2016, 2017 and 2018. It is considerably more than the previous government could contribute, because they would not strengthen this as strongly as this government has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e671	It opens up one follow-up question – Anna Ljunggren.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e674	Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft, in a reply to the Stortingen on the budget, has stated that for the government, the main instruments of climate policy are ‘non-appropriations, but cross-sectoral instruments such as the pricing of greenhouse gas emissions through taxes or allowances’. And on the other hand, ‘It is not possible to estimate the amount of emission reductions these instruments provide for each year, but over time the pricing of emissions results in significant shifts towards lower emissions.’ What cross-sectoral instruments – through taxes – has the government put in place or strengthened to date?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e686	I would like to refer to what I have said earlier. We have reduced a green tax commission that has been commissioned to go through this shift. It would be unnatural for us to pre-empt everything the Green Tax Commission is going to bring – then it wouldn't have been necessary to reduce it. The decrease decided last year to increase the mineral oil charge. We did not choose to increase the electricity charge as much as the Workers' Party wanted to do, because we would take into account households with poor finances. We chose in the negotiations we had in Stortinget, rather something that went more directly on emissions. Then, among other things, increased the mineral oil charge, as an example of what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e693	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e697	It was a pleasant surprise to get rid of the main questions. On Monday, the government presented its new north-eastern strategy, which includes: sums up with an elegant drawing how they view the situation in the northern regions. Here is a box where it says ‘Dimble climate warning’ and another box where it says ‘Large petroleum potential’, 43 pst. of the undiscovered oil and gas resources are on the Norwegian base. At the same time, we know that the oil price on the international markets falls, that there will be major redundancies in the Norwegian oil sector, and that we are seeing more and more signals that what is called carbon bubble is becoming a reality that affects Norwegian oil business. But the government's big effort in this budget is, no matter how the Council of State and the Prime Minister turn around and turn it around, more oil activities – it is made perfectly clear both by her and by the Minister of Oil and Energy and other government councils. At the same time, we have today received a look-up with Jeremy Oppenheim, who led the report called the UN's New Climate Economy Report, which the Prime Minister and many in the government have frequently referred to as an interesting document, and he pointed out that he is surprised at the lack of commitment in Norway to the new sustainable industries that we will live on in the future. The question to the Prime Minister is whether this new north-eastern strategy is not just an example of an ever-increasing misstatement that characterises Norway, where we focus more on carbon bubble and less on the industries we're going to live with, and are beginning to be the only ones in the world who don't see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e708	I believe we have put forward a government budget that responds to the migration challenges for Norwegian society. We have done so through a strong commitment to infrastructure, better framework conditions for investment in the business world of the future, we have done so in the form of high-level research and development, of 4.2 pst. growth, and on innovation measures and others. So it's a budget for the transition that comes in other areas, in business other than carbon-oriented, that's going to be important. That's how next year it's going to be 8 pst. Decreases in investment in the oil sector — and there are no incentives — and next year there will actually be a slight negative impact on growth in Norway. So we're really going to be less oil dependent, and then it's important to have the speed in the other industries. So I don't agree that we're not going to deal with it, but the general, big framework conditions will help us both get medical technology that can be leading in the future, renewable technology that can be leading in the future, and we're not going to pick each of the areas that we're going to have to have more legs to stand on. But at the same time it is important to say that in North Norway oil and gas activities will continue to be one of the push factors for it, because oil and gas will be needed in the years to come, and more of the activities in Norway will come to the north. Among other things, we have proposed more money, as I mentioned earlier, for environmental technologies and climate technologies to help companies have less emissions at home. One of the things we're doing is trying to meet those from renewable industries who say that the difference in depreciation rates between Sweden and Norway causes us to get less renewable energy in Norway. That is why we have said that we should have other depreciation rules attached to it. And then it's an important and perhaps a little under-communicated part of working up the entire renewable industry: one has to have the energy out of Norway and down to Europe to make export money on it, and that's where we've also said yes to building the two major cables to the United Kingdom and Germany, respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e713	It is not so surprising that a government from the Right and the Advance Party is actually placing massive amounts of oil on it – ten times as much on extending the oil industry as on other industries. It's a fact. What's surprising is that the government puts so much emphasis on talking it away. I don't quite understand the point of when the realities are so obvious. When we talk about the North Norway bet, we have been given a very interesting signal on the kind of priorities that the government underlines, namely that the rapporteur at Røst, where cod has lived for a thousand years, now believes that what to live on in Røst in the future is the stumps of Norwegian oil business. Isn't this a risk profile that worries the Prime Minister, when the northern part of the North Region is actually getting more and more focused on the industry that the Prime Minister himself says we have to get out of?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e720	What I'm saying is that we don't have to get out of oil and gas business, but we have to have more legs to stand on in the future, because the effect on the Norwegian economy in total is going to be less oil and gas business, but it's going to be bigger in North Norway. I understand the rapporteur at Røst who wants something else to live on when the population falls. There are many politicians who have said that you have to live on tourism, you have to live on all sorts of other things, but in reality at local level you see that getting your full-year jobs, getting your youth back, is a challenge. It's just traveling to Hammerfest and seeing the evolution there. The city went from being a decaying city in the 1990s with a high degree of pessimism to being an optimistic, forward-looking city today. We're probably in disagreement, the Green Party and the government, about whether we're going to need oil and gas in the future. All scenarios for energy projections in the future say we're also going to need oil and gas, and we believe that we're a good supplier of oil and gas production in a more sustainable way than many others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e727	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e739	There will be some changes to the questionnaire, and in this context the President will refer to the electronic overview made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Helga Pedersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, who is directly responsible. Question 2, from the representative of Kjell-Idar Juvik to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 5, from the representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be taken up by the representative of Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e756	This question, from the representative of Helga Pedersen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, has been transferred to the Minister for Economic Affairs who is directing the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e759	«The government has recently submitted to the consultation proposals to remove the county councils as partners of Innovation Norway and to remove the provision for the company to have regional governments. What is the reason why the government is so busy reducing the influence of the county municipality on regional development, while the Stortinget is suggested to decide in spring 2015 on the division of tasks between the state, the municipality and the regional population elected level?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e771	This year, Innovation Norway celebrates its 10th anniversary. Many experiences have been gained in these years and very much works well, but it is time to make a thorough and comprehensive review of both the organisation and the instruments Innovation Norway has available. It is important to strengthen Norwegian innovation and competitiveness in business. The consultation on changes to the Law on Innovation Norway is part of that work. Innovation Norway currently has one main board of directors, 15 regional boards, 20 owners and 42 sponsors, together with 130 members of the board of directors who are in charge of the business. This has to be organised in a simpler way. In addition, there are indications in the law and through the letters of assignment that affect the company's premises of action in various ways. Innovation The Norwegian Governing Council should be given the opportunity to adapt activities more closely to the needs of the business community, the company's objectives and the appropriations. It calls for the removal of the provision of regional governments from the law. We also assess how we can simplify the tasks of Innovation Norway. Other areas in which we can usefully consider changing are the ownership model. It requires resources both for the owners and for the company. The ownership structure ultimately means that matters must be anchored and dealt with in 20 political bodies. It presents challenges in the operational management of ownership. For this reason, I have asked the hearing bodies to assess three alternative ownership structures: firstly, the ownership structure of the day, secondly, the ownership of the state alone, and thirdly, ownership of the state and two counties. I must stress that the government does not propose to change the purpose of Innovation Norway. The company should continue to be the national and county authorities’ instrument for realising value-creating business development throughout the country. The provisions on participation in regional partnerships and regional presence are also maintained as at present. This will therefore be a good opportunity to discuss when we promote a legislative proposal with proposals for amendments in spring 2015. So we're looking at the business and at the most effective instrument operator, and then it's logical with two runs, as we do with Innovation Norway, and the way the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation does with the division of tasks. The review we are now doing provides a good basis for also discussing the division of tasks when we come to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e792	I thank you for your answer. I believe that there is a cross-political consensus that Innovation Norway is a very important tool in active business policy. From the Workers' Party's side, we would like to take action to make Innovation Norway an even better tool, including simplifications. Back to the main question. Both the Right Party and the Advance Party opted for the removal of the county. That's not the majority for on the Stortinget. The government also recognizes that. But after the High Court Municipal Policy Conference earlier this fall, the message was that the Right would now retain the county council, but empty it for tasks. When the government now opens up to the removal of the county municipality as the owner of Innovation Norway and to remove the regional governments, as well as to cut the regional development funds of the county municipality, we can see that the depopulation has begun. But the question, especially relating to Innovation Norway, is whether the government has any professional reason to do this, in addition to ideological resistance to having a regionally elected level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e801	As I say, Innovation Norway will be the instrument of the state and county municipalities. The objective of Innovation Norway has not changed and the regional anchoring has not changed. We are very dependent on the fact that Innovation Norway acts as our main tool player across the country. Let there be no doubt about it. Today’s structure is demanding for local offices. They spend a lot of resources on them. I think that those resources could be better used on the customers. And in many ways today's structure invites the Oslo office to become specialists, while the regional offices become more branches because we've determined in detail how the structure should be. I trust that the Board of Directors and the Administration of Innovation Norway can set up the organisation so that it becomes the most effective instrument operator possible. That's what we're very dependent on if we're going to boost innovation and competitiveness across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e810	In fact, I don't think I got an answer to what was my question. The Minister of Economic Affairs says that the anchoring between Innovation Norway and the county councils is important, but it is clearly removed if the county councils are both to be removed as owners and, in addition, to remove the regional governments. There has also been uncertainty about the future of local offices. A very important part of our active industrial policy and Innovation Norway’s success is that it has local knowledge, proximity to businesses, and that Innovation Norway’s instruments can be combined with the instruments that private banks and public operators around the country possess, not least the tools that counties have currently employed. The government will also slow down the regional instruments, which have been evaluated and proved to have a good impact. Then I would like to repeat the question: does the government have a knowledge-based approach to the proposals it has now made, or does this only stem from ideological opposition to the regionally elected level and belief in business neutrality?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e819	So this is about making the organisation that is our most important actor in the whole country more effective. With 130 members – 15 governing members plus one – it is easy to imagine that there could be a basis for a review. That's the base of the review we're now doing. So the purpose is the same, the importance of cooperation with the county councils is the same, but we're not dependent on 15 regional governments that we get feedback that we don't have decision-making powers. I think there's other ways to make this more effective, and that's the background for the review. We also carry out a review of the instruments, because when we got to the government offices, we asked what effect the instruments have. It's hard to answer. We are now implementing a thorough research project to find the innovation impact of the instruments, precisely to be able to strengthen those who work and change those who do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e837	This issue has been postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e844	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In an area south of Oslo near Gjersrud-Stensrud, Bjørndal, Sofiemyr and Tårnåsen, it is planned to accommodate 20,000 dwellings. This is the largest residential potential in Oslo. However, the project is in crisis because solutions for public transport are lacking. During the construction of Follobanen, which passes this area, a large mountain hall must be blasted out in Åland. Will the Council of State investigate whether this mountain hall can be extended to an Åland station where trains to pick up passengers use sidings, while the others can run straight through without losing time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e853	I thank you for the question. The idea that was taken up from Bohemia is offensive, but it is far from new. It was actually assessed under the previous government, by the then Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. The previous government thought that this was not a good solution, considering all, because there is a project that would in that case delay the entire Folloban project for many years and cost it with billions of dollars. For me, it is important that we complete the Follobane project and use the money effectively, so that we reach a much larger audience in Akershus and Østfold and bind them closer to Oslo. We also have to look at the possibilities of expanding larger residential areas around Oslo, but in the municipal sub-plan we see that this area is going to be connected to the T-Bahn. There are also bus opportunities, and then you also have to look at the solutions you work with locally and not just imagine that you need to link even more things to Follobanen – to the enormous costs and delays that will result. The previous government assessed this in the same way, and it is interesting when the representative Bøhler in another case starts to counter the decisions his own party made while they sat and ruled the country. Folloban is the largest railway project in Norway in recent times. A 22 km long tunnel will be built, which is dimensioned for speeds up to 250 km/h. Adding a stop inside a hall is easier said than done, for the area is not regulated for railway station today. That means we must have started those processes again. You won't just be able to put a platform there and let everything else stay the same. The tunnel had to be built between 5 and 6 km further in order to provide room for stopping trains there. It goes without saying that when the speed of the trains is initially 250 km/h, you lose a lot of time to slow down, start up and by train standing there. That's why you have to make sure that the local areas around Oslo are served with what's local collective traffic there, and that's a mix of bus, tram and T-Bahn. And then you have to make sure that what's a little bit more remote, which is the point of intercity betting, comes to Oslo faster, and so you connect the living and working regions better. I feel that in the Municipality of Oslo, the potential for expanding more areas is seen, and that this is a good cooperation with Akershus, but that the solutions that are best taken from the local averages are also chosen, instead of destroying the Follobane project. The cost framework for this has been laid down. The size has already adopted this solution, which was also presented by the previous government. I do not intend to start a rematch on this, but I fully agree with what is the purpose of the question: When you build new residential areas in and around Oslo, you have to make sure that public transport is also in place, so that people can travel to and from and from and do not become dependent on a car.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e872	Thanks for the answer. I would like to say that I was somewhat disappointed by the approach, because State Secretary Hoksrud of the Ministry of Transport said to the Evening Post this summer, when he was asked about the same thing – namely, about the Åland station and the possibility of admitting it to a station, as well as blasting out a mountain hall there – that this sounds quite right and very exciting. He also said that everyone who wants to live in the Oslo area should have more and more people living in the city. "We can't do anything about the kilometers, but travel time can be reduced by collective solutions," said Hoksrud. He also said, "I see that there are challenges here, but if it turns out that this is such a good idea as it immediately sounds, then we can't let it stop us from looking at this." One thing that the Progress Party has often said is that one will let reason take precedence over bureaucracy and various leaderships laid down. I have respected that earlier, and therefore I am disappointed that you are not willing to look into how the project of using this mountain hall can be used further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e886	Bård Hoksrud was quite right that this is an exciting arrangement that we have to look at – that is why we have done it. We want to develop better collective solutions, and therefore this government has done what the previous government didn't do: we have said that the state should contribute 50 pst. on the major public infrastructure lifts in the four largest cities. There was something with which the previous government and the previous government parties have been a bit behind in the national transport plan, but which this government is now implementing. That's why we were in the planning page on Fornebubanen, and that's why we're working actively on the bus, road, city track and the like in the other cities. And we think it's exciting to look at the Ahus track when one also mentions it from Oslo as one of the potentials. But I record that we are now being challenged by those who said no to these projects when they themselves crashed, and who suddenly are disappointed that their no remains in this particular matter. It's because when we look at the costs and delays it would mean for the intercity project, we think it makes more sense to look beyond T-track solutions than to destroy the Folloban project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e893	I want to focus on the matter now instead of discussing the past, since I only have one minute. T-railway development is much more expensive and much slower – an estimated 50 minutes in travel time from there to Oslo, while the train can take 7, 8 or 9 minutes. And the T-Bahn expansion will be much further ahead in time. In any case, a mountain hall with life-saving routes and life-saver platforms, with the possibility of getting out of Åland in case of accidents or fires occurring in the tunnel, has the chance to make a runway solution into Oslo for three times as many as it lives in Ski – which is the station to which you are going to travel, i.e. 20,000 dwellings and 60,000 people – and you have the chance to park several thousand cars that are currently waiting in line for Oslo from about that area. Then I think it's strange – if you're going to follow up the Storting's demand that all the growth in passenger transport towards the big cities should be taken collectively – that you can't be more open to going into such a solution, rather than just making estimates in many years, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e902	These are facts that were known under the previous government. Jan Boehler was part of the foundation of the previous government. The decisions taken by the Stortinget have suggested that you should not have a stop there – simply because it would degrade and exacerbate the Follobane project. It is possible – and it is going to happen – to develop other collective services, just to cover this area. That's the sum of this, how to offer the best possible collective offer to Oslo, Akershus and the whole of the East in relation to the Great Oslo region, which is the most important. I think this is a little strange: once you have planned Follobanen, and we inherit years of planning, it means to reverse this by delaying the whole progress. Then it is not unreasonable to point out that when the Workers' Party has been laying the foundations for this project, you can not just say that you should not look at history – if something the Workers' Party has actually laid the foundation for. We're going to do the best possible intercity bet for all the parties, and then we're going to stimulate community development locally, through the urban environment agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e917	‘On the websites of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, it is stated that genetically modified maize types T25 and NK603 have been ‘in practice approved for placing on the market in Norway for several years’, because they are approved in the EU. Are there several of the genetically modified plants that are managed in the Environment Directorate, the government considers ‘in practice acceptable’, and which GMOs are involved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e924	This case is about two issues. One is what kind of policy we want to pursue in the GMO field. The second is of a more technical nature and is concerned with the understanding of the provisions of the genetic engineering law following a legal interpretation. Today, we have a strict law to ensure that the use of genetically modified organisms is carried out in an ethically and socially sound manner, in accordance with the principle of sustainable development and without adverse health and environmental impacts. I understand that the representative, Mr Solhjell, and I agree that this is a good and important law, which should continue to underpin our policy. What I have done is to explain how, after our best legal interpretation, we believe that the law of genetic engineering must be understood. It follows from the Genetics Act that no authorisation is required in Norway for the placing on the market of GMOs authorised in another EEA State under the so-called Postponement Directive. However, the Norwegian authorities may prohibit or restrict the placing on the market if they consider that it presents a risk to health or the environment or otherwise is contrary to the purpose of the law. It is best assessed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment that if Norway does not adopt a ban on the placing on the market of a GMO after the product has been authorised in the EU under the Post-release Directive, Norway is bound by EU decisions. I can also inform you in this context that this understanding is not completely new. It is also far on the road of kgl. Res. of 14 December 2012, promoted by the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Solhell. Here's what it says: ‘No authorisation is required in Norway for the deliberate release of GMOs authorised in another EEA State under Directive 2001/18/EC. However, the Norwegian authorities may prohibit or restrict the placing on the market if they consider that it presents a risk to health or the environment or otherwise is contrary to the purpose of the law.’;» There are currently 11 GMOs authorised under this Directive. These are obtained from the GMO register of the European Commission. Of these, a decision was taken on the Norwegian ban for one GMO, namely the rape line GT73. The prohibition is provided for in the Regulation on the prohibition of genetically modified products. The Ministry is working on clarifying the legal status of the other GMOs authorised in the EU. We would like, among other things: look at GMOs that have been authorised in the EU under different legislation. For some GMOs, new approval decisions have been adopted in accordance with another legislation, while the original authorisation decisions following the Postponement Directive have been repealed. The legal status of each GMO must therefore be carefully assessed. This applies, for example: maize line T25, which has now been re-approved in the EU in accordance with another legislation not incorporated into the EEA Agreement and which is therefore currently not directly applicable in Norway. It is therefore important to clarify the actual legal situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e946	One can get tired of less! But at least let's just do two things: the one thing is that it's very good that we have a good gene technology law in Norway, which is going to last. The second is that I have had a happy review of the last time with the Royal Resolution of 14 December 2012, and it was quite correctly quoted from it – which otherwise was about rape and not corn. However, the essence of the debate is not whether it is automatic for a GMO to be approved in Norway, but what is the legal status while it is being assessed. Because there is no doubt about it, as I understand, that we have a right to say no to them, as we have done. My best understanding is that while a GMO is being evaluated by the government and the trade unions, it cannot be introduced. So it's not like there's a yes then, and then you're going to consider the question. That is what I would like the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment to see, whether she can understand, whether she thinks they are acceptable, even if they are now being assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e958	There is an impression that we have actively approved GMOs. It's wrong, we haven't approved any GMOs. Then we might agree on that, and we have a common responsibility to clarify it. So it's also: how long is'reasonable time'? Taking into account the adaptation text of the EEA Agreement and the purpose of the review competence under the Genetic Technology Act, it may be stated that Norway must be able to rely on a certain period of procedure before the EU decision is legally binding in Norway. However, as long as the cases are under consideration, it can therefore be argued that GMOs are not allowed to be placed on the market. But how long will it be for? The issues we are also talking about here are approved in 1998 and 2001, and I wonder why the previous government did not take such a ban within ‘reasonable time’. We believe that as long as this is not done, it is to be regarded as valid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e965	I also think that 15 years is a long time in politics. But what is extremely important to clarify is whether it is such that a case is automatically approved because it is approved in an EU country. This is not how I understand it, and now I understand that the Minister for Climate and Environment does not understand it this way either, but that she agrees that when a case is considered, it is a time when the case is not automatically approved. This is very important, because there is a part of such a product for evaluation now, and it is important that it is a real possibility to make that decision – without being pre-approved. So I have noticed that both the Food Authority and other agencies have understood this so that the corn line in question was not approved because she was being assessed. But the most important thing in my view is that the Minister for Climate and Environment can now confirm, which I hope she can, that the matters that are now under assessment – and which have not been for the same time – are actually not acceptable, but that the government has a real possibility... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e974	I hope we can agree on that, that we now have to clean this up, and that we get a sense of it. We're now working on getting an overview as soon as possible. I have a good hope that it will not last too long until this is done, and then we will also pass on that overview to the Food Authority and other departments, in accordance with the law, as soon as it is ready. And I hope we now get cleaned up in this which has become too many a rather unbridled debate over the past few weeks, in line with what is'reasonable time' and what we have interpreted the legislation after. But I sincerely believe that we have a common responsibility to clean this up, and I will take my share of the responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e985	This question, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be raised by the representative Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e988	‘Do the Council of State consider that the production of maize with genetically modified maize lines T25 and NK603 has positive societal benefits and contributes to sustainable development, as required by the Law on Genetics for their marketing in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e993	As demonstrated by my reply to the representative, Solhjell, the Genetic Technology Act does not require authorisation in Norway for the placing on the market of GMOs authorised in another EEA State under the so-called Postponement Directive. However, the Norwegian authorities may prohibit or restrict the placing on the market if they consider that it presents a risk to health or the environment or otherwise is contrary to the purpose of the law. In this assessment, ethics, social benefits and sustainable development are factors to be taken into account in addition to health and environmental considerations. However, in my view, the law cannot be understood to require that EU-approved GMOs have a positive social benefit and contribute to sustainable development in order to be traded in Norway. The current Directorate for Nature Management, now the Environment Directorate, gave its final assessments for the T25 and NK603 maize lines in 2008. Following an overall assessment, based on the opinions of several agencies, the Directorate considered that there was no special health or environmental risk by using the maize lines in Norway. The Directorate recommended that they be allowed in Norway. At the same time, the Directorate assessed that there was no information on societal benefits, ethics or the contribution of products to sustainable development that should be given decisive importance by a final Norwegian decision. However, the Ministry of the Environment considered that the applicants had not provided sufficient information to adequately elucidate sustainability, societal benefits and ethics. The Ministry therefore asked the manufacturers Monsanto and Bayer CropScience for additional information in 2009 but has so far not received the relevant information. There have now been 13 and 16 years since the acceptance of the maize varieties in the EU, without any bans under the genetic engineering law. It is, then, the Ministry's best estimate that the genetic engineering law is such that GMOs must be regarded as authorised in Norway. The Directorate-General for the Environment and Food Safety have found that there is little or no increased risk to health and the environment of products, nor have they been requested on the market. I can therefore not see that there is now no immediate need to review the recommendation from the Environment Directorate. I also refer to my previous response, where I informed that maize line T25 is no longer approved under the EU Postponement Directive. However, we will follow up the matter with a new assessment by the Department, including the following: the criteria for ethics, social benefits and sustainable development will be included. If the department finds that the products are problematic under the genetic engineering law, a ban must be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1005	I thank you for your answer. There has been a demanding process, and it is quite special that in such a political issue as the use of GMOs, the legal conditions lie as a well-kept secret among bureaucrats in the Ministry of the Environment. That legal situation is also controversial. But to the content of the matter, which I think is more relevant to discuss now: the question is whether a wanted GMO maize in Norway. Is there a desirable development to have? This is, of course, corn made to tolerate more spraying. In a time when we're busy with clean and safe food, it's the wrong direction to go. My question is: does the Council of State think that we need genetically modified maize in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1010	The debate in the last few weeks has been more legal than political, whether we need GMOs or not. It has also created the impression that we have approved GMOs. We don't. We have not approved anyone, we have only told how we have interpreted the genetic engineering law and the EEA agreement. Now I think the most important thing is to create clarity in what has been a false security for too many years. I also realize that many people are confused by what has happened, and that's why we're now working on getting good overviews in place. We have not taken a decision on the policy in what has now been asked about here, but we are currently looking at the issues and also assessing the legal status of each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1015	I am glad that someone will decide again on the content of the matter. However, I find that the Council of State in this notice in the Official Journal of Bergen, where this case and the legal situation first arose, went a long way in deciding, by pointing out that genetically modified maize did not involve an «unacceptable risk». That is to say, there is a risk here, but the risk has been assessed as acceptable. For the centre party, it is important in these issues that the precautionary principle weighs very heavily. We need to look at the needs we have for these products in Norway. My question is then: will the Council of State emphasise the precautionary principle in this matter and ensure that we still have a GMO-free Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1024	I understand that there has been a lot of confusion about this matter over the past few weeks. What I meant to say was how we had interpreted the genetic engineering law, and how the EEA agreement is to be understood. I also referred to what the Environment Directorate recommended to the previous government, without the previous government doing anything about the matter. We are now working to get an overview as quickly as possible, to clean this up, and also to communicate that overview to the Food Authority and others, in accordance with the law. We are doing a good job of looking at these matters. So here I think, as I also said to the representative, Solhjell, that we now have a responsibility to clean up what's legal in this, and what's policy. This government has not taken any active position for the use of GMOs. Now we are clearing up this, also because of the debate that has taken place, where representatives of the previous government have not exactly contributed to clearing up the facts about this – so we have some joint responsibility on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1037	‘The hospital can be closed before Christmas, according to a notice in Varden on 4 November 2014. The Minister of Health and Health has approved the Development Plan for the Hospital Telemark HF, which states that the operations in the medical department at Rjukan will continue until June 2015. In addition, the Minister of Health and Health has requested that a new and up-to-date pre-hospital emergency plan be submitted in good time prior to the resolution of the medical emergency response. Is such a plan approved, and will the Council of State permit the hospital of Rjukan to be laid down before Christmas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1044	The Hospital Telemark is converting operations to Rjukan. They state that challenges may arise against the completion of the hospital emergency function and bedlinen on 20 June 2015, as some employees are now applying for new jobs. It is positive if employees get new jobs in their community. The same applies to conversions ensuring new outpatient activity and day-time activity at Rjukan hospital. The disappearance of competence from the hospital may mean that it may be necessary to use the Notodden hospital more gradually by June 2015. However, I have noticed that the rapporteur in Tinn has said that they do not want to drain the hospital for resources until tasks are moved from the hospital, and will take this into account in their recruitment processes. That's good, and I'm assuming that the Hospital Telemark and Tinn municipality will have a cooperation here that ensures an appropriate transfer of competence. I have been informed that from 1 October, the Notodden hospital has been equipped with emergency facilities and beds in order to be able to repair Rjukan hospitals in the event of operational challenges, and the ambulance emergency services in the municipality of Tinn have been strengthened. I am informed that the Hospital Telemark has updated the emergency response and prehospital services plan. The Management Board approved this October 29th, but at the same time asked for the plan to be updated and renewed as necessary. The hospital Telemark will continue to offer a specialist healthcare service at Rjukan. However, I believe it is positive if employees get other jobs, especially if this is in the local health service in Tin and surrounding municipalities. I would like to stress that the Hospital Telemark is responsible for ensuring that the service offer in Rjukan Hospital is safe and sound at all times, and that the hospital takes care to prioritize tasks agreed with the municipality until the municipality can take over. The Hospital Telemark informs that the clinic management, in cooperation with its professionally responsible superior at Rjukan Hospital, evaluates the situation daily and before each weekend, i.e. see if the necessary competence is available on Rjukan so that patients can be accepted on that day – or not, so that patients may have to be sent to the Notodden. If the situation with regard to doctors and nurses does not meet the minimum requirements adopted by the Hospital Telemark, patients will be redirected to the Notodden Hospital. The hospital in Notodden has been rigged from 1 October this year to receive patients from the municipality of Tinn and the neighbouring municipalities of Vinje and Tokke. From the same date, the emergency response has also been increased according to the development plan. At the same time, I assume that the Hospital Telemark does what is possible to maintain the offer until 20 June 2015, so that the conversion takes place in line with the timetables set out in the development plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1055	Thanks for the answer. The Minister for Health said in the debate on 17 June: ‘I also hope that this decision will start again and strengthen cooperation between the Hospital Telemark and the Municipality of Tinn [[...]] Now the experience shows that this has not happened. Tinn Municipality has read in the newspapers that the Hospital Telemark provided hospital space for rent. They had to read in the newspapers after what I found out that the hospital could risk being laid down before Christmas. A closure that has been advanced is not just about adding them, but about the people having a decision that they can comply with, that the emergency response will be there by June. Does the Minister of Health agree that this is a very unfortunate process?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1066	I think it's quite obvious that a municipality that cooperates with a hospital should not need to read the paper to follow up on what's going on. But I also believe that representatives of big business involved in this matter should perhaps base the information on a broader basis than on some representatives or on what is in the newspapers. There are regular meetings with the municipality and the hospital Telemark, where one helps keep the municipality up to date on changes. A new meeting has been agreed with the municipality of Tinn and the hospital Telemark on 27 November 2014, and there are also good meetings with the head of the municipality and the head of the clinic. The Hospital Telemark informs both the local and regional authorities about changes that affect patient logistics and patient services, and Health South-East has also taken responsibility for contributing to the dialogue between the municipality and the Hospital Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1073	Thanks for the answer. 14 days ago I mentioned that the municipality of Tinn had to read in the newspapers or on Doffin that the hospital area was rented out. At least then the government council Anundsen said he was sorry for what had happened – that it was a mistake, and that was not supposed to happen. I thought that was good. I had expected a little more humility from the Minister of Health, too, because if you talk to people – including those in the municipality – they say that what has happened here is not good. If it is stated that the municipality was informed in good time that the hospital was to be laid down before Christmas, why does the councilman go out in the newspapers and call it a breach of promises? So I want to ask the Minister of Health: can Tinn municipality from now on expect the rest of what is in the development plan, among other things. if decentralised services will be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1084	If it was the incident related to equipment and the premises – which the representative has addressed in a previous question – that was the background to the previous question, you have received an answer to the previous question. It is clear that the way it was handled was not acceptable. There was also the Minister of Justice – on my behalf – in Stortinget. I understand that this has been cleared up, that a person now has a good dialogue, that there is going to be a new meeting on 27 November, that the management of Health South-East is also contributing to the good dialogue between the Hospital Telemark and the Municipality of Tinn, and that one also explores the possibility of having activities in the premises of Rjukan hospitals that become vacant – whether they are extended municipal activities, or for example. are private actors entering there with activities. We're positive about this, and it also contributes to Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1095	At least we don't have needy problems in the main hall today. The question is: ‘Today, pigs are routinely castrated in the pig industry, despite the animal welfare law’s ban on amputation. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 8 asked the Government to ‘come back to the Storting as soon as possible with an assessment of whether the ban on pig castration should be imposed when an authorised vaccine is available which could prevent the development of the odour of pigs’. [[2007-2008]] Now the vaccine Improvac is approved by the Swedish Medical Products Agency and the experience is good. Are state councils now assessing the prohibition of surgical castration?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1104	I would like to point out that, after the budgetary position from which the representative refers, a new law on animal welfare has been adopted. In Ot.prp. No 15 for 2008-2009, About the Animal Welfare Act, the issue of pig castration was discussed. The Ministry stated in the proposal that it was an objective to avoid routine surgical castration of piglets. However, castration was considered necessary until satisfactory alternatives were available to limit the smell and taste of the robbery. The Economic and Social Committee did not comment on the assessments made by the Ministry in examining this proposition. I am not aware that any country has imposed a ban on surgical castration of pigs. In this context, I would also like to point out that Norway, probably as the only country in the world, has a requirement for the use of both necessary pain relief and stunning during castration and a requirement for the intervention to be carried out by a veterinarian. These requirements are made to ensure animal welfare. State Medicines Agency authorised in August 2009 the medicinal product Improvac. This means that the natural production of sex hormones, and thus also the development of the smell of robbery, is hampered. The authorisation of the medicinal product means that it meets safety and quality requirements. Today, in many countries, including Norway, most male pigs are castrated surgically to avoid the smell of the meat. In some countries castration of pigs is less common, either because the pigs are slaughtered before they mature or because consumers have greater acceptance of the smell of sex. Improvac is currently being used to a very limited extent, both in Norway and in other European countries. Testing of the anti-harvesting medicinal product in this country has shown that there are still challenges related to routine use. In order to ensure good effectiveness, good practices, good cooperation with veterinarians and a good overview of animals and pools are assumed. There are currently insufficient control methods to identify animals that have not been treated according to the recommendations. As a result, the meat industry continues to face a challenge in ensuring that meat with a odor of robbery does not enter the market. According to the meat industry, the medicinal product Improvac is used for castration of only approx. 0.65 pst. of the slaughter piglets in Norway. I have met with the meat industry on 10 November to challenge the industry to test out this medicinal product to a greater extent in order to gain a wider knowledge of the benefits and disadvantages of this form of castration. In meeting with the meat industry, we also agreed to set up a working group with participants from the department and industry to develop a plan to reduce the extent of surgical castration. The Group shall submit its proposals by 1 February 2015. I would also like to strengthen research efforts, both related to the use of the Improvac medicinal product and to see if other measures, such as breeding, can help to eliminate the need for surgical castration. The goal, as stated in the Proposition on the Animal Welfare Act, must be that we can phase out routine surgical castration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1130	Surgical castration — or physical castration — of 800,000 piglets every year is an animal welfare problem, and it is entirely contrary to the spirit and letter of the Animal Welfare Act. Anyone who has heard a piglets being castrated has heard the essence of the sound of screaming like a stung pig and will be absolutely convinced that anesthetic etc. is not enough to prevent a very painful and traumatic experience for a piglets. And so this is not necessary. In a number of other contexts, the Council of State has shown considerable scope for action in order to implement what is a political priority for her and the government. I therefore look with some amazement at the eagerness in this case to put down a sample that might perhaps solve a problem that has already been solved. So I encourage the Council of State once again to answer: if you want to do something more than drop a sample that you hope will come to a pleasant conclusion, and for example. use political effort immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1137	I am concerned to phase this into a proper way and know that we will get the best results. In this case, there are several motives. One has first of all a pharmaceutical company called Orion Pharma, which will make quite a lot of money out of banning surgical castration. One also has producers who depend on the market, who depend on the quality of the meat sold, so that we consumers continue to eat it. We have consumers, who are dependent on getting good goods, and we have the requirement of animal welfare, where we already have the strictest rules for the surgical castration of piglets. As I said in my post, I'm concerned that we're going to get there that we're going to end the surgical castration of piglets, but we have to take this step by step and make sure that what we're doing is for the best for all parties interested in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1142	Then I find that in the case of animal welfare for piglets, the actioniveness of the government and the Council of State is significantly behind the actioniveness of building up food soils, and other significant issues. I hope, at least, that the government will take this along and assess whether faster and more effective measures will not be put in place to improve animal welfare for 800,000 piglets when it is in fact in line with the government’s own wish and – as far as I know – the policy of the State Council’s own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1147	I have the same goal as the representative Rasmus Hansson, but I think we have to do this in a responsible way. Everything we do is to build on the fact that we're going to do it in a responsible way, and here I think there's a need for more research, there needs to be a greater degree of experimentation. Once we've just tried this on 0.65 pst. Of the pigs, it's a pretty small number. That's why I have taken the initiative to get the number up and do research and work to get to where we agree that we should, that we can phase out surgical castration of pigs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1156	‘The government proposes to cut 22.7 million. crowns in the appropriations for 2015 public schools, as they say, are to be taken from the short-term activities. Last week, the Minister of Knowledge, in the magazine of Rome, asserted that this is a cut in the «support for the short-term courses of the rich». Can the Council of State elaborate on what he means by this, and does he really believe that it is the rich who use the offer of public high schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1163	The government has great respect for the work done at the national higher education institutions. It is a school team that has a 150-year tradition in Norway and is an important complement to the regular education system. Universities have, among other things: – yes, not exactly delivered a wife to me, but at least contributed to making my wife who she is. It was a fine contribution, too, private. Universities are unbounded by the curriculum, and they're unqualified. On the long-term courses, which are at the heart of the activities of higher education institutions, students live at boarding school. It is often the first year of students outside the childhood home and becomes too many a year of maturity. It is the long-term courses that are the main activities of the higher education institutions, and in the draft budget we propose to continue the allocation for that purpose through a total of around 750 million. kr to higher education institutions. Short courses are different and the government proposes to reduce the allocation of this type of course. This proposal is justified on a professional basis. In this context, I point out that the credit card courses are not part of the historical mission of the national colleges. Short courses are also a small part of the total activity of higher education institutions — in 2013 students on short courses accounted for 7.4 pst. of the seniors. A number of short-term courses have leisure topics, and the main emphasis of those participating in short-term courses is within the 40-70 age group. This is a continuous resource-intensive group, which should be able to pay a slightly higher proportion of its own than today. The representative, Flakne, refers to my comment that the government is proposing to cut the allocation to the «short-term courses for the rich». I have also seen that some national colleges believe that the government's proposed reduction will lead to the national colleges becoming 'only for the rich'. I guess that's the corresponding upresis language usage. That we're spending 750 million. in the higher education institutions, as well as providing support for the stay there of the students, should ensure that the higher education institutions are an opportunity for the many, not just for the few. My opinion is aimed precisely at the fact that the main weight of those affected by the cut proposal is good adults who should be able to pay something more to participate in the short course. I again stress that the government will ensure a wide range of higher education courses, and that no reduction is proposed in the allocation of what is the core task of the school team, namely the long-term courses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1176	I thank the Minister of Knowledge for the answer. If the cut proposed by the government is implemented that way, it does not only hit the most expensive groups in society; no, the cut hits all the short-term students the same amount. Let me explain with some examples. The grant for the summer course for mentally retarded workers at Hurdal Works is halved. Other short courses that are included are céliaki courses for young people and their families, course on the prevention of sexual abuse, course on eating disorders, writing courses and many, many more courses — yes, up to several hundred. I didn't feel that the Council of State gave me some answer to the previous question, so then I ask this question again: is it these groups of state councils think they're rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1187	I answered the representative's questions by pointing out that the short courses mainly have users aged between 40 and 70. In a country like Norway, where most people have relatively good advice — and most of those who have relatively good advice are in this group — I believe it is just right. If you look in the budget section, the government specifies that it wants to screen some of the offers for, for example. mentally retarded, so as to be protected. But it's not that you have to stop short courses even if the state support to them is reduced. That just means that the proportion gets a little bit higher. This is primarily a source of income for higher education institutions — they will continue to have — but our task when we give priority must be to support the core of the activities of higher education institutions, and that is the long-term courses. That's what the national colleges are known for and will continue to be known for the next 150 years as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1194	I thank you again for the answer. The removal of the card courses came very surprising to all of us, especially because there have been no investigations of this. It has not been consulted either. We don't know how many students this is going to hit. We also do not know what kind of basis the proposal is based on. It's a flat cut, the money's taken from everyone. That means people's colleges that don't have short courses are also hit. Does the Minister of Knowledge see that the cut will also hit folk colleges that do not have short courses, or is this new to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1205	First of all, when you put in a budget, you put in the amounts, and then you send out cases in consultation in the usual way. Secondly, it's not like we're proposing to remove the card rates. It's the national colleges that decide whether or not to have a short course. What we're proposing is to reduce support for short-term courses, and then we reduce support for higher education institutions accordingly, but the core of the activities of higher education institutions, i.e. the long-term courses, will not be affected. So we're going to spend 750 million. kr in the national colleges, and that is not included in the support you get to go there. In addition, you will also receive additional credits for higher education — you will actually get as many additional credits to go to higher education as you get to take first-time service. So that the higher education institutions will in some way be down-prioritized in Norwegian society after this draft budget, I can't see.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1214	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-12.ana.ud646e1226	There is no record. As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
