ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e26	The representative of Kent Gudmundsen shall apply for a care permit from 2 April to 10 April. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the Vara of the state of Troms, Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen is present and will take the seat. The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e43	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Line Henriette Hämdal, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Anders Tyvand and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to prevent unwanted pregnancy and reduce abortions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e48	The representative Iselin Nybø will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e51	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Pál Farstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal on several teachers with a doctorate as part of the career paths in school. On behalf of the representatives of Abid Q. Raja, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a specific level of competence to reduce the proportion of non-qualified graduates in primary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e58	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e61	On behalf of the representatives of Pål Farstad, Iselin Nybø, Ketil Kjenseth and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a plan for the distribution of government jobs and competences across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e66	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e69	On behalf of the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative on a climate budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e75	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e78	On behalf of the representative Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to update the investment plans in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e83	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e95	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Thorhild Widvey, Tord Lien and Ine M. Eriksen Soreide will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Terje Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e102	My question goes to the oil and energy minister, because on Monday this week we were presented with part two of the fifth main report of the climate panel. Since 2005, we have now received a doubling of relevant scientific literature and the new interim report is based on over 12 000 scientific publications. Therefore, any doubt about climate change must be removed. We know that the effects of climate change are already here. People, communities and ecosystems around the world are hit. Climate change leads to lower food production, reduced food safety, eradication of species, drought and flooding, while increasing the shortage of fresh water. Until the middle of our century, climate change will reinforce the already existing health problems. This will particularly affect the poor countries, but also at home the consequences will be serious. Among other things, we must: expect more rain and rising sea levels, increasing the risk of flooding and slippage, and damage from increased floods and moisture and rat damage is becoming more common. So we're now talking about our near future. It's in the one our children and grandchildren are going to grow up. With today’s emissions trends it is expected that in 2100 it will be impossible to make normal outdoor activities in many parts of the world in parts of the year. This is just a little bit of what we now actually know. The seriousness is significant and the consequences dramatic. But there are also opportunities if it is done now, because I assume that the Council of State agrees that it is a considerable responsibility for Norway to achieve the stated climate objectives of the Storting. So what will the Council of State do within its remit to ensure that Norway's emissions actually go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e117	Let me first be very clear that the government is of course working to follow up the decisions of Stortinget, in many areas, among others. in the climate agreement. As regards the interim report to which the representative of Aasland refers, it deals with the consequences of climate change. It is up to my department to be responsible for the work at increased risk of flooding and slipping. In the case of floods, sprawls, streams and small rivers with a steep fall, land use and waterside protection measures need to be adapted to new climatic challenges. It is the NVE that has the operational authority in this field. It is their job to help local authorities and society with their skills and resources for this work. So my department also works very much to correct the climate challenges in the future. Among other things, we have Taken over a carbon capture work, which was put on ice, where we need to develop a new strategy to get it reestablished. We are constantly working on increasing renewable energy production. We are working on replacing fossil energy – among others. by phase-out of oil-fires — with renewable energy. The Ministry is working on research and technology development, and not least we manage a strict regime for emissions from the socket. At the same time, we know that the continued production of Norwegian cap gas contributes to reducing the CO2 intensity of the European electricity mix.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e129	I would like to thank you for your answer, and it is gratifying to note that the Minister for Oil and Energy agrees that he has a great responsibility for the Norwegian emissions within his portfolio, for on 7 March the Environment Directorate launched its report on the professional basis for the further development of national and international climate policy. Overall, there is now a gap of 8 million tonnes. From what we can read, it's approx. 2 million tonnes linked to the oil and energy minister's portfolio. The electrification of the Utsira area is essential in this context. These include: a report today shows that the cost of action is down to 40 kr per tonne in reduced CO2 emissions. This is significant under today's CO2 diet, and it is believed that the report is robust. Will the Council of State contribute to the clarification of figures, and will the Council of State also take responsibility for the clarification of whether the Utsira region is electrified by the treatment of the Johan Sverdrup field, first phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e144	I am aware that Energy Norway has asked a consulting company to assess the costs of electrifying the Utsira height. Of course, I do not have the opportunity to comment on this report here and now, but I have no reason to doubt the decision-making basis that the commercial operators on the base – Statoil, Petoro, Maersk, Lundin and the Norwegian oil company – have come up with. That there's reason to question it, we don't have any information to suggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e149	It opens for follow-up questions – first Eigil Knutsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e152	It is alarming that the Council of State shows such a passive attitude as to whether it will contribute to the area electrification of the Utsira Height. This hall has actually repeatedly expressed such a wish. There is considerable uncertainty about the costs of this area electricisation. The reports crack enormously. The State's own professional body, the Oil Directorate, has also expressed its views, but the Council of State has refused the Stortinget's transparency. For us who are concerned with the stable and good exploitation of our common resources on a Norwegian base, this is very regrettable. We depend on electrifying whether we will achieve our future climate goals, even in the next decade. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State whether he can confirm, if so, whether he wants to work for an area electrification of the height of Utzira, and whether he believes that there are areas on the base that are more suitable for area electrification than the height of Utzira.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e161	It is big business and government that lays the framework for the business on a Norwegian base. Companies are responsible for carrying out activities on the base, whether within the scope of exploration, expansion or operation. This also applies to conditions related to power solutions for expansion. The climate agreement showed that land-based power was to be assessed for new developments on the base, and that the government would follow up on the ongoing investigations and aim to provide the southern part of the Utzira Height with power from land. The condition for the use of power from land is that there are no regional imbalances on land and that consideration of the cost of action and the diversity of nature is taken into account. It is clear from the climate agreement that climate policy needs to be designed to maximise the emission reduction of efforts and that action costs and resource use are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e168	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e171	I am glad that the Council of State does not reject the fact that he wants an area solution at the Utsira height, because this field, the petroleum sector, is responsible for 26 pst. of the total CO2 emissions in Norway. This means that it is essential to put in place electrification and use power instead of highly polluting gas power plants on those platforms where it is possible to achieve it. Today, Novatek presented a report – and Novatek is the same company that the Directorate of Oil used when calculating the cost of action in 2012. Not surprisingly, the report concluded that the cost of action is significantly lower than Statoil provided. Novatek also estimated the cost of being much lower in 2012. My conclusion here is really two things. One is that it shows that it's absolutely crucial for the Storting that the facts come out, and that the numbers are open, so that we can discuss it on the right number basis. The second is that the report concludes that overall expansion, at once, is eight times cheaper than doing it in two rounds. That really makes sense. Will the Council of State ensure that one gets an investigation of the best solution, so that one can get an extension and ensure electrification of the entire Utsira height in one phase?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e184	First, let me say that the concept that is now chosen for Sverdrup means that the large Sverdrup field, which is sovereignly the largest proportion of the Utzira height, will be powered from land from the start of production. How to cover the rest of the power use at the Utsira height is not currently decided. I am, as I have said, aware that Energy Norway has got a consultant's office to prepare its own action costs for power from land to Utsira Height. I don't know the numbers in this work, but I have, as I said at the outset, no reason to doubt on the basis of which the industrial operators, Statoil, Petoro, Lundin, the Norwegian oil company and Maersk, have based the concept choice for Sverdrup on. So, in line with practice, the Oil Directorate is now going through the results of the concept study. This will also apply to the energy solution. This is done to establish whether there are conditions that require further clarification before the deployment of a deployment and operational plan to the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e193	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e196	In the oral Question Time of 12 February this year, I challenged the Minister for Climate and Environment to mention one concrete climate action proposed by the government for the benefit of the climate, when one ignores the decisions that have been achieved following budgetary negotiations on the Storting. I did not get an answer to that. The Minister of Oil and Energy belongs to the party that holds most of the climate skeptics. In a survey in Stavanger Aftenblad, presented on March 31, only 23 p.m. by the Advance Party voters in Rogaland that they believed climate change was man-made. With what is behind, it is natural to challenge the Minister of Oil and Energy whether he can mention one concrete measure that he and his government on their own initiative have implemented in their time in the government offices for the benefit of the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e203	Now we are quite close to the responsibility of another State Council, namely the overall climate policy. We work in my department every day with increased renewable energy production, developing a CCS strategy that the red-green government spent 7 billion. kr on without getting it on a good track. We are working on energy efficiency improvement on a Norwegian base, and we are working on research and development of new and more climate-friendly technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e208	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e211	I record that the Council of State says that he has no reason to doubt the figures that he has been presented about the height of Utsira. Nevertheless, a new report from Energy Norway has been presented today, which shows a huge gap in the cost of action – from 40 kroner to well over 1000 kroner – that has previously been presented. Another thing that the report shows is that it is far more profitable to do an electrification right away, instead of doing it in two stages. And even though the Council of State as of now has no reason to doubt the figures he has, does this mean that the Council of State is willing to review this again, and that the Council of State is willing to also make a new assessment and press for a solution with electrification now, in the first round?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e218	It is big business and government that lays the framework for the business on the base. The companies are responsible for carrying out the activity on the socket. This also applies in relation to the power solution for a build-up. The main means of limiting CO2 emissions from the socket is the high cost of emissions that companies face through the European ETS and the CO2 tax – today, in total, of approximately 450 kr per tonne. The CO2 tax on the socket was significantly increased in the climate agreement, and it was assumed that the use of the instrument will help to increase the use of power from countries in new developments on the Norwegian base. So, as I have also said, the Oil Directorate has contributed as part of the design selection work at the Utsira Height, with recordings related to the technical and economic assumptions used by the operator in its cost of action, and will now review the results of the concept study.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e236	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e239	It would be tempting to say that we have the world's most naive state council if it is such that he intends to base his own assessments on figures from an industry that wants to avoid imposition. It would be somewhat like leaving the tobacco industry’s figures for smoking cancer to the basis of the Minister of Health’s assessment of the same cancer risk. This is where we have to put emission reductions in the oil sector, and then it's obvious that the Utsira height is about not the best, so at least one of the very best measures we could get in place with full electrification. The Minister for Oil and Energy is responsible for greenhouse gas emissions from the oil sector. I would like to ask him: is the Minister for Oil and Energy going to make sure that the oil industry's emissions go down by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e248	The representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, was both part of the parliamentary basis and a member of the previous government, who presented a climate agreement that allowed climate policy to be organised in such a way as to maximise the emission reduction of the economic efforts being made. Action costs and resource use were important in that Communication and for the policy developed under the Red-Green Government. When reducing greenhouse gas emissions globally, correct use of resources is important. If not, it will be even more demanding to achieve our overall climate objectives. The climate agreement also points out that carbon pricing will be our main instrument in the fight against global climate change. The activity on the base has been facing a high cost of emissions for more than 20 years through its own high CO2 tax rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e258	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e262	The UN climate report we just received tells us that we are not really on the way to these two degrees that everyone likes to talk about – we are on the way to catastrophic four degrees and effects that no up-and-coming politicians can really take responsibility for being part of. That's why it's opening the Outsir Height with the Sverdrup field, which is going to have a lifetime of fifty years, nothing but grossly irresponsible. We are in a situation where we are now discussing the dimension of the screws on the platform, while in a year or two – or half – we are going to discuss whether we want to open this field. That is why the question is: Will the Council of State address the new proposals that have come from some of the strong Norwegian marine wind environments in this country, which have proposed to look at a sea wind solution related to the Aussirah High, because, if it is developed, the Aussirhögda offers an infrastructure, a cable to land, etc., which makes this the best way to achieve a practical Norwegian sea wind development?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e269	Sea wind can once and for all become an important part of a renewable energy supply in Europe. Authorities are committed to facilitating through their efforts to provide areas for the establishment of sea wind, to facilitating demonstration projects and to contributing to the research and development of sea wind, with the aim of delivering a more economically sustainable project. As I have sometimes said today, our task – the government and the government – is to create the framework for the activity. This type of decision will probably have to be with the operators. So I think maybe, realistically speaking, that having a good concept for this in time for decision in January/February may seem a little ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e276	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e279	Where's the edge of the ice in the Barents Sea? That's the question to the Minister of Oil and Energy. As we know, the Arctic seas can break across the Barents Sea and all the way into the Finnmark coast, as it did in 2003. The management plan for the Barents Sea defines the edge of the ice right where the sea was at its maximum prevalence in 2003. The edge of the ice is a particularly biologically rich area and is identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable in the management plan. Therefore, the management plan clearly states that oil operations should not be started at the ice edge. In February, Minister of Oil and Energy Tord Lien submitted proposals for blocks to be published in the 23rd concession round, proposing 20 of the 61 total exploration blocks allocated in the northernmost parts of the Barents Sea south-east, where the sea was located in 2003. Last Thursday, last week, the Directorate-General for the Environment’s opinion came to the 23rd concession round, where the 28 northernmost blocks of the Barents Sea south-east are strongly discouraged. I quote: ‘The Environment Directorate believes that a more thorough professional process is necessary to define a limit to the ice edge that also covers more extreme years. This should be done through the cross-sectoral work on the technical basis of the management plans.’;» This is a clear speech from the government's own environmental authority. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State wait for the northernmost blocks to be declared until there is an environmental definition of the ice edge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e293	Last summer, a large majority of Stortinget joined the Barents Sea in the south-east opening up to petroleum activities. This decision took place on the basis of a broad impact assessment and a geological survey — a process in which the views of various trade unions, including the Environment Directorate, emerged and were part of the decision-making base of the Storting and the Government. Through the work of the 23rd concession round, the decision of the Storting is operationalised. The Government has taken into account the processing of the message by the Storting, including the scope for exploration in the area. With the proposed scope for exploration activity, the risk of damage to the environmental values following the ice edge would be near zero. Findings in the area will otherwise be developed only if it is done properly. I'm sure this will be possible. The hearing of the call for proposals for the 23rd round is carried out in order to determine whether new material information was available which was not known when the Storting last took a decision on petroleum activities in the areas concerned. The existence of new material information has not been demonstrated to date. Based on the incoming consultation opinions, this will be considered as part of the further work of the 23rd concession round.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e302	I thank you for your reply to the Council of State. But I'm a little bit curious about the precautionary principle that we've agreed on, and it's also going to apply to the answer we've received from the Environment Directorate. The cooperation agreement between our parties states that there should be no oil business at the ice edge, and then we must know and agree on where that ice edge goes. The government party on the right was very clear on this when the big news about the opening of the Barents Sea south-east was dealt with in Stortinget less than a year ago. The opinion reads in a comment from the members of the Committee from the Right: ‘These members therefore assume that no petroleum activity is to be started in the ice edge area. These members consider it unfortunate that the government bases different definitions on the edge of the ice, and believe that it is necessary to clarify what is the professional definition.» Will the Council of State ensure that the Storting is kept informed of the work on defining the environmental definition of the ice edge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e314	We have had challenges on a Norwegian base several places that have been solved in interaction between operators, suppliers and Norwegian authorities. That will also be the case for the northern sea areas. Then, further exploration of areas in the north is a key element of government policy to facilitate a long-term, positive development in Norway's largest industry, but also for North Norway, which sees great opportunities around the resources available in this marine area. It is, of course, right that further work should be done on professional issues in these areas. Obviously, the Storting will be kept informed about. But as I started by saying, this is a follow-up to what a large majority on the Stortinge decided last summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e323	It opens for follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e326	The Council of State is so right that there has been a known issue and that this debate is not new. One year ago, when the Stortinge dealt with the matter, the clear majority decided, as the Council of State indicated, that there should be no petroleum activity at the ice edge. At the same time, Stortinget said that this did not prevent the whole of the Barents Sea from opening south east. The problem, as Andersen Eide underlined, is that the ice edge – or ice – was in the middle of the whole area not later than 10 years ago. That means that the Storting has actually said that the edge of the ice goes straight through the area, while one opens it. Therefore, one must either have a discussion about whether it is okay to drill and have oil operations where the ice can be, or one must say that the ice should be the stopper where the ice can actually go. Therefore, my question to the Council of State is: Wouldn't it be better to have a professional agreement on the definition of where the ice edge goes first, and then decide whether to open areas afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e335	Providing new areas for Norwegian oil and gas production is important for maintaining activity on Norwegian soil, not least there is great optimism and positiveness about these possibilities in North Norway. I'm very happy about that. It is not as simple as the representative of Ropstad wants it to. It's a condition from Stortinget, which we'll of course follow up, that there should be no exploration closer than a distance of 50 km from the ice edge. That consideration has been given to this work. It is the great majority of the Biggest who are at the root of the work we are now doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e342	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e346	It's interesting to hear that there's obviously a gap between the government and the Christian People's Party in where the ice is going. I believe most here in the Chamber relate to the decision the Stortinget made in the opening of the Barents Sea south-east. There was a joint committee that wrote in the vote: ‘The Committee has noted that there are particularly north of the opening area, towards the ice edge and far south of the opening area towards land, that there is the greatest environmental impact.’ So the Storting has taken on board that there are environmental consequences. What I then want to ask the Council of State is: how will he work to strengthen oil protection in the north when we now see that the petroleum industry is moving northwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e358	Thank you for a good question. Now, when we see that Goliath is on his way to our northern region, we will also see that it will be followed by a preparedness capacity in the area that the area has in no way had before. It is that we have important, good demands – we have had it for many decades – that oil activity should be followed by oil protection capabilities both on land and offshore. So, of course, it will also be maintained in the new northern regions of the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e365	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e368	It is interesting to hear that the Questionnaire is used for a discussion between the government and its parliamentary basis on how to interpret the Cooperation Agreement. This can carry a command that someone is out there carrying cracking concession blocks. In Stavanger Aftenblad, February 24, Christian People's Party Rigmor Andersen Eide said the following about the 23rd concession round and the ice edge: ‘This is contrary to the Cooperation Agreement.’ And on the other hand, ‘The 20 blocks furthest north must therefore be deleted.’ And again: ‘Tord Lien should not be in doubt as to the definition of the edge of the ice on which the cooperation agreement was based.’ My question is: Is the Minister for Oil and Energy in doubt as to what definition of the ice edge underpinning the cooperation agreement, and does the Council of State see that the uncertainty that the majority of parties are now spreading about 23rd concession rounds is neither beneficial to the environment nor beneficial to the petroleum industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e390	I believe that the decision taken last summer by the Stortinget is a sensible decision that takes account of all these considerations, also taking into account the edge of the ice. We also have this out at the hearing to see if new, important information has been received that we do not yet believe we have received. How the Christian People's Party perceives the question of the ice edge is a question you have to ask to the Christian People's Party. We're following up on what the majority decided last summer, and that's what the Council of State has to deal with. I think maybe if the Council of State had chosen to do something other than what the Bigholding had decided, this questioning might have a different character.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e395	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e398	Here it is clear that there is a need for some clearing, because the council says he is dealing with and believes that there was a reasonable decision Stortinget had taken about the ice edge. At the same time, we have a cooperation agreement where we are four parties that say we should not have oil activity within what is defined as the edge of the ice. There is clearly a disagreement with the Council of State – at least with the Left – about what should be the definition. Now the third concession round is out of consultation. We think that's okay, then you get hearing opinions. But now when it goes over, you have to agree on what the definition of the edge of the ice should be, and the fields defined to be within the edge of the ice have to be taken out of the concession round. Is the Council of State prepared to have a process to implement and define the edge of ice based on the cooperation agreement between the four parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e405	When it came to the opening of the Barents Sea south-east, there was a definition of how to deal with ice problems at the opening. It was known for all the lots in Stortinget last summer and last autumn, and it is that there should be no exploration in oil-bearing layers closer than 50 km from the ice edge. So it is that the expansion of the size that we are going to see in the Barents Sea south-east has to be presented to the Stortinget. Of course, it's some of the things that it's natural for the government to discuss with both the Left and the Christian People's Party, but also with the rest of the Storing. That case should – as I said – be dealt with in Stortinget before any extension can take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e412	Johnny Ingebrichtsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e415	There is now a very good fishing on the historic Norwegian-Arctic cod stock in the Barents Sea. It's fat on weights, which is the key species throughout the Barents Sea. Without it, birds, fish and marine mammals die all over the sea. The growing range of weights is the nutrient-rich cold seawater around the edge of the ice, which we know can vary very widely from year to year, and which is influenced by how much north wind it is during winter. We also know that there are three months of darkness there, and there are ice-cold winter storms icing down the vessels. I wonder if the Council of State, which, like me, has played in the cold seawater in the spring of the Barents Sea, dares to think of the hazardous idea of oil drilling up against the variable ice edge, the food barrel of the key species throughout the Barents Sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e422	I think that was a good question, although it was not a question that suggested that the representative was a member of one of the parties that made this proposal last summer. I am happy in cod, and I am happy in both the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea, where I have grown up. Therefore, I believe it is very important that we have and should have strict environmental requirements for petroleum activity on all parts of Norwegian soil, and not least in the Barents Sea south-east, which has also been the basis of the Stortinge decision, and on which we base our work immediately. These are challenges – parts of the Barents Sea are very similar to the rest of the Norwegian Sea, while other parts of the Barents Sea are new challenges that need to be addressed jointly by operators and authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e432	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e435	It's quite scary to hear the self-constructed chaos about what the ice edge is that is both between the cooperation parties in the government and also partly in the Stortinget. The Nordics, and not least the Nordics, have known what the ice edge is for hundreds of years, and it is very well scientifically defined in the Barents Sea and Lofoten management plan. What characterises the ice edge is that it is a biologically high-productive and highly vulnerable area that is now heading north due to climate change and thus by definition under higher ecological stress than ever before. It clearly triggers the term ‘before var’. The question to the Council of State is: can he guarantee that the precautionary principle will be the overall consideration for the assessment of oil activities and other activities in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e442	As the representative Hansson points out, the Nordics know the ice well, among other things. because we've been doing commercial business in the ice for centuries. Then, with the limits proposed for exploration activity, the risk of damaging the environmental values that follow the edge of the ice would be almost zero. Findings in the area that can be developed – it can only be developed if it can be demonstrated that it can be done properly – are questions that the Stortinget will be asked before any expansion. Then I repeat what I said instead: it is good and correct that we have strict safety and environmental requirements for all work on Norwegian base – also in the Barents Sea. Of course we still want that. There is nothing to hide that in parts of the Barents Sea there are some challenges that we need to work on in order to find sound solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e451	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e454	My main question is to the Minister of Oil and Energy. An important climate action is to increase the production of renewable energy. Norway has good assumptions for this. The previous government put in place an agreement with Sweden on an electricity certificate to provide 26.4 TWh with new renewable energy until 2020. In addition, a great deal of work has been done to put in place wind power concessions. Former oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe was last week honoured for his efforts in the field of wind power, and in particular the concession treatment for the wind power organisation NORWEA. The current Council of State has also granted a concession to the Tellnes wind farm. Concessions that are not being developed provide little energy. The low electricity price and the low certification price are now causing little wind power to expand in Norway. We see that the expansion comes in Sweden. The wind power industry in Norway is rightly concerned. There are two issues that are particularly critical. The first is that there was a clear expectation when the electricity licence market was established that half of the expansion would come in Norway. The second is that the Swedish projects being expanded are less effective than the Norwegian projects, which are not being expanded. My question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is: Is the Council of State comfortable with this development, and what will he do for Norway to get its share of the renewable investment, and that one will not end up with only Norwegian consumers getting the bill for projects that are being developed in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e469	That's right, as the representative Pollestad says, in recent years too, there has been an increase in the commitment to get the concessions out quickly. It's important. It's a work we've taken over from the red-green, and we're continuing to bet on it. Concessions are essential. We didn't take over an equally tidy living when it came to network access. There are still many renewable projects that require network access in order to be realised. Work on the central network line between Ørskog and Fardal is an example of this. There's a big job to do. The government is also working to put in place foreign tables to contribute to energy security work with Europe, but also to lower CO2 emissions in Europe and a more stable and predictable electricity price in the Norwegian market. Then, together with the Swedish authorities, we have now started work on the Green Certificate Control Station, which will have landed by 1 January 2016. We saw that the market was very well received. So I think it's right that the representative Pollestad says, that in the last period we saw that it was more developed in Sweden than in Norway. One of the reasons is that we started later. The Swedes were clear when we introduced the scheme. We had to spend some time getting started. I think we'll see that a greater proportion of the expansion will take place in Norway. And it is well served by strengthening the certification system, by the work that is now being done with the Swedes, by concessions and by strengthening the power grid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e483	I thank you for the answer – I am not reassured. The Government Declaration makes it clear that the Government will: ‘Increasing renewable power generation in Norway...’. The centre party shares such an objective and believes that the development will take place in Norway. That also said Stortinget when a processed case about an electric certificate. I record the optimism of the Council of State, but the fact is that few or no investment decisions are made in the wind sector in Norway. So my question is, does the Council of State have a plan for how to do this with today's framework conditions, or does he see the need to change these framework conditions, whether they govern himself or those of the government, so that concessions in Norway can become wind farms producing wind power from Europe's best wind resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e497	It is probably wise for the Minister of Oil and Energy to express his opinion, first and foremost, on the part of the framework conditions under the scope of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. That's what I've already said. I would like to say that there has now been a broad consensus in the storeroom that the certification system is a good system. It is technology-neutral, it is market-based, it is effective, and it contributes every day to a low level of power prices in the Norwegian market, in favour of Norwegian consumers. So I've gone through the things we're working on, like increased capacity to export power through foreign tables, we're fully pressuring to get out the good concessions, which could be expanded, and we're working on strengthening the network. And as I said, there's a job to do that we took over from the red-green ones, and we're working with the Swedish authorities on the 2016 control station.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e506	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e509	It is very demanding and very risky decisions that the builders now face in the next few years in terms of wind power development in Norway. We do not exclude that many people feel strongly that there are different conditions in Norway and Sweden, which give Sweden a competitive advantage in terms of the development of the green licence market. They have e.g. the exemption from the energy tax, and they have more favourable depreciation rates than those in Norway. I understand that not all of this is the responsibility of the Minister of Oil and Energy, but the government has said in the government statement that one will consider adaptations to the system of electricity certificates. The Progress Party also made concrete proposals in the climate communication on, for example: reduced depreciation rules. So the question remains: what measures can we expect from the government to create a level playing field between Norway and Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e516	It is clearly established in the agreement that the whole of the Storting was at the back, but which was negotiated by a central party council, that tax issues are explicitly excluded from the agreement. However, it is equally clear in the agreement that information on conditions affecting the market must be communicated to each other. That is why I have communicated to my Swedish colleague that we on the Norwegian side are concerned with the framework conditions, and in terms of the electricity tax exemption for those builders who use the power themselves – i.e. not all, but some – we have asked for information on the scope of that system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e524	Terje Aasland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e527	It's a very important topic we're dealing with. There is no doubt that we need to hope that green certificates contribute to increased renewable energy production in Norway. Predictability is probably the key word in this way, and it is important that the Council of State contributes to that predictability. And then I think it's a signal that's coming now, that one should possibly assess the relationship when one comes to the threshold on 1 January 2016, as the Council of State says. Then it's important that we be able to maintain our position, that we be able to get our fair share of the investment. So there's a sense in producing more renewable energy with green certificates. It's precisely because one wants to exchange fossil energy with green energy and renewable energy. I note so far today that the Council of State has no plans at all to replace fossil energy with green energy or renewable energy. And then I ask, does the Council of State have any sense of what the renewable power is to be used for?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e534	I am pleased with the support the representative gave me in the first place – it went over gradually. We'll have to live with that. I've already pointed out one of the things we want to do. It is helping to phase out coal-based power in Europe. We see that the use of force in Europe is record-breaking despite the economic challenges Europe has faced. We have already seen that production in power-intensive industries has been reestablished both in North Norway and in the South. Of course, we are happy about that. We're now working on phasing out oil fires, and electricity is one of the energy carriers that can help replace them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e541	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e544	The Energy and Environment Committee has just been in Germany, and we gained a good knowledge of Energiewende, where sun and wind are important elements of the renewable effort in Germany. Norway has a lot to learn here. The Germans were almost envious of Norway’s unique opportunity for wind power. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State think that we can once again achieve equal distribution between Norway and Sweden on the green certificates if we do nothing about our framework conditions today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e551	They've done a lot in Germany. I'm glad they do. It's costed a lot, and they're going to achieve a measure of about 24 pst. renewable energy, while in the Norwegian energy and power market we have 98 pst. At least I'm very happy that we have. In Sweden, about 6 TW have already been developed based on green certificates. In Norway, it has been expanded approximately. 1 TW. Taking it back, so that there will be 12.3 TW in both countries, I don't think we're going to promise, but we're going to make sure that a larger share in the future comes to Norway. It's a goal for the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e558	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e561	I agree with the representative of Aasland that this is an important debate. Renewable energy is one of the most important answers to the climate problem. Only in a generation or two will renewable energy become a scarce resource. Two of the things we get feedback from the industry, which explains a little bit of the difference in the pace of development in Norway and Sweden, are, first of all, the rules on depreciation of wind power and, second, flexibility towards 2020 in the light of the certification system. My question is very brief as to whether the minister has objectives on equal rules for these two countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e568	As I said to the last question, it is a goal for me that a greater proportion of the expansion in the future will come in Norway. That is why we are now working with increased export capacity, with new concessions and with the strengthening of the network, but also with the Swedish authorities in the further work on the certification system. There are many differences between Norway and Sweden, both in terms of wind quality, pay levels and tax and tax rules. The finance minister answers tax questions, and it's probably a principle that I think it's funny that we're dealing with in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e575	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e578	My question also goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy, and it also follows up some of the questions we have had in the past. The report presented by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on Monday underlines the seriousness of the situation we are in, that climate change is currently under way, that it is something we are facing now. Reaching the two-degree goal is possible, but very difficult, and that requires us to act now. And not just us, but every country has to act now. The Council of State was asked by the NRC on Monday about the responsibility of the oil industry to reduce climate change emissions. The answer was that the responsibility was to export more gas to Europe. It's not an answer that is entirely proportional to the problem we're facing. The report of the Environment Directorate shows that Norway has a gap of 8 million tonnes in order to achieve the target set at 47 million tonnes by 2020. According to the Environment Directorate, the oil industry has to take approx. 2 million tons of emissions cuts if we're going to achieve our own goal. This must be done by reducing flares, installing new turbines, energy-efficient, electrifying parts of Snow White, electrifying new installations. My question, also in the light of the answers given earlier, is quite simply: does the Council agree that the oil sector needs to reduce about 2 million. tonnes up to 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e590	I agree that everyone has to contribute to reducing climate change emissions both nationally and globally. However, as the climate agreement shows, climate policy needs to be designed to maximise emissions from the economic efforts we are making. Action costs and resource use are important. When reducing greenhouse gas emissions globally, correct use of resources is important. If not, it will be even more demanding to achieve the objective of the UNFCCC. As pointed out in the climate agreement, carbon pricing will also be the main instrument in the fight against global climate change. The activity on the base has been facing a high cost of emissions for more than 20 years through its own high CO2 tax rate. In fact, emissions of 1 tonne of CO2 on Norwegian soil are currently more than ten times as high as any CO2 emissions in all, most of Europe. Then I want to say that in my department we work very much in terms of climate. One of the things I haven't mentioned before today is to facilitate the export of renewable technologies. One of the challenges we know that we are going to face in the future, and that helps to increase the need to take action, is that Africa is growing rapidly. There are more people living there, and more are also involved in modern economics. This requires more energy. Of course, it's better if we can make sure that energy comes from wind and hydropower than it comes from coal, as the case might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e608	I fully agree that we need to work internationally – we need to export new technology, we need to use the means to improve climate policy, and we need to get a device in the State pension fund abroad. We have to use all the means we can to get an international agreement in place. But at the same time, we need to reduce our own emissions. The oil sector today accounts for 13.7 million tonnes, about 25 p.m., of Norwegian emissions. If we are to achieve our own objectives, they must be reduced and, according to the Directorate for the Environment, they must be reduced by approx. 2 million tonnes by 2020. The question will then be asked again: is the Council willing to use the instruments necessary to achieve this reduction in Norway and in our production? Governments place great emphasis on the pricing of CO2. Is he, then, because the CO2 tax needs to be increased in order to get greater reductions than what we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e625	This illustrates that not only are there many sectors, but many governments need to engage in climate policy. I am not responding to the level of the CO2 tax. But I want to be clear that we follow up the decisions the Stortinget made in connection with the Petroleum Act, and not least in connection with the climate agreement. It is clear, as I have said at least once before, that climate policy must be designed to maximise emissions from the economic effort put on the table. Action costs and resource use are important, and when we are going to reduce emissions of CO2 globally, it is important to use resources correctly. If not, it will be even more demanding to achieve the objective of achieving a good international climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e636	There will be follow-up questions – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e639	The minister actually gave me the key. Many sectors and state councils must be involved, he said. One of the major problems in the field of energy is the lack of an overarching, cross-sectoral, long-term steering gear. Everything we have of plans and actions today, actually stops in 2020 – the Statnet Network, the certification system, which has been debated a good deal today, the climate agreement, to name something. As you can see, it is very affordable that the government and the minister have notified an energy message. So my question is, can the minister ensure that the message is both cross-sectoral and long-term? 2050,2060 is far more relevant than 2020 in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e644	That was a very good question. It is, of course, the government's ambition to produce an energy message that concerns energy, security of supply, climate and not least a renewable and climate-friendly industrial policy. And then that's exactly what the representative says about a bit of the problem that's been in Norway -- in today's situation, we need to have a horizon of what we're doing. I fully agree with the representative. It is a goal of the government’s work on the Energy Communication both to address the period immediately after 2020 and to draw up a long-term perspective. We now have a solid and climate-friendly power supply system in Norway. It has not come about by itself, and now we have to plan what the power system will look like in 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e649	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e652	State Council Lien has answered many questions here today, but I don't think he has said so much, really. He did not answer the question to Ola Elvesuen about the emissions from the sector for which he is responsible, actually going down to 2020, nor, if so, how, even though the Environment Directorate, as Elvesuen said, has said, that Lien's sector must be cut by approx. 2 million tons, and also that electrification needs to be done. Today there have been some discussions around the price, and I also record that the Council of State relies blindly on the oil companies. I don't know if that's the wisest thing to do, because we know what they want. But in any case, I ask the Council of State whether he can answer clearly to the Storting here today: Is he in favour of or is he against electrification of the Utsira area – what can the Storting relate to? It's a yes or no question. So another question: does he possibly have a plan B, if not, to bring down the CO2 emissions from the sector for which he is responsible? It's also a yes or no question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e660	It could have been exciting to experience something new in the Questionnaire, but I am afraid the representative will not experience it. I want to be clear that the government is following the policy of the Stortinget. It is not clear, as anyone claims, from the climate agreement that the Utsira Height is going to take effect from land but that the government is going to follow up the investigation of such a solution and have the aim of supplying it from land. In line with the climate agreement, the Ministry has followed up the ongoing investigations of power from land to the Utsira Height. The choice of such a solution should be considered when dealing with individual developments. Then it is important to say that the chosen concept of the large Johan Sverdrup field, which makes up most of the Utzira height, means that the field will be operated forcefully from land from the start of production. How the rest of the power is to be covered is not now decided. To the first question, I repeat what I said in the first place. We need to take into account the cost of action and resource use. If we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions globally, it is important that these considerations are also taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e669	The Climate Change Panel report shows that climate change is not happening in the distant future. In climate policy, we have no time to lose. We're not talking about our grandchildren anymore – it's also about our children. The government has promised to strengthen climate reconciliation and reduce emissions in line with the objective. We agree on 30 pst. reduction in relation to 1990 by 2020, and two-thirds we will take nationally. This is a major challenge for Norway and also for the world community. What will the Council of State do to strengthen the climate agreement – we are impatient – as we agreed with the Right and the Advance Party in the Cooperation Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e674	As the representative will be familiar with, the general question there is another Council of State answering. I've sometimes said what we work with in my department. We are exporting renewable technologies to other countries, we are working on research and development of new technologies, and we are not least working on creating a new strategy for carbon capture. There was not much to take over from the red-green government. We are working on developing more renewable energy production, we are working on phasing out oil for stationary heating, and we are working on improving energy efficiency and reducing emissions on the base.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e680	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e683	On 29 March, the Minister for Oil and Energy visited the National Meeting for the Youth of the Progress Party. There he was presented for an image that had the following text: No protection of the Lofoten and the Vesterålen – drill baby, drill! The council took a picture of this and commented on Facebook – a clear message from FpU. Now the Government and the Council of State have received at least an equally clear message from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. There must be drastic emission cuts, because the consequence of today's course is greater than we previously feared. My question is whether the Council of State listens most to the advice from the FpU, or whether he hears more from the United Nations Climate Panel? Has the latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change changed his view on the issue of opening up the Lofoten and the West Pole to oil companies, and has it changed his view on electrification of the Utsira Height?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e688	It is fairly well known to both the representative Pollestad and most other listeners in this room and in the rest of the country — to the extent that there are still some — what the Right Party and the Advance Party consider to be petroleum activity in Northern Ireland VI, Northern Ireland VII and Troms II. It is just as well known for the very same peoples that we have made an agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party that makes that question not going to be raised in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e693	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e696	I am very pleased that Tord Lien is concerned about the growth in Africa, and that it will be renewable. But just to put things in perspective: the emissions from the entire African population are less than the emissions from Norwegian oil and gas produced and burned — less. That is why we are talking in the perspective of the United Nations Climate Change Report. When we are all going to reduce our emissions, we in Norway have decided that we are going to cut our emissions quite drastically compared to what is due to emissions today, the oil sector is the individual sector that pollutes most in Norway, and that sector is responsible for Tord Lien, then we are asking for help to answer a very simple question: Does Tord Lien work to reduce the CO2 emissions from the oil sector by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e704	Of course, it is a goal that we should produce oil and gas on a Norwegian base in the most environmentally friendly and climate friendly way possible. It has been a premise for the activity on Norwegian pedestal in all the years it has been there. We were also one of the countries in the world which first imposed a ban on torturing. The red-green government assumed that the main instrument for achieving the Norwegian cap CO2 reduction target would be the sum of the climate quota obligation and the CO2 tax, in sum, a cost that is ten times higher per tonne than that of all, the vast majority of other emissions in Europe. That policy was backed by the government. I'm a little bit unsure if you're behind it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e717	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e720	It's probably not a bomb if I reveal that it goes to Tord Lien. Tell the Norwegian people, the Environment Minister in Bangladesh, Anwar Hossain Manju, said to me that we are all in the same lifeboat – today we are the ones who need help, tomorrow it is you. On Monday, the report tells us that Bangladesh, which has 30 million people – approx. Six times the population of Norway — living below half a meter above sea level — will be hit hard by climate change that is taking place. They're already being hit. The clear message from the world’s scientists was: We must act now. Norway is among the countries that per capita contribute most to climate change due to our oil and gas activities. Everything pumped up is burned. It has made us rich, but it has also given us a great responsibility to help solve the climate problems. We have a climate agreement that has said that we should cut between 8 and 10 million tonnes in relation to the policy we are pursuing today. The government's own professional body, the Environment Directorate, produced a report in March in which they concluded that we do not meet the climate objectives of today's policy. They bring forward some measures to close the gap, including: new offshore expansions are gaining power from land. The most important climate issue in the spring is the discussion about precisely this – electrification of the height of Outsira. If the Utsira height gets only partial power from land and instead is to be operated with gaseous pollutants, the climate impacts are more than the annual emissions of 100000 cars. Electrification of the height of Outsira is the test piece of whether we want to put the climate ahead of oil or vice versa. With the reports now presented, I have one question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: Will the Council of State now reconsider its position, intervene with the oil companies and ensure full electrification of the Utsira Height?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e735	The climate agreement refers to the assessment of force from land for new developments on Norwegian soil, to the follow-up of ongoing investigations by the government and to the aim that the southern part of the Utzira height be supplied with power from land. The condition for the use of power from land is that there are no regional imbalances on land and that consideration of the cost of action is taken into account. Then I want to be very clear that the government is following the policy of the Stortinget. It is not clear, as anyone claims, from the climate agreement that the Utsira Height will take effect from land but that the government will follow the investigation of such a solution and aim to provide it with power from land. In line with the climate agreement, the Ministry has followed up the ongoing investigations of power from land to the Utsira Height. The selected concept for the Johan Sverdrup field, which constitutes it all, most of the power demand at the Utsira height, will be driven by force from land from the start of production. How the rest of the power is to be covered is not now decided. Then I repeat what I said instead: it is also evident from the climate agreement that climate policy needs to be set up in order to maximise the emission of the economic effort put on the table. Action costs and resource use are important. When reducing greenhouse gas emissions globally, correct use of resources is important. If not, it will be even more demanding to achieve the objective of the UNFCCC. In the climate agreement, for which Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås was in government and presented, or at least was part of the parliamentary basis, it is pointed out that carbon pricing will be the main instrument in the work against global climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e748	It is a unanimous increase now that the Progress Party has left its old clothes and has agreed to cut the CO2 emissions and has recognised that the climate problems exist, and that there is something we should do about. It is in such a situation that we have agreed to cut between 8 and 10 million tonnes compared to the current policy. That's when I tell the oil minister: When we get new knowledge on the table, and the oil and energy minister is responsible for implementing a knowledge-based policy to follow up Stortinget's decision – the new report that was presented today, says that reducing emissions from the Johan Sverdrup field costs $40 per tonne if you provide full-electrication from day one, while it costs $959 per tonne according to Statoil – does Tord Lien work for full-electrication? And what does it take for him to change his mind and impose full-electricity on the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e756	The President will recall that the Council of State Lien is here as the Council of State, and in so far as he is to be mentioned, one should use the title in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e760	As I have been to this day, I am aware that Energy Norway has got a consultancy office to prepare its own cost of action for power from land to Utsira Height. I do not know the details of that work, but there are therefore five major players who have a long experience from Norwegian Socket – Statoil, Petoro, Lundin, Norse and Maersk – who have worked out the basis for the decision. They have no reason to doubt. Nevertheless, the Oil Directorate has also contributed to this input into both technical and financial assumptions used by the operator in its action cost calculations, and the Oil Directorate will review the results of the concept study also on the issue of energy solution. This is done in order to clarify whether there are circumstances that require further clarification before submitting a plan of deployment and operation to the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e767	It opens for follow-up questions – first Audun Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e770	Now the government's speech points about climate change are beginning to become both used-up and worn-out. What we're all waiting for is for the government to put down the speech points and start doing something, and I thought I'd give the council a chance to do it right away. When Statoil provided its calculations on the cost of electrification of the Utsira Height, they were surprisingly high, much more than the Oil Directorate arrived in 2012. Many have been surprised by this. The Energy and Environment Committee has asked for an insight into the estimates of Statoil by the Directorate of Oil. Statoil's own report is hard to say about, because it looks to a large extent like this gossiped black. [[(showing two pages):]] I wonder in the light of the new calculations presented today by Add Energy, which shows that the costs may be much lower than Statoil's estimate, whether the Council will now reconsider its decision to provide the Stortinget with an insight into the estimates of the Director of Oil on the cost of measures for electrification of the Utsira height.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e779	Now there's some text in that document too, although it might not have come out very well from the Greatness's pulpit now. We have been concerned that public vocabulary should be as much as possible based on facts and knowledge, and we believe that we have facilitated it in a good way in this specific matter, among other things. by making available information on the project and the follow-up of the authorities up to the design choice, also published on the Ministry's website. Publication of documents and information is based on specific assessments on a case-by-case basis. This also applies in this case. I do not intend to publish any change in the positions taken by the ministry, from the Stockholm pulpit today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e788	Åsmund Gruver August – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e791	It was quite incredible to hear the oil and energy minister’s answer to questions about whether he could mention one single climate action by the government, that it is at the limit of what he is responsible for – the minister who is therefore responsible for the largest sources of emissions in Norway. That's why it's good and necessary for the climate that we fortunately have the opportunity for another majority here in Stortinget. This applies not least to the question of Utsira. The size of the plant has been clear through the climate agreement that Utsira will be electrified. Not least, the debate in the last few months has shown that it will be very difficult to have a majority in this Chamber without an area electricisation. My question to the minister is: doesn't he also see that it will almost be impossible to get through a PUD without electrifying the Utsira area? And why won't he start all the work on it now, so we avoid unnecessary delays when the matter comes to Stortinget in a year's time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e798	I didn't quite recognize myself in that description of what I've been trying to talk about from the Great Council today. On the contrary, I have talked about the government developing a new carbon capture and storage strategy, we are working on increasing renewable energy production, we are working on facilitating the phasing out of oil fuel and other fossil energy uses and replacing it with renewable energy, and we are working on both technology development and export of technology. Then we follow up the decision of the Great Government on Utsira. However, the climate agreement, as claimed by many, does not show that the Utsira Height is going to take effect from land, but that the government is going to follow up the investigation of such a solution and have the aim of providing it with power from land. And so is the fact that the large Johan Sverdrup development is going to be powered by land from the start-up day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e807	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e810	In front of the OL in Sochi, the government was exemplaryly clear that it distanced itself from discrimination against homosexuals in Russia. It was good that the government was clear about it before the games, and we have recorded that Prime Minister Solberg addressed the issue in his bilateral talks with the leadership of Russia. Both the Minister of Culture and the rest of the political leadership in the Ministry of Culture were present in Sochi, but we have not heard much about the opportunities that political leadership had to raise the issue of discrimination in their conversations during the games. My question to the Minister of Culture is: What talks did political leadership have on this topic under the OL, and how does the Council of State perceive that the message was received?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e819	We had a very good discussion in Stortinget through an interpellation before we traveled to Sochi and before the Olympics started. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the undersigned stressed that the government would take appropriate advantage of the opportunity to address these questions. I also got that opportunity at a reception. It is not always that the situation has been arranged so that you can set up specific meetings when you are at such events, but I was given occasion in connection with a reception that the Russian sports minister had. I then used the option, even if it was in a situation where you did not have the opportunity to go aside and sit down and discuss it. But I was given the opportunity to promote the concerns of our country when it comes to the issues of both the rights of homosexuals and the discrimination and the problems that have arisen in connection with Russia's not having the same positions on human rights as we have. It seemed to me that the sports minister was prepared for this issue to come, and he stated that they were also observant of the problem and thought that they took this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e826	I thank you for a thorough reply from the Council of State. The Council of State is also responsible for all sport in Norway, and there is reason to believe that there can be discrimination based on sexual orientation also in Norway. So my follow-up question would be to ask the Council of State what she might do to counteract this type of discrimination, and who she believes is responsible for combating this type of discrimination in sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e834	Now it is primarily sport through its work that has a special responsibility to put this on the agenda. It's my impression – as I also said in the interpellation – that the Sports Association nationally, at home, has a strong focus on these issues, but not least brings this to the international forums where it is present. That being said, it is very important for us, as the authorities, to support sport, as well as other organisations, in this case – both that they should focus on it, and not least when we participate in international events, that we can also help focus on this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e841	There will be follow-up questions – first Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e844	I am pleased that the Council of State is so clear that both she and the organisations have a responsibility to prevent the kind of discrimination that we are talking about here. Tomorrow, the Council of State will visit the Church Meeting, and one of the central and conflict-filled issues in which discrimination is based on sexual orientation. Of course, the Church's bodies are going to make the decisions there, and I don't think the Council of State is going to instruct the Norwegian Church on how to end this issue, but my question is, in the light of what the Council of State has just said: will the Council of State address this in its speech to the Church meeting and communicate an opinion on this topic?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e851	It is right, as the representative Aasrud points out, that it is the Church's responsibility to address these questions. My impression is also that this is a highly topical debate that is taking place in the Church. I am pretty sure this is going to be an essential part of the debate that is going to take place. As for what I'm going to say at the Church Meeting, I haven't finished what's going to be the concrete statement. I'm going back and I'm going to work on that right now. But I'm very well informed that this is a real problem issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e858	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e870	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Else-May Botten of the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, will be answered by the Minister of Industry, who will direct him. Question 3, from Kari Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 4, from the representative Olivia Corso Salles to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be addressed by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Question 7, from the representative, Mr Kjetil Kjeseth, to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare who directs him. Question 10, from the representative of Mr Ellingsen to the Minister for Justice and Defence, has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e891	This question, from the representative Else-May Botten to the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry, which is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e894	‘In the evening post of 27 March 2014, the Council of State calls on several researchers to exploit the fact that Norway invests billions in the EU’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme. It should also be an objective to include more enterprises in the programme, but this has weakened the possibility for the government to do so. The allocation of COSME, the EU's first programme for SMEs to help them into just Horizon 2020, was phased out in the 2014 budget. Will the government re-evaluate participation in COSME to ensure that more enterprises can also participate in Horizon 2020?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e901	The EU is Norway’s main trading partner, and the government wants broad cooperation between Norwegian enterprises and the business community in other European countries. Norway participated in the EU Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, as well as the CIP, which expired in 2013. It was a challenge for Norwegian participation in the CIP to get satisfactory return in terms of funding to Norwegian actors. During the current programming period, innovation-oriented instruments have moved into the EU's major research and innovation programme Horizon 2020. Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020 is coordinated by the Ministry of Knowledge, but the programme has a central business component. The Ministry of Industry and Fisheries will contribute strongly to the Norwegian participation in Horizon 2020, which is about industrial research and innovation. Norwegian participation allows Norwegian enterprises, including SMEs, to participate in Horizon 2020 in line with enterprises from other participating countries. COSME is a separate programme for competitiveness, in which only parts of the programme intend to assist enterprises into Horizon 2020. Following the government’s assessment, participation in COSME as a whole now would not be the best use of Norwegian funds. On the other hand, we are working towards a collaborative solution for those parts of COSME that Norway needs most, namely the Enterprise Europe Network, EEN. ONE would like, among other things: be useful for mobilising Norwegian enterprises to participate in Horizon 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e919	Thanks for the answer. It was really a good thing that the Minister of Industry answered this question, but I have also registered that the Minister of Knowledge is concerned that Norwegian researchers are going to get on the job with applications, so that we get a payoff for the quota we are paying for in Horizon 2020. The real question is whether the Minister of Industry has the same commitment and level of ambition as regards the participation of Norwegian enterprises in this programme. I often think that the answer from the Minister of Industry, on the grounds that the evaluation of the CIP shows that we got too little out of it, does not hold, because COSME is actually the first EU programme aimed specifically at small and medium-sized enterprises. The programme shall include, inter alia: improve access to finance for SMEs through equity financing and loan facilities and strengthen competitiveness. So I wonder if the Council of State thinks that what she was talking about here now is what is going to raise the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, or will you still be able to work to get COSME to join it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e928	In general, we can access COSME at some point, if we believe it is a basis for doing so. Then I can confirm in every way that I am engaged, and I have gone into this matter carefully. Several questions have also been asked by the representative in this Chamber about the programme. But unlike the representative, I am concerned that we are participating in the Norwegian business community for the benefit of and the greater benefit of. There is no situation in this programme. I have not received a single enquiry from the business community about this either. So what we're now working on is participating in the part of the program that we can benefit from, not in those parts that we don't see that we have anything left for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e935	It might be interesting to ask the Council of State how the dialogue between the government and the NHO has been in this area, because the NHO was very concerned that the previous government should go into that program, and we had a good dialogue with them. They have also been in the media criticising the government for withdrawing from COSME. So I can ask the Council of State how the dialogue with the NHO has been in this area. And finally, when will the Council of State review the possible inclusion of COSME?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e940	The NHO is the organisation I meet most often — weekly — in different parts of the country. I have addressed myself directly to the NHO and asked what they think about this. Of course, they've said they're too. But besides that, I have not received any enquiries unsolicited about this program. Now our assessment is that we don't have the benefit of what we think is right, and then we make a continuous assessment of if the situation should change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e949	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘The Government’s report on road cabotage in Norway has now been presented and a number of good measures are proposed in the report. One of the measures proposed, but for which there is no majority in the working groups, is the narrowing of the concept of ‘a cabotage mission’, as Finland has done. Will the Council of State introduce such a narrower interpretation of ‘a cabotage tour’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e958	The report referred to was submitted shortly ago – 26 March. There is a working group that has done a lot of good work. I feel that they have had a very good tone, very constructive. They have disagreed on the extent of cabotage, but agree that it is growing in any case – that it is becoming more extensive. Then there are many measures that have been promoted. 14 of the measures are fully agreed on – 10 of the measures disagree. I think it's good in itself, because it shows that they've had a real debate, but they've managed to gather around a lot of things despite that they represent all the different sides of the issue. I will not now take a position on the content, because it will short-circuit some of that process. I have many opinions about it, but it's not fair for the process to go out and say something about it yet. That case has now been sent to the hearing, and we will come back to it when the hearing deadline expires on 21 April. Let me say anyway that I think it is very important that we grasp this. Some say it's a problem -- others say it's a challenge. Kabotage makes sense in the sense that when cars drive and deliver goods, it is stupid if they run empty-handed again. It becomes an environmental load and a road load. But cabotage is a challenge if it contributes to exploiting and creating an unfortunate competitive situation in which some exploit different levels of costs and the kind of things, undermines the serious market players and destroys healthy competition. I want to grips with that. This is why we have increased control along Norwegian roads by quadrupling the control of trucks this winter compared to previous years. There is a way that you can unlock unprofessional operators, either because they do not relate to technical requirements, that they load the car incorrectly, or that they do not relate to driving and rest periods. The second thing we do, which is also relevant, is bet more on rail and shipping. One of the first things I did after joining was to travel to Sweden to discuss the problem with the Swedes, both in order to coordinate the control of trucks between our countries and to see how one can get more goods over on the railway – especially, in this case, directed towards Gothenburg. If we were able to get more goods to get to the seaway or on the railway, there would initially be fewer trailers coming to Norway, and that would cause the cabotage range to automatically decrease, because we would get fewer foreign trailers. It is important here to address the measures promoted. Many of them are obviously good -- others are more controversial. But because you can't quantify a problem, that doesn't mean you just have to ignore it. Maybe it's anyway, even if you disagree with the scope, it's important to go in and do some grip, because it also sends signals to the industry that we want the serious actors to welcome and get rid of those unprofessional ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e973	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that there are many good measures, as I said, in the report available here. But at the same time we have received quite a lot of feedback that there is a lot going on with cabotage, and that some of the actors believe that it is speculating in cabotage in a Scandinavian perspective. It's very serious in that case. Although not all transport by foreign actors will be prohibited, it is important to focus on it at least. Norwegian transport industry faces major challenges – competition from low-cost countries, social dumping. Irregularities have been detected in some areas, in addition to the fact that there is a vehicle that is not suitable for Norwegian conditions, and our road safety is affected here to land. So I want to ask: what will the Council of State do now, in the short term, to ensure the Norwegian transport industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e982	We have been very concerned with the transport sector in general from an environmental and mobility perspective, where we want to avoid lorry operations, for example. contributes to the queue in cities. It's a little bit about getting better roads, it's a little bit about getting better traffic routes. That's why we work, among other things. that we should get a recommended driving route from all GPS card providers, so that we get rid of trucks that are not suitable for it, but that on the map seems to be very short. It's about getting better control of the business. It's about roadside control, but it's also about the cabotage issue. We have deliberately failed to go very high in cabotage, precisely because that working group has been working. We have been very high on the ground in a number of other areas that the cabotage group does not process, precisely because it is important that we make some legislative changes, some regulatory changes and some practical changes, so that we can make better use of resources both in the Road Administration and in the police, which control this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e989	I thank you again for the answer. There's a lot that we share our point of view here. At the same time, I and the Centre have a concern for Norwegian transport industry, because they face major challenges. We don't get away from the fact that some places in the country we have to carry some goods on the road, although of course we want the most on the keel and track. There will be a need for transportation from some nodes and out to ensure that the goods are put in place – among others. in the part of the country that I come from, North Norway, where we have a little railway today. I'm concerned about the range of measures that can lead to bankruptcy in part of the transport market. I want to ask what the Council of State will do in the short term. Does the Council of State see the urgency of not losing part of an industry we need to make society work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e996	I fully agree with the concerns expressed. I myself have been in charge of them in Stortinget when we were in opposition. Just because this has been a development that has happened over a long time, and where we have seen that too little has been done, it has been hasty for us to get a lot of grip going. That's why we've gone abroad, we've traveled abroad, we've had hearings, and we've talked to all the players in the industry about how they look at the problem, and what's done. That's why we've already started this control business, because there's things you can do quickly. We've already seen that it's quadrupled the effect. You have to ask yourself why it wasn't done before. To ensure recruitment to the industry, Norwegian youth must see that this is an industry that can get a job in the future. That's why it's important that we do these grips. We're going to work on the cabotage problem, and we're going to have hearings from a lot of different actors to sort this out. Some grips for the industry will be able to be taken already this summer, other grips will come to the harvest. It is important that when winter comes, we show that there is a completely new regime in place within this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1014	This question is postponed, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1021	This question, from Olivia Corso Salles to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1024	‘The air quality in many Norwegian cities is too low and violates the limit values of the Air Quality Directive. There is a lack of action plans to address the problem in many places. The ESA has asked Norway to take rapid action against poor and health-threatening air quality in Norwegian cities. What measures does the Council of State think need to be in place to improve the air quality of Norwegian cities and will the Council of State set up an action plan to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1031	The ESA announced last week that they are moving ahead with Norway for breach of the Air Quality Directive. Norway is also refused an application to postpone the deadline for reaching the NO2 limit values for all cities outside Bergen, which were exempted until 1 January 2015. Norway has been given a period of two months to reply to the reasoned opinion. The ESA will then consider whether to bring the matter before the EFTA Court. Air pollution is a major environmental health problem in several countries in Europe and globally. The Commission has a strong focus on this issue and opens proceedings against several EU countries that do not fulfil the obligations of the Directive. In general, there has been a downward trend in emissions levels in Norway, and a number of instruments and measures have been implemented. Although there has generally been a downward trend in emissions levels in Norway, the ESA case illustrates that we still have challenges in this area. In Norway, municipalities are responsible for local air quality. This means that municipalities are responsible for drawing up action plans in accordance with the pollution regulation and implementing measures to improve air quality. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has asked the Environment Directorate to follow up and assist cities more actively in this work in the future. Furthermore, we are totally dependent on local authorities implementing all existing instruments. The State has an important role to play in facilitating the provision of sufficient space for local authorities to implement measures. The State has contributed indirectly by allowing municipalities to introduce measures such as cow pricing, increased tolls on days of high air pollution, environmental limit values, temporary traffic control measures in case of risk of exceedances of the limit values, e.g. date travel, and adopt a charge for heavy duty tyres. Some municipalities have followed up this work. In Kristiansand and Trondheim, a rush-time charge has been imposed. In Bergen and Oslo, there has been a heavy-duty charge. Furthermore, the State must continue to facilitate the purchase of a low-emission vehicle. The Environment Directorate has held meetings with the cities concerned. We are now carrying out a thorough review of the feedback from ESA and will ensure that this is followed up as closely as possible. On the basis of the urban input, I would like to look at the need to introduce additional instruments – in cooperation with the cities concerned and the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1053	I thank you for the answer, but I just want to point out that the minister did not answer the simple question of whether she intends to introduce action plans for individual cities to get proper air quality. The World Health Organization says this is the biggest environmental problem in the world. What takes most lives is the health damage caused by poor air quality. I would like to ask about two very specific proposals that the Municipality of Oslo has raised. One is that they have asked for the possibility to prohibit diesel cars from entering Oslo on days when there is a risk that there may be poor air, because it is road traffic that is the worst for Oslo. The second is the proposal to introduce a municipal fuel oil levy to prevent and get rid of fuel oil in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1062	I fully agree with the representative Holmås that this is a major problem both globally and in Norway. There were 15 EU countries that received the same message from ESA that this is not good enough. We know that air quality has improved in recent years, and now, fortunately, it is largely in the big cities that there are cross-border crossings. The Environment Directorate has also presented a proposal for tightening the limit values for particulate matter, and we are following up with the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Transport. It is important for us that we work closely with the municipalities to solve this problem. It is also important for municipalities to decide for themselves which instruments to use. Now we have two months to give a good answer to ESA and will follow up with the municipalities, including Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1069	In this context, the Minister for the Environment is also aware that if the municipalities do not take sufficient action, the State must intervene and ensure that the population is properly aired. Both in the Groruddalen and elsewhere in the city, the limit values are serious, and the reason for not granting an exemption from the ESA deadline for plans to start was that there was nothing in today’s policy that suggested that the objectives would be achieved before 2025. One of the most serious things, as we know, is going to happen, and that's going to increase car traffic into Oslo, is the planned expansion of a up to 14-field motorway between Oslo and Sandvika. My question is: if the E18 is in conflict with the EU's air directive and makes it impossible to achieve it, will the Minister for Climate and Environment take into account the air quality of the population in terms of building up new roads and putting an end to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1076	I fully agree with the representative Holmås that this is a serious issue. What we got from ESA is serious. There's nothing new from ESA either, but we've had several rounds of this, which the previous government is also well aware of. We have to take this seriously. In close cooperation with the municipalities, we will find out what means the municipalities have to improve air quality. The commitment to more public transport in large cities is also important and simply to facilitate more opportunities for walking or cycling in large cities. Making Fornebubanen available is also important for future developments in Oslo and for improving air quality. We take this very seriously and work closely with the cities concerned on this important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1087	‘Travel industry is one of the fastest growing industries in the world, and Norway has all the prerequisites for taking part in the growth process. Should tourism be able to exploit its potential, more professionalisation and restructuring of the industry are needed. In the ‘Destination Norway’ strategy, adopted during the previous ageing period, good leadership and objectives were set for this work. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the travel life strategy is followed up and that the rate of merger of the destinations companies is kept up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1094	The previous government presented its travel strategy Destination Norway in April 2012. The framework for restructuring travel destination companies in Norway was provided in this strategy. It was stated that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade at that time was to operate a process aimed at establishing a new structure for travel destination companies, consisting preferably of six regional companies with the role of parent company in a group. Six regional project groups, one for each area – North Norway, Mid Norway, Fjord-Norway, South Norway, East Norway and Fjell-Norway – have been working on this as a starting point for the last year. It is clear from the Sundvolden Declaration that the current government also wants to pool resources in larger travel destination companies. But our government has a different approach to how such concentration should happen. We believe it is the industry itself that has to push forward the process of establishing a new structure. This is because there is a need for cooperation between the industry and, among other things, the industry. the development of products, the enhancement of competence and the marketing of such products are the main concerns. It must be assumed that the owners of the new companies take responsibility for the operation of their own activities. This also includes the choice of organisational form. The role of the Ministry vis-à-vis the travel destination companies is to facilitate and stimulate the establishment of a new structure. Support for the structural change process itself shall continue to be available. I communicated this when I met the National Structural Committee, set up as a reference group for the project, on 24 February this year. At the meeting, I made it clear that the work of pooling resources in larger travel destinations continues with these adjusted frameworks. The shape of the process in the future is now determined by the industry itself. Four of the six regional project groups have already discussed the way forward. Here, the tourism industry shows great interest in continuing the process of even stronger commitment. And right now, in Trondheim, the road is being discussed further for the travel industry in Central Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1107	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that you want to continue the main features of what is there from the past big business. At the same time, as long as you don’t show that you’re contributing with financial incentives – and I think the government should be clearer that you want to do something – I’m afraid you’ll lose the moment in the further process. It's definitely the industry that has to drive it, it's the industry that's going to be the enthusiastic party, but on the government side you have to show that you're contributing financially. My question is, what can you actually think of doing with this from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1114	Firstly, that strategy was not addressed by Stortinget. This was a strategy that the government alone treated. It was also a strategy that meant – almost speaking – that they were in the department and they were cutting down an organisational form across the industry. I think the process must go the other way: it must come from the industry, it must be about the needs of the industry, the motives of the industry and the wishes of the industry. We have also not lost any “momentum” in addition to what you have to expect when you get a government change, and I have been busy going into the matter. It was set by $15 million. Last year, it's set at 15 million. kr this year, and we're going to most of the facilities. I also felt that the Structural Committee was pleased to finally meet the responsible state council for the tourism industry, and I confirm in every way that we should follow up these projects. We're going to facilitate them, we're going to arrange network meetings for them, and then our main task is to make sure that the funds we use from the department – about 250 million. kr on travel life – is used in the best possible way, and we are doing so now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1121	I want to hear from the Council of State that there is good dialogue and close cooperation between the Norwegian business community and the government. It's a little bit inside of this state council right now. I want to add something before the last question. During the last few weeks, I have met many representatives from Norwegian travel life, both here in Oslo, in North Norway, in the West and in the mountainous region, and in addition to more general structural issues that we are dealing with here now, have issues such as time-frames for gift granting, rules related to the use of cards in relation to cash payment, etc. and employers’ fees – in particular – were important. The concrete question is: is it well played on the team? Do we have the dialogue that needs to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1130	Dialogue in all fields may well always be better, but at least I can assure you that from political leadership and from the office we have close contact with the tourism industry throughout the country. We are well aware of the challenges facing the industry, and it is a challenge that when you get more time and more money in the world, Norway is not able to share in that growth. We have to do something about that. This is a future industry, and the structural project is part of getting even more accurate schemes. We are going to follow this closely, not least that the funds we spend on the budget are being used as best as possible for the industry as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1141	I would like to ask the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion the following questions: ‘The number of children living in families defined by the SSB as poor is increasing. Researchers say that work is the most important factor in getting families out of such a situation. What measures has the new government put in place to increase the opportunities for more families of children to get into work and to contribute to the reduction of child poverty?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1150	The government is seriously looking at the new SSB figures that show that the number of children living in poverty is increasing. Living in poverty affects the ability to function in everyday life and to master the school, and it increases the risk of health pressures. For children in Norway, living in poverty is often about not being able to contribute to leisure activities, travelling on vacations or participating in social arenas. The main factor that can improve the situation of children in the long term is improving the family economy. Therefore, the government has great ambitions to get more people to work. We must contribute to a more inclusive working life while at the same time pursuing a policy that ensures more jobs. The figures from the SSB show that newly arrived refugees and asylum seekers are overrepresented in the statistics. An important work for the government is to increase the share that goes into work after the end of the introduction course. We therefore want closer cooperation with industry to strengthen the work of the introduction programme, and we need to increase the focus on language training strongly in order to help more women with immigrant backgrounds get out of work. Living in poverty also affects the ability to live well. Safe, good, stable housing conditions are very important for families with children. Still, we know that there are disadvantaged families that move the most. Still being moved from school, community and friends makes it harder to succeed in school and in social arenas. Thus, last week the government launched a national strategy for housing-social work. The most important measure to lift people out of low incomes and prevent poverty is to ensure that as much as possible is linked to employment. It's important to always pay for work. There is an important work to be done in several departments that will be involved and contribute to this. In 2013, work was also started on developing a programme to respond to the needs and living conditions of poor families. The aim is to promote the transition to work for parents, while at the same time caring for children. Several pilot projects are now also being prepared in the individual Nav Office. The government is high on the fight against child poverty. Several governments have tried to contribute to this work without one having succeeded. It shows these numbers. The State budget for 2014 includes several grant and support schemes that go directly to actions to help children and young people get involved in leisure activities, to travel on vacation and to participate in social arenas: National scheme against child poverty, of 105 million. kr, the major cities and grants to the Holidays for all under the auspices of the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1167	I thank you for the answer, but I record that there are not many new ideas coming from the Council of State. We hear about some wishes, but we hear about very few new measures. So I allow myself to repeat my question: What measures have the Council of State helped to get more people out of work, to prevent child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1172	I would then like to take this opportunity to inform the representative about the qualification programme, which is an important measure to combat poverty. The Programme shall contribute to improving the labour market and living conditions of people who are far from the labour market, and many programme participants have mental problems and have not completed the training. The Qualification Programme has good results and has helped to improve living conditions for many, including families with children. Then I want to mention the job opportunities, which are a permanent scheme, where domestic immigrant women who are not dependent on social assistance are a priority target group. It turns out that this has great effect in getting immigrant women, who are part of this group, into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1179	I thank you again for the answer, but I note that the representative is talking about programs that were well-known for the previous government as well. So we have to conclude that there are no new measures in the area of the current government. But I want to follow up on this a little bit, because in an interview with the NRK, the council's party-fucking representative Keshvari says: ‘The Norwegian welfare system is designed to help people who have problems with the economy unaccounted for. One cannot expect the public to help when a person deliberately puts himself in a difficult economic situation by having many children.» And then the question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State agree with its party trap here on the Stortinget that this is the problem, that you have too many children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1189	I record that combating child poverty has been a field of activity for the previous government without success, as the figures now show. Focusing on child poverty is going to be an important task for this government. A number of measures have to be addressed directly, e.g.: the capital and investment of 105 million. to combat poverty, which will be important for the children concerned. At the same time, it's important to focus on succeeding in this, we need to get people out of work and get people who need it, to get work and a job income. Statistics have now shown that the average fertility of all immigrant women remained broadly 2.5 children before the turn of the millennium, and the figure has now fallen: in 2012 immigrant women had 2.1 children per woman, and that average is the same as that of ethnic Norwegian women.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1202	Then Stortinget goes to question 7, which is from the representative Ketil Kjenseth to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. The question has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is addressing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1205	‘Some countries have introduced age limits for the purchase of energy drinks. In Norway, some food chains advertise with a recommended age limit. Since energy drinks were authorised in Norway in 2009, children and young people under the age of 18 have become a large consumer group of so-called energy drinks, despite the fact that the mixture of caffeine, sugar and other additives is not intended for children. Will the Council consider measures to limit the advertising of energy drinks aimed at children in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1212	The government believes it is important that children and young people are not subjected to the marketing pressure. Children and young people are largely protected from being placed on the market under today's legislation, including: through the Marketing Act, the Broadcasting Act, the Training Act, the Private School Act and the Food Act. I'm familiar with the case where a 14-year-old boy collapsed under a computer hit at Otta recently. The doctors are currently explaining the collapse with the high intake of energy and are working to identify which of the substances in the energy drinks that may have triggered the disease. I look at this seriously. Food and health authorities recommend a limited intake of energy drinks for the paediatric population. I am also aware that the food and drink industry has developed a new and improved self-regulation system in the spring of 2013, which is designed to protect children and young people from the marketing of certain foods and beverages, including energy drinks. The guidelines shall not specifically address children under 13 years of age. The marketing specifically aimed at young people shall take into account and show caution in relation to age and development. The food and drink industry has made a significant effort to develop clear guidelines and the establishment of the Professional Selection of the Food Industry, MFU, among others. shall address complaints and questions of interpretation relating to the guidelines. I believe in the attitude-building work done in this area, and the work that the industry has done so far. I believe that the self-regulation system could help limit the marketing pressure of energy drinks on children and young people, and in the future I will follow developments in this area closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1225	I thank you for your answer. I agree that self-justice in industries is important, but then we as authorities have a special responsibility for children as a vulnerable consumer group. Sports events – sports heroes – and computer game fairs are activities where energy drinks are advertised quite aggressively, and they are even distributed in large amounts for free. The Gathering Computer Game Fair at Hamar in Easter is known as a major event targeting young people, and this is an attractive arena to distribute energy drinks in large quantities. And it's hard to regulate the targeting of children when it says Red Bull on the hat for the athletes. Does the Council of State see that it may be appropriate to regulate that kind of advertising?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1232	I would like to remind you that in the summer of 2012, the then government sent out a proposal for a regulation to consult on the ban on the marketing of certain foods and beverages. This was a regulation that made quite strong reactions, including: from current government parties. I can't remember what the Left felt about that proposal at the time, but at least it turned out that that type of regulation got quite a lot of strange results, and it became quite quickly a broad political consensus that it was a better way to work with the industry on some sort of self-regulation. This has recently been put in place, and we will of course follow up on how that system works in the future and see if it works as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1237	I thank you for that. I guess that's the so-called cheek egg regulation the Council of State refers to. It is clear that it is demanding to enter into such regulations. Now there are starting to come some consequences of the use of energy drinks that lead to serious illness. It's clear that we need to get more knowledge about this, and also about the composition and content of these products. Other countries, including our neighbouring country, has introduced an age limit for energy drinks. Does the Council of State see it as a current instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1246	Norway must also follow the rules relating to the placing on the market of food and drink in the European Community. Then we will follow the regulation, the self-regulation, which the industry here has related to marketing specifically aimed at children and young people. An absolute age limit is not something that the government is now considering.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1257	‘It is not possible to create almost equal pay and working conditions in the Norwegian transport industry without the publication of tariff agreements in the areas of freight and touring cars. Today we see examples of foreign carriers paying their drivers 30 kroner per hour. We also see Norwegian companies pay foreign drivers at dumped prices. Do the Council of State agree that collective agreements in these areas need to be published urgently?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1264	Let me first of all be allowed to point out that Norwegian working life is mainly characterised by cleanliness, and the employees are satisfied. Nine out of ten workers are satisfied, are happy to go to work and have good and safe working conditions. As regards the issue of public disclosure, I would like to say: Firstly, the government wishes to continue the public service. Secondly, if there is a particular urgency to generalise collective agreements, I will be allowed to show that it is primarily the social partners who have to make demands. It will then be dealt with in the tariff heading, which decides whether it should be made public. The essential thing is that the requirement must be made by one of the parties, either the employer's side or the employee's side, who has a collective bargaining agreement in the tariff area that they wish to make public. That is the time, and as of today, we have not received any claim, as I know, from any of the parties to make this public. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that both I and the authorities have a particular focus on vulnerable industries. The transport sector is one of the sectors where conditions are not desirable. We want to have targeted efforts against the unprofessional, and we want to cheer up the good and serious. I have very much faith that good business agreements need to be put in place to take the unprofessional ones. We have seen that in other sectors too, with good results. This has led to a more decent working life. For this reason, it is important for me to be able to reach a good industry agreement in the transport sector, where the employer side and the employee side agree together on the propensity to have in that industry, and to close the unprofessionals out quickly and efficiently, so that we can have a good and robust transport industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1281	The central thing that the Council of State now said was the propriety you should have in the transport sector. There's a consensus that decency is getting smaller. How much less, there's disagreement about. The pay terms of those who have a collective agreement are for a bus 145 kroner per hour, without any additions when you get older. For those who drive goods, it is from 152 kroner to 158 kroner when you have worked for six years. So the collective agreement isn't much to pay the bills with. It runs at much lower prices, and this pushes it all, and I expect the Council of State to agree. It's a problem. The previous government said this was a priority area. Are there any other areas that are more priority for public service than the transport area, as assessed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1294	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative Lundtägen that what we see of illegal cabotage on Norwegian roads is unacceptable. That's something you have to hit hard on. It also means that we have unfair working conditions and pay terms in an industry where the serious ones are out of competition. This is not a desired situation, so I also know that the Ministry of Transport is doing well and is working systematically on how to tackle the problem of illegal cabotage. Work is in progress, and there will also be a report on Easter on the action to be taken. The second concerns something that goes on in my department and is something that I'm in the process of making sure that we have good tripartite cooperation, with a good trade agreement. We have ambitions to get it done by 01/01/2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1301	My question is not illegal cabotage. What is illegal must be legal, and the authorities must ensure that it is. The Minister of Transport has previously explained what he wants to follow up on the group that the former Arnstad Council of State put down. What's interesting about that group is that those who produce services believe one thing, whether they're seafaring traders, employees or NHO Transport, while those who buy services think it's okay. This is incredibly important, but my question was about the public sector: Is the government keeping with the service providers, or are you keeping with those who buy services, as the conflicts are now in the transport industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1312	The government is supporting a serious work life, and it has to be two-way. There are several parties in a working life, and it must be serious on both sides. The government has said that it is continuing to publicize, but I think we have to respect that if you want to make something public, there is an order for how it happens, and it has to come from the industry itself in the first place – they have to take that initiative. I don't think you're going to solve all the issues of public service, because we see that it's in the sectors that are already publicized that you see the greatest element of social dumping. That's why there have to be some other things. Public education itself does not solve the problem, but better supervision and better control prove to be the most effective contribution to bringing out the unprofessional and the serious in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1325	My question is, «How many children have been brought back to Norway for the last five years, as a direct consequence of the Hague case ruling, and how long has it taken since the start of the Hague case until the children returned to Norwegian soil? I would like to make it clear that I am here aiming at the cases in which the enforcement of a judgment in The Hague case has been carried out, not where parents have come to an agreement in the course of the procedure, or where private security companies were involved."
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1330	Let me first thank the representative Tajik for raising an important question about a very important issue. Before I go into the statistics, I would like to say that the Department is making significant efforts in international child Abduction cases to help resolve them as quickly as possible. However, when a child has been abducted from Norway to another country and a case under the Hague Convention is initiated, it is necessary to deal with the process in the country to which the child has been abducted. The experience is that the process is moving rapidly in most countries, while in some countries it is too long before a case is resolved. We do what we can to exercise pressure for matters to be dealt with as quickly as possible and in line with the purpose of a quick return. To the statistics: every six months statistics on civil child abduction cases are published. This applies both to cases where the child is taken away from Norway and to cases where the child is taken to Norway. The outcome of the cases is also published, as far as the outcome is known, in the same statistics. In the last five years, from 2009 to 2013, 252 children in a total of 177 cases have been abducted from Norway to abroad. This applies to abductions both to countries with which Norway cooperates in the Convention and to countries with which we do not cooperate in the Convention. Of these 177 cases, 136 were pending under the Hague Convention. The statistics do not publish the closing date for each case on an ongoing basis, but the status is updated by our six-monthly update. This implies that statistics currently show how many cases have been completed by 31 December 2013. Of 136 Hague cases in the period 2009-2013, 116 were closed on 31 December 2013. 64 of these ended up with the child being registered, i.e. approx. 55 pst. Our statistics do not distinguish how many children have been returned as a direct result of a judgment in The Hague case, but show whether or not the child has been returned. I am most concerned that there will be a return, and not how the return will be possible. A solution to these issues will often be an interaction with many contributing factors, such as: is a first stage in a Hague case to encourage the kidnapper to return voluntarily. Furthermore, mediation between parents is something that is tried in many Hague cases. Both where the abductor returns voluntarily and where the parents agree by mediation, the Hague case is resolved without being the result of a judgment. The fact that the cases are settled prior to a judgment means that they are resolved more quickly than in court proceedings and in a way that involves less conflict between parents. In these cases, judicial proceedings under the rules of the Hague Convention will nevertheless act as a risk behind the mirror. One cannot therefore claim that the Hague Convention as such is not effective because it does not end up with a return after a judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1347	I thank you for your answer. In the follow-up to this, I am tricked by the Council of State, which is responsible for Norwegian children returning to Norway after a judgment in The Hague?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1354	In principle, the kidnapper is responsible for returning a child who has been abducted in violation of the Hague Convention, and the authorities of the country to which the child has been abducted must carry out the actions necessary in their own country to ensure that the child returns to Norway. At the same time, I believe that we have a responsibility to assist those who are exposed to this kind of incredibly demanding situation, and the ministry is active and forward-looking in order to ensure such assistance. We've also had a working group that's looked at how the ministry has been working on these issues, to see if there's any potential for improvement. One of the potential for improvement that I think it is important to continue working with is that the department can contribute more effectively to mediation and that it is not left solely to the court.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1359	I understand that the Council of State points to the abductor and to the country to which the child is abducted. In some situations, however, the abductor finds that he is opposed to it and that the country does not give priority to it. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he wants Norwegian authorities to help this happen and to be a driver for this to happen. I wonder what the state council will actually do to be the kind of perpetrator of this sort of thing – where the abductor opposes it and the country doesn't prioritize it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1366	In those cases, which are often the most contentious issues, and which often create major problems for the children, our main tool is to press the authorities of the home country. We're doing it to a large extent, while we can contribute to a perhaps greater degree than is the case today, getting into the mediation position. The challenges with these issues are, of course, that the kidnapper is actively working to avoid being found by the authorities of his own country. Those things are very complicated, and they also show the complexity of these things. Our job is primarily to work very actively with the home country authorities to ensure that those matters are prioritised and to work in such a way that they receive the assistance we can provide in that connection, but the enforcement of the judgment will be regardless of the task of the child-leader country. I am very concerned that we should step up our efforts to facilitate the rapid return and help to press local authorities even more than we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1387	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1394	‘Recently, there have been several headlines in the media related to the manning situation in the prosecution authority. In particular, it has pointed to problems related to law enforcement. High turnovers and high work pressure on the individual lawyer characterise the everyday life of this important professional group, which is serious. The Legislature has a warning against developments. Does the Council agree that the situation is media-mediated, and what kind of action will the Council of State take?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1401	I am grateful that the representative addresses an important challenge, which has also received media coverage in recent weeks. Police are probably the most attractive workplace for newly educated lawyers. At the same time, it is a challenge that some lawyers end up in the police after a relatively short period of time, for example. inspections have been carried out in the last three years at the Greenland Police Station. It is to a very large extent the situation at the Greenland Police Station that has been the subject of part of the media coverage we have seen in the last few weeks. I think it's important that we take it seriously, but also that we see that Greenland Police Station is probably in a slightly special situation. A stay at the Greenland police station creates a very attractive lawyer, because the case case is very large, you get experienced very quickly, you get a lot of cases in court, and you become attractive both for internal appearances and for external lawyers. I think the picture is somewhat more nuanced than what is created based on the checks that have been done right at the Greenland police station. It doesn't make it a challenge, but I think it has to be nuanced. The situation of police lawyers is part of the investigation situation and the follow-up to criminal proceedings in the police, and in the past, including in reporting to the ministry, the Riksadvokat has expressed concern about the investigation situation and criminal proceedings. As early as last October, shortly after the government change, I commissioned the Police Directorate, in consultation with the National Attorney, to submit a report before the turn of the year on the investigation situation. That report is available. It points to major challenges in some police investigations, and it also fills an important gap in the police analysis. In the future, we want more attention to be paid to criminal proceedings than to what was in the police analysis committee's investigation. At the same time, I see it as absolutely vital to ensure a forward-looking and comprehensive police that the investigation is dealt with within a whole range of police activities. It is also important to stress the importance of focusing on all three main tasks of the police: prevention, investigation and preparedness; and not focusing on preparedness; of course, we have had a very strong focus on preparedness following the terrorist attack on Norway; at the expense of the other important tasks of the police. The increase in the number of provisions because of the lack of capacity I have also brought up with the Riksadvokat in a separate letter. It shows that there is a challenge when every police lawyer on average has 75 unresolved cases over three months of age. It is important to see all these challenges in context, and we address that issue clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1410	I thank you for your reply from the Council of State. The lawyers we're talking about here are dealing with particularly demanding things. They are responsible for the use of criminal law enforcement, the leader of the investigation in small and large cases and the caregiver to decide on charges and bring cases to justice. Therefore, it is also important that one recruits the best, while at the same time working every day they are so that they remain in the posts over time. These are issues where the individual police officer is central, but we also have a national responsibility to ensure the well-being of the prosecution, and it is worth pointing out that this applies to all police districts, not only in the capital. In debates on the police, it is often the case that one takes note of the number of police posts that have been assigned to the station, and one specifies how many new police high-school students have been added, but there is actually little observational awareness as to whether the station has been introduced to new prosecutors. It's a pity, because the police are one unit, and without prosecution, other parts of the work stop. The question is: will the Minister of Justice in the future also demand the Police Directorate that the prosecution unit be strengthened?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1419	One of the most important changes that happened in the Ministry of Justice and Defence after the government change in the autumn is – in my opinion – that we think in the context, that we see things in chains. It's quite right, as the representative Klinge points out, that if you strengthen part of the chain, but don't strengthen other parts of the chain, you create challenges. I think one of the consequences of the job of focusing on a few parts of the criminal case chain now is that we have some challenges in other areas. It's completely obvious, and it's a proper focus. It should have been an important focus, also for the previous government, to see the whole chain perspective and to strengthen the prosecution and prosecution side as such, so that one ensures that the job of newly educated policemen in clearing up more crime also has consequences in other parts of the chain. It is frustrating when you experience good results in one part of a large organization, but work in another part. I also believe the representative Klinge has a good point when she points out that this is a leadership responsibility, also at the police master level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1426	In VG 25 January we could read that in some prosecution groups in Oslo had 50 pst. of police lawyers ended or expired on leave of one year. It is clear that this is serious because of the important and demanding job the law firm has. It also has a significant impact on the speed with which criminal cases are dealt with, i.e. in the ultimate sense, the legal security of people. Police lawyers have long warned against this situation. In the Official Journal of Bergen in December 2013, we read that lawyers do not lead to overtime. One does not take out compensation, the bases grow, and frustration widens. We can't discuss pay policy directly here from the pulpit, but a central element is open pay to get the best lawyers. Will the Minister of Justice take the initiative to monitor and analyse the situation in the Public Prosecutor's Office so that one can provide a targeted package of measures to improve the situation? Does the Minister of Justice already have any thoughts about what can contribute most to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1431	The report I mentioned in my first answer addresses part of the research challenges. It's quite obvious that we need to see contexts, and that touring itself is a challenge. I believe that much of this can be solved by a management responsibility where one helps to ensure that the focus on the investigation, the prosecution lawyers and the prosecution side is increased. It could be about follow-up. It can be about pay. As the representative quite rightly says, we are not engaged in wage negotiations from Stortinget's pulpit. But it is quite obvious that there are some tools at the police master level that can be used to ensure that the tourniquet is not as high as it is in some places. What is also an important element is that the effectiveness of criminal proceedings would be better if the tournament were lower because more experienced prosecutors. I fully agree with the representative's concern. We address the challenges in our dialogue, both with the prosecution authorities and with the Police Directorate. It is absolutely vital that we solve part of the challenge of high turnovers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1440	‘In the autumn of 2011, the universities of Agder and Rogaland took up the first coals of three-year justudies. Several state colleges also offer three years of bachelor’s education in law. The first coals are now finishing their education. Many want to move on to a Master's degree at the University of Oslo, the University of Bergen or the University of Tromsø. As the system is today, these candidates must seek further admission via coordinated admission, based on the characteristics of secondary school. This is considered unreasonable. Can the Council of State contribute to a better solution for the transition to master's studies for these candidates?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1447	It is positive that many students in the Bachelor's programme in legal subjects want to continue their studies at master's level. That being said, these students have not been suggested an opportunity for further studies. There are limitations on capacity at master level, and only the best students are addressed to the integrated study programme. At the same time, I can be the first to say that it may seem strange that Bachelor's candidates have to compete with the diploma from high school when applying for admission to the master's degree. But this is the general rules for integrated master studies, not just in law. We've been aware of this challenge for a while. A working group was set up for, inter alia: to assess the needs and organisation of studies in legal subjects. In its report, the Working Group has proposed a number of measures, including: the future organisation of legal education in Norway. The report has been at the hearing and most consultation opinions support the proposal of the working group that it be possible to divide the integrated five-year master's degree in law into a three-year Bachelor's degree and a two-year master's degree. Once upon a time, most of the studies are organized today. So I've been given clear advice, and that's what I'm going to follow. I want to facilitate a division of the integrated Master's in Law into a 3+2 scheme for the universities that want it. There are many good arguments for this. As Tveiten Benestad refers to, it will then be possible for Bachelor's candidates to compete in master's degree studies based on the bachelor's degree degrees. This will also make the study more flexible. I am also engaged in a good division of labour in the university and higher education sectors. It may seem reasonable that Bachelor's courses in legal subjects are offered by several institutions around the country, but that master's education is concentrated in fewer places of study. Another important factor I want to emphasise is the need of society for labour. The background to the establishment of several Bachelor's programmes in legal subjects was society's need for just such candidates. Candidates with three-year legal education can fill a wide range of positions, particularly in the public sector. But it is also important to arrange for bachelor's candidates to apply for master's studies, both in law and other subjects. I therefore very much appreciate the question from the questioner. We just notice that we're both concerned with good transitions between the bachelor and master levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1462	I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for a thorough answer. I am very happy to hear that it will now be arranged for a breakdown of the five-year integrated master's study into a 3+2 scheme for the universities that want it. I hope that the opportunity will be followed up by one or more of the universities that offer master's studies today. So it's that implementation takes time. Now we have a coal that is about to complete its bachelor's studies this year. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State see an opportunity for transitional arrangements for those students who are already finishing their studies and who are leaving in the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1469	I think it's important to assume that this is a balance between what is reasonable and the institutions' own autonomy, that is, the ability of the institutions to decide, which has been and should be great. I understand that these may be problems for those who are in the process today. I will also consider transitional arrangements, but will not make any clear promise that it will be settled for those who are in the problem today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1476	I thank you again for the answer. Predictability is important for both students and educational institutions. As a student, it is important to experience that opportunities are not closed, but are opened when good results are available. That's why it's important for these students to get a better solution. I hope that the new scheme will be implemented relatively quickly. In the meantime, I also hope that the study sites can work together on a transitional solution. I would like to ask the Council of State: how will he and his department address any proposals for transitional arrangements designed in cooperation between the institutions concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1485	I believe that the representative points to a very important point, namely that this must be done in cooperation and dialogue with the sector, because it involves more institutions. I would be positive to look at any proposals for transitional arrangements that the institutions make after having had dialogue between themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1494	«Not long ago I met 1ST class at Randaberg secondary school in Rogaland, where the students had seen themselves tired of Facebook, Twitter, games and blogs stealing their attention away from teaching. The class now deletes the computer when they don't need it. Students challenge us politicians and call for a strategy to ensure that digital aids are used sensibly and do not steal attention from education. How does the Council of State think digital aids can be used as reasonably as possible in education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1501	First I want to say that this sounds like a very wise and sensible class. I think it's a good question to address. Digital skills are one of the basic skills to learn at school. It's obvious that the school also has to be an arena, that is, a place where you use digital tools. It cannot be that the school hangs again 30 years back in time. At the same time, there is a real problem in many places: if you are always connected, the temptation can become very great, for example. spending time on Facebook or Twitter. You also see in this room that it's not exactly necessarily what happens where you are, that gets the most attention. I think it makes sense for schools, teachers and students to agree on some rules together if they do. If not, my second starting point is that this is the teacher's area. The teacher is the head of the classroom, and the teacher must also be able to decide to use digital tools in his teaching, as the teacher thinks it's best. Obviously, it's not an option to ignore the basics of digital skills, so you can't choose to teach it to students. I don't think that's a good idea. But one teacher must be able to say that now we're putting away the computers, that now we're just going to be on those and those sides, or that some hours don't have PC usage at all. I think that makes sense, and I also fully support that. It's not a prerequisite that teachers and students agree on it together, but it's clear that this situation where teachers and students actually agree that it's good for learning is even better. So the next question is: do we need a national strategy? It is Centres for ICT in education and training that are responsible for the use of ICT, both its prevalence and its use in a sensible way. The center has a guidance set that deals with just how to use digital tools, and how to use it as a class leader, i.e. learn, in the most sensible way possible. I also know that Rogaland County has had a project to put digital competence and digital class management on the agenda, and it seems that it has also had a function. I am probably skeptical about it, or I am against it, making a nationally binding strategy. The reason for this is that we simply have to trust that the school and the individual learner can handle it. But I'm very much in favour of schools making guidelines and discussing this, and schools that decide to do what they've done in Randaberg want my full support. It must be allowed to say that for a few hours and at some point we put away the PC, and I think that also makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1508	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Both I and the Council of State are of the generation that, in both the AUF and the Young Right, struggled for the computer to enter the classroom. But it was at some point without Facebook and Twitter, so I'm glad the government council is now taking the signals from the teachers and the students who are in the classroom every day. I know that the class is following the Randaberg question mark now, and I think they'll be happy when they see that the Council of State is taking the matter further. They even bought champagne shower, so maybe it's toasted in champagne shower now. The Council of State stressed that the teacher has an important responsibility, and I agree with that, but the teachers and students I've talked to are asking for a tool for how to deal with this more easily. I don't think one solves this problem school for school, but hopes the council can join in and see that the issue is national. I hope the Council of State agrees that this is a national task, and that you can look at how a national team can provide teachers and schools with tools so that they can better deal with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1517	I agree with that, and I want to say that the schools have the tools in the sense that both a school and a teacher have, and should have, the opportunity to say that now we put away the PCs – just to use it as an example – or that now we put the mobile phones again outside the classroom. There are schools that have started it too, right enough at primary level – that they collect cell phones. I also believe that this should be the case. So, as I said, there's some national tips on how to use this in a reasonable way. Making them more detailed, I'm a little bit unsure about how to work, because it's very difficult to make a standard, the national rule for when the students are going to have the PC up, and when the students are going to have the PC down, which fits in all situations. It can also be thought that in some educational situations it may be useful to use Facebook as a learning tool, so it must also be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1524	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think I hear that this is not the last thing we belong to this issue. If the Council of State also wants to meet students who have a conscious relationship with computer use, I can highly recommend a visit to Randaberg secondary school. There are many reflected students in Norwegian school, but this class impressed me especially. As we say in Stavanger, they took the cake. I agree with the students that there's no sense in data about someone not knowing how to use it. My goal to address this is not only to talk about the limitations of computer use, but also about how one can use it better. Societal teacher Stig Ellingsen told me that the teachers got a greater workload when one went in for the computer for all the students – just the time it takes to ask everyone to put down the PC, record notebooks and all that. I noticed that the Council of State is concerned that teachers' time in classrooms is to be used for learning. In view of not just looking at the constraints, I'll also challenge the Council of State to say something about what he'll do to just be able to use computers better, about a talking about programs, apps and that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1531	Three points – the first point is a very important point: it's not the number of computers or the number of iPads that provide digital competence – that's the way you use it. There's enough examples of how it's also possible to get less learning left by all the students sitting on a PC, so I think that's a very important point. Point two: I mean, this is very much about class management. Again, it comes back to the teacher. As a school owner, Rogaland County has been involved in strengthening class management, and has also been concerned about how to use the digital tools in education. I'd like to see if you can encourage it in a better way. So that's the third point, and I have that as a general starting point: although my answer is that these tools – that is, the possibilities to regulate this – exist, and the tools are there in the individual school, my starting point is that if the teachers say that the rules are too vague, or that they don't perceive it that way, it's always worth looking at whether the rules can get better, or whether the tools need to be clearer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1544	‘Children and young people are among those most easily affected by the pollutants indoor air. Many schools and kindergartens have a bad physical environment. Since the incidence of asthma and allergies is high, especially among children and young people, it is important that indoor climates are best available in kindergarten, school and other public areas. In accordance with the Training Act, all the elephants in the primary school and further education are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. What does the government want to do to secure all the elephants with this right?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1551	A lot is being built. A lot of new building is being built, and there is a lot of upgrading around Norwegian municipalities, and that is very good. It's good for physical organization, i.e. for disabled people or people with different adaptation needs, and it's important for the indoor climate. It's a very important issue to address. Between 10 pst. and 20 pst. students have different asthma reserves, and it is obvious that for a government that is occupied by a knowledge school where all children are to learn what to do, the indoor climate is also important. There are two political answers to that. The first answer is that it's the school owner, the municipality and the county municipality, who have the primary responsibility for this, so the most important thing to do locally in a school if the school is not in order is to tell the municipality. Then we have to make sure that the municipality has enough arms and room to upgrade school buildings. But the second answer is that even though the municipality and county council have the primary responsibility, this is such an important matter that we as national politicians have decided to do more. Therefore, there is a separate loan arrangement with interest compensation that municipalities and county councils can use. In 2009 a framework of 15 billion was granted. kr for that purpose, distributed over eight years. There are funds that municipalities can apply for in-school upgrade projects. In addition to the interest-reimbursement scheme, the County of Fylkesen provides guidance for municipalities. We also have provisions for monitoring compliance with legislation on the physical school environment. So next to stressing that the school owner has a natural and great responsibility, we have government instruments, for example. through this system and supervision, which will be followed up by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1560	I would like to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge sees the link between indoor climate and learning and that he points to local responsibility. Norwegian municipalities are obliged to ensure the indoor climate according to the training laws and regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools that came in 1996. It was 18 years ago, and studies show that there are still a lot of schools that have not approved indoor climates. The Labour Inspectorate carried out a survey in 2012 that led to nine out of ten schools being ordered to repair them, and there are schools that are being shut down by the Labour Inspectorate. My point and my concern is that they are linked by the Labour Inspectorate, not by the training laws and regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. So does the Council of State think that children and young people have enough protection to ensure a good enough working environment where they are obliged to go?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1567	It's an interesting legal question. I don't think it's so relevant politically, because for the students and the teachers who are there, it's a bit of a hippie who likes whether it's the Labour Inspectorate or someone else going in. I also believe it is important that the county councillors around have an inspection responsibility and are to ensure that the rules are respected. Anyone who has been in a local government knows that you would like to have the money to clean up all the schools. The reason why this takes time – and it is not to hide that it takes some time – is that it costs money. It must be given priority in the municipal budgets. I would also like to say that, together with the Minister of Health and Welfare, I will sit down and see if there is anything more the State can do – alongside the measures we have, among other things. a loan framework and interest compensation, which is a government grant for the upgrading of school buildings. But we're also going to see if there are any other tools we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1576	The Council of State says that there is in a way a hippie as to whether the school is closed by the Labour Inspectorate or by the local authority's own supervision. But it's not a good idea if it's like this in Norway that children and young people have worse legal protection than adult workers. I think it's a task for national authorities, for the Minister of Knowledge, to look at it and get better legal protection – a law that guarantees children and young people a school they don't get sick of. It was shown in economics. Yeah, of course it costs. In its survey, the Labour Inspectorate said that the lack of maintenance is not primarily about economics, but about the lack of priority, the lack of competence and, not least, the lack of willingness to work prevention. I would like to ask again the same question: does the Minister of Knowledge think it is okay for the municipalities to ignore the training laws and the regulations on environmental health protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1585	The answer to that is no. With luck as a luck, I meant, let's not make this primarily a legal question. I believe that the most important thing in politics is that the indoor climate improves, and that schools where the indoor climate is unwarrantable – for the sake of students and for the sake of those who work there, of course. This is also why priority should be given to setting funds, and that municipalities have adequate planning procedures. I think it's the most important thing. But I think that is also one thing that should confront and ask for – in all local democratic matters – its local politicians. In addition, I believe that the indoor climate is such an important matter that we cannot just say that the municipalities should take full responsibility alone. That is why we have a state system that makes the municipalities get extra funds. They have the opportunity to search. That arrangement was not made by this government, it was adopted under the previous government. It's a scheme that we're going to continue with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1596	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-02.ana.ud28e1609	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
