ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e61	The representatives of Hans Fredrik Gruvan, Roy Steffensen, Torgeir Knag County, and Sonja Mandt, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of the Representative of Kristian Norheim on 10 and 11 April to attend the Nordic-Baltic Committee of Defence Chairs in Vilnius from the representative of Arild Grande on parental leave from 10 April to 28 April from the representative of Karianne O. Heavy on welfare leave from 22 April to 27 April and subsequently parental leave from 28 April to 20 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen 10 April For Nord-Trøndelag County: Jorid Holstad Nordmelan 10 April and 23-24. April For Sør-Trøndelag County: Audun Otterstad 23-24. from April and 6 May to 20 June;
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e121	Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen and Jorid Holstad Nordmelan are present and will take the seat. The representative, Eva Kristin Hansen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e126	On behalf of the representatives of Dag Terje Andersen, Trond Giske and myself, I would like to make a proposal to allow the use of lead hail outside wetlands and shooting paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e131	The representative, Else-May Botten, will put forward a proposal for a representative. You snuck in the queue - it's a long queue, come on!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e136	In that case it was the President who asked me to sob! I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Knut Storberget, Odd Omland, Ingrid Heggø and myself to impose a life jacket in recreational boats (Amendment to the Law on Leisure and Small Boats) [[small boat law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e143	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e146	I am delighted, on behalf of Kjetil Kjeseth and myself, to promote a representative proposal to reduce the use of palm oil in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e151	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e155	On behalf of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal to secure power from land-solution for the entire Utsira height.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e160	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e163	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Storing Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Ivar Odnes and myself to introduce an hour of physical activity every day in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e168	And the representative, Trine Skei Grande, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e171	I don't know what determines the order. At least there are not the number of party leaders as proposers, because I want to make a proposal on behalf of Audun Lysbakken, Knut Arild Hareide, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Rasmus Hansson and myself on the stop in the Norwegian implementation of the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e176	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e190	This case concerns the granting by the Storting of its consent to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of the EU Regulation on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products. Biocidal products are used to control undesirable organisms. Examples of biocidal products are rodenticides, wood preservatives, insecticides, disinfectants and bottoms for boats. Several biocides and biocidal products contain substances that present a risk to health and the environment. There are very thorough assessments on the basis of which approval of this type of substance and product is granted. The Biocidal Products Regulation repeals and replaces the existing Biocidal Products Directive. The new Regulation shall contribute to an even safer use of biocidal products with a view to protecting health and the environment, as well as to simplifying legislation and promoting incentives for industry to develop safer products for harm reduction. It will also provide more harmonisation and full implementation in the EU/EEA area. The Biocidal Products Regulation took effect on 1 September 2013. It is important to incorporate the Regulation into the EEA Agreement as quickly as possible, in order to give Norway a level and up-to-date regulatory framework. It is important that Norway’s legislation in this area is as good as in the rest of the EU, both in terms of health and the environment and the need for a level playing field with the rest of the EU Member States. The implementation of the Regulation does not require legislative amendment. It is implemented by a new biocidal regulation, which replaces the 2003 biocidal regulation. The position of the Energy and Environment Committee is unanimous in the consent of the Stortinget to the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee that the Regulation should be incorporated into the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e205	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e219	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e226	The Health and Welfare Committee has examined a proposal by the depositors Audun Lysbakken and Bård Vegar Solhjell on safe and secure care through long-term agreements with ideal actors. Proposals continue to play an important role in the care of drug users and to need secure agreements and clear conditions. It is noted that supply has often led to the closure of important treatment provision, although quality has been good. Health South-East has been shown to enter into ongoing agreements with non-profit players in the drug field in 2012, and proposers believe that all healthcare professionals should be instructed to do so. A joint committee is behind the proposalers in the view that an important commitment to good drug treatment is to build up safe and as long-term treatment conditions as possible. The Committee emphasises that care is a public responsibility, but that the private sector is an important contributor, and that private and non-profit sector accounts for a total of 58 pst. of the total daily capacity for multidisciplinary specialised treatment. The Committee recognises the historical partnership between public and non-profit organisations in the health and social sectors and particularly points to the important work being done by non-profit organisations in the field of drugs. The Committee agrees with what the Council of State also states that regional health professionals must seek to exploit the possibilities under the public procurement legislation and the legal framework provided for by the EEA Agreement. The Committee welcomes the fact that Health South-East has moved on to continuing agreements in the field of drugs. The Committee has noted that a number of hearing bodies are in agreement with the proposal for a representative. The proposers suggest that health professionals should be instructed to give priority to non-profit actors over commercial ones when purchasing private institutional premises. The Committee emphasises the need to recognise all actors in the care of drug users, but points out that non-profit actors provide a very large proportion of the public supply. The Committee believes that it is good that priorities have already been made for the ideals by prioritising in the 2014 state budget a growth for ideal treatment sites prior to drug treatment equivalent to 200 sites. The examination of these matters within the Committee has taken time, since the issue of the EU's revised Directive on public procurement will be able to prevent Norway from passing on the exemption that one has had to reserve for non-profit organisations when purchasing more than EUR 750000 after 1 January 2016. The Committee is divided into a view on requiring health professionals to give priority to non-profit-making over private providers if quality and content requirements are met. The Committee is also divided into a view on replacing, in new agreements with non-profit providers and drug treatment services, time-limited contracts with long-term cooperation agreements with options for cancellation. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the SV, propose this, and I would like to address this proposal on behalf of these parties. The centre party has programmed that we will expand our cooperation with the voluntary sector by introducing long-term and negotiated quality and price agreements. We generally believe that supply is a bad way to ensure the quality and diversity of treatment provision. Experience has shown that this on the contrary leads to monopolistic situations and to the uniformisation of supply. The Hagen Committee stressed that social value creation should be provided in the form of voluntary organisations and actions as well as new forms of user cooperation, with significantly greater space and levers in operation and the future development of care services and welfare arrangements. They propose that by 2020 an estimated 25 pst. of the overall care sector be organised and run as a non-profit enterprise. Today, this part is barely 5 pst. The central party is against the EEA Agreement, and we are in agreement with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party on a note that underlines the importance of the government now doing what it can to ensure that one can continue today's practice, and that one does so in good time before deciding on the current changes to the EU directives to be incorporated into Norwegian law. Finally, I would like to thank the representative of Olaug Bollestad from the Christian People's Party for her efforts in this matter for the voluntary and non-profit organizations, and I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is in agreement with the Central Party, the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party today. I would also like to end by saying that I appreciate the fact that the Minister for Health has now decided that the government should continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector, because there has been some uncertainty about this in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e254	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e257	This document 8 by the representatives Lysbakken and Solhjell is supported by four parties. It's the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party as well as SV. These batches are requested by the government to require health care establishments to give priority to non-profit providers when purchasing private institutional premises, in preference to other actors, provided that the quality and content requirements are met. We want temporary contracts, i.e. on the conclusion of new agreements with non-profit providers of drug treatment services. tenders shall be replaced by long-term cooperation agreements with the possibility of termination. The ideal sector has played a very important role in building up health and rehabilitation provision here in the country. In many places, NPISHs went early ahead and provided services to the population that no one else was able to deliver. Not least to chronically ill and vulnerable patients and users, ideal actors have done a very important job. We want them to do it in the future as well. In the big news of tomorrow's care, as the red-green government announced last year, the non-profit sector has been promoted as an even more important partner in providing good health and care services. Therefore, the ideal actors need secure agreements and clear conditions. The working party is pleased that the drug field was strengthened by over 1 billion. DKr between 2006 and 2012, while municipal drug supply received nearly 360 million. kr more. There is still a need to strengthen the drug sector, especially in municipalities. We have to avoid bidding where ideals have to compete with commercial providers, because many of the ideal actors offer pay and pension conditions in line with public policy, while commercial companies can operate with worse conditions for their employees. This gives rise to very unfair competition, where we see that good ideal actors have to give up. This has led to an unforeseeable situation for the employees of such institutions, who might rather apply to other employers. It is important to stress that it is the public health sector that is responsible for the best treatment for Ruspacers, adapted to the needs of the individual. This means that the public should have good, multidisciplinary healthcare for patients under their own control, and then enter into agreements with private but, in particular, non-profit providers, as an important complement. I am therefore concerned about the government’s ‘free treatment choice’ model in public health care, which according to the Minister of Health is to be introduced first for patients in the field of drugs and psychiatry. This means that all private actors who want to provide healthcare and who meet specific quality requirements can do so and get paid by the public. Such funding will include, inter alia: could lead to increased use of unit prices in healthcare, which would not be a good thing for vulnerable patients who need long-term and complex healthcare. There are many reasons why ideal actors should be preferred to commercial ones when public contracts for cooperation are to be concluded. Research both at home and in the United States and in Europe shows that, in the long term, non-profit actors score far better on a range of quality parameters than commercial ones, and in particular this is reflected in a large proportion of these international health groups in the care services. Another serious argument is that the money we spend on health and care should go as unabated as possible for the treatment of patients and users as well as for the benefit of international companies. That is why this proposal shows that we will put the sickest and most vulnerable patients first, by proposing that non-profit actors be preferred as partners to the public in drug treatment. We are aware that the EU has adopted a directive that makes it difficult to compete separately, but we therefore expect the government to work hard to find the space for action that can be available to strengthen, promise and prioritize cooperation with the non-profit sector in welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e276	Social welfare is primarily about help when you need it. It's about competent help, it's about available treatment, early effort and good rehabilitation. At the end of the second tertiary in 2013, about 2,500 drug addicts were waiting for treatment. In other words, there are too many sick and addicted people in line for safe care. It is a fact that during the red-green reign we experienced that good treatment institutions were laid down. The right-wing Party government believes that a significant change is necessary for this patient group. This change is about giving free treatment options, so that patients may actually have the opportunity to choose the treatment institutions in which they themselves believe among those who are officially approved and to use the capacity that is available. If drug addicts today choose a different treatment institution from the one they are offered, they often move to the back of the queue and risk waiting for a long time, perhaps this year. It is not difficult to understand that it is very likely that motivation will be lost if you have to wait a long time for the institution to be accommodated. We also see from the statistics that, not within any patient group, there is so much disqualification from granting rights to treatment to actual attendance as in this patient group. The minority proposal today is to oblige health establishments to give priority to the non-profit actors over other actors and to replace fixed-term contracts with long-term cooperation agreements. It therefore does not allow the EU directive after 2016, and it will be impossible to implement it. The majority today, the Progress Party, Left, Right and Christian People's Party, have asked the government to use the action space until 2016. There is no political disagreement that NPISHs constitute an important and necessary contribution to drug care. There is, of course, a good interaction between public and private offerings with all types of ownership that create the important diversity needed by these patients, and it is to use all forces that can reduce the waiting time for this patient group – a waiting time that can be life-threatening. There is, of course, real competition for missions between different actors today, and in many cases, ideal actors come out victorious, because they have a high level of competence, they have good professional environments, they have a long experience, and they achieve good patient outcomes. Nevertheless, the new government is well aware that there are challenges for some actors, in particular challenges associated with high pension costs. There are challenges that the government has explicitly said it should follow up in close cooperation with the ideal actors. I noticed at the hearing in the committee that one of the people who was there said very clearly that they wanted a government that does not continue to contribute to the death of an institution. They believed that 25 offers had been dropped in the last few years, and that the pace of treatment facilities that had been dropped had increased. In the right, we are therefore pleased that, after the election, we have received a government that actively prioritises increasing the treatment capacity of drug care – by reintroducing the rule that the growth of the drug field is greater than that of the somatic environment in each health enterprise, by purchasing 200 more treatment sites for drug addicts in ideal establishments in the budget for 2014, by actively expressing that the action profile of those sites will also apply to long-term sites, by strengthening regional health establishments by 255 million. kr, the proportion of drug use is important, by notifying a new escalation plan in the field of drug use and by notifying a reform of free treatment options for drug users. It is this that can help to create a real change in the life situation of many addicted patients and their families. It is all these measures that ensure that we create safe care.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e293	Today, we are going to consider a proposal for a representative dealing with the issue of drug trafficking. But unfortunately, this time it's also about who's going to provide the service, and not about the individuals who need it. The proposal states that ‘promotional competitions have led to the reduction of important treatment provision, despite good quality’. This is directly wrong. In recent years I have been sitting on budget hearings and having heard from one another that the tight budgets and the distortion of the offer of more outpatient short-term public treatment are a threat to diversity and good, traditional treatment institutions. So it is not the tenders as such that have been the main problem, but rather a wild red-green policy. The government is now clearing up this. Substantial increases in resources and earmarked means of long-term private and non-profit treatment mean that we are now turning the negative trend and giving room for diversity and quality. At the hearing of the case we got a very good picture of why the discussion about ideal actors or not gets so wrong. Sigma Nord himself says at the hearing that they are the only private non-ideal drug treatment institution that has an agreement with a regional health company. Since 1998, they have helped countless people out of the deepest despair and have for years won contracts through open competitions. The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party claim in their comments that only the non-profit actors have pension costs equal to the specialist health service. Sigma Nord could tell that they also have pension liabilities equal to the ideals. I hope their testimony at the hearing became a wake-up call for those who still come with a drag park about individuals who only run social dumping, have head offices in tax havens and suction pipes in the state treasury. Such statements are simply incalculable and, in most cases, very wrong. Despite 58 pst. by multidisciplinary specialised treatment by private individuals, and that these again are almost exclusively ideal, the draft representative claims that the ideals are losing on price. This is claimed despite the fact that the price is not decisive for which supplier is selected. It is a pity that it is not possible to discuss such matters without using arguments that are not valid. I do not want any policy that puts ideology ahead of individuals and results. And I wonder if other patient groups would have accepted that their ability to treat should be governed by the ownership of the institution over quality and performance. By making such claims, you show an attitude towards drug addiction that I don't want to be part of. I am therefore pleased that the Medical Association said, ‘Focus must primarily be on the service provided — and the quality of it, and not who delivers the services.’ But we're despite the fact that many have had to downgrade their offer in recent years, so lucky that we can now manage to offer diversity and quality in most places in our country. The ideals have dominated the market and will continue to do so, precisely because they are good, and because they deliver quality. In his two letters, the Minister of Health stressed the importance of a real escalation for the field of drugs. For this reason, 200 long-term treatment sites have been earmarked for non-profit institutions serving households, as well as funds from 300 million. kr earmarked for the purchase of private services should also go to such treatment. Regional health establishments may choose whether to extend already concluded contracts or to extend them with new ones. This is very important in order to achieve services across the country and to create a diversity that also captures the diversity that drug addicts themselves represent. With different luggage and different drug history as a background, we need different offers. It's about putting the addict a little bit more in the center and not just talking about the provider. The Minister of Health has stressed that the government will continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector on the provision of health and social services and intends to expand and strengthen it. The Minister of Health has also stressed that the government will use the space provided by the legislation to conclude long-term or ongoing agreements with them. The right-wing Party government strengthens the care of the drug in terms of content, scope and duration, as well as strengthening the ideal place of care in the care of the drug. To the proposal itself: the Party of Presidents will vote against. It is such that, from the time we adopted the State budget and the adoption of new long-term positions, it takes a long time. Many seriously ill people are waiting for help — with life as an effort. Thus, regional health companies’ mission documents have been sent out a long time ago, and the purchase of places is under way. I'm sorry that the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are willing to support a proposal that, in the worst case, could lead to the process being stopped. This is not the case for the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e327	We have a foundation anniversary this year, and a lot happened in Norwegian communities in the last century. Socially, we had a big challenge that we had an unfathomable number of people who were squandered with alcohol abuse. That's why we arrived in 1906, and there were 1,600 people in this town who gathered in a congregation house to collect money to make a house and run a care for people like that. It was the first home of the Blue Cross. This service grew in our country. Why am I saying this? Well, because it is the ideal sector that has always had knowledge and care for the drug user, who has had authority and authority from the public to manage it. The public itself was not early enough on the track. It was idealism and care for this particular group that brought together a wide range of services based on idealism and knowledge. This is still in the hands of the ideal actors today. For the Christian People's Party, this is important. The ideal actors need long-termity and predictability. They need it for their owner's organisations, because they base a lot of their work on an ideal basis and gifts they've received. They focus on the human resources they have, they have a responsibility when building new buildings, and they are responsible for the patients they have taken responsibility for. They want predictability and diversity, they want to be able to provide good care, and they are absolutely sure that they will provide knowledge and quality. Many of these in the non-profit sector have followed the drug user not only one mile, but seven times seven miles – those who need it the most. Russoorgen is the public responsibility, but it would never have been possible to take responsibility if you hadn't had the non-profit sector with you. It is true – as has been said from the pulpit – that many of the daily seats are also in the non-profit sector today, and we must know to play our talents well, so that we can safeguard the capacity they actually have. I think it is great that there has been a proposal for a representative to take responsibility for the non-profit sector. At the same time, I would like to say that we, who have been in the municipalities, have experienced that the previous government has actually closed down – according to tendering procedures – the non-profit sector. I can mention the Base Center Blue Cross in the Sandnes and Blue Cross Clinics in Hordaland. They had to cancel their offers, and others took over. That's not good enough. The same thing happened when we became aware of an EU directive that should have been dealt with by the previous government, and which we are now facing as a challenge: how do we do it after 2016? The Christian People's Party also wants to pay tribute to the new government, which has said that they want to bet on the rush and psychiatry, which has given 200 new places, and which has given 343 million. SEK for low-threshold services in municipalities. It's very good, but the Christian People's Party is also concerned about doing what you can for the non-profit sector. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with what the minister has done in the Health West. We have asked that non-profit actors get six years plus two years in option agreements. We're happy about that. But the other healthcare companies are also going to tender, and we want to make sure that the non-profit sector gets that part of the cake that they have been with and built up and spent a lot of the voluntary gifts for over many years. The Christian People's Party has always meant, and will believe, that we are dependent on the non-profit sector. We have to do everything we can to safeguard the skills and idealism they possess in order to provide enough care and space for those who need it all, most of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e346	For the Left, it is important to clarify that it is the patient who comes first, not the supplier. We believe that, in order to develop the provision of services to drug addicts, it is important to have a diversity of actors, sufficient capacity and increased ability to carry out research and development in the sector. This requires access to capital and risk and more interaction with actors, both in Norway and, in fact, in other countries. At present, purely commercial operators account for a very small share of the supply market in drug care in Norway. If in the future there would be a challenge, the Left is willing to consider measures to regulate it, such as: a dividend cap for such suppliers – in the same way that we have in the education sector. But as of today this is very little topical. For the Left, voluntary and non-profit actors are an important resource in the health and welfare service as a whole. We want to create stable framework conditions and predictability for suppliers who belong to what we call the third sector, and who we believe make important contributions both to capacity, professionalism, innovation, service – not least – efficiency, organisation, and provide added value in terms of idealism and volunteering, on which the representative of Bollestad was very much involved in his contribution. It is important for us not to exclude good offers to patients based on the company form of suppliers. Several public limited liability companies in Norway today have found it most appropriate to organise themselves in a form of a limited liability company, both non-profit-making and public enterprises. It is also worth noting that there are family-owned businesses with significant elements of idealism. If we look back a little bit, there is reason to give the red-green government credit for the work of concluding a written agreement with voluntary and non-profit actors to ensure their framework conditions. It is an important recognition of this sector, but it also needs to provide economic predictability that contributes to strengthening the framework conditions for the provision of a professional service at the level we expect. In the new acquisition directives adopted in the EU, it opens up inter alia: for innovation partnerships as a new procurement procedure. This will allow health enterprises – as the Left will – to grant free hospital choice and conclude long-term partnership agreements with the third sector – or individual actors for that part. Examples of innovation agreements that may be current for the third sector include: in user involvement, organisation or new technologies. Both innovation and the role of the third sector in the health sector should find their place in the new health and health plan to be discussed by the Stortinge in a year’s time. We want to look forward and see new opportunities. If you look back a little bit, you might wonder if the proposal we're discussing today is a settlement with its own inadequacy. The representative of Bollestad was in a purchase directive that came a little surprising to all of us, and that the previous government had not pushed so much on what we would have liked them to do. We've discussed post-employment obligations, as the non-profit actors say, is one of the major challenges for them, and they, if they had been relieved of it, are able to compete well with the private actors about. In addition, regional health firms see that there is a very large difference in practice. There is also a signal that there has been little political management of regional health enterprises and health enterprises in this sector. A concrete example to refer to is in many ways the Finnmark collective. In Finnmark, there are large distances, and there are few providers. This was in time established by Finnmark County and local municipalities. It has a pension obligation, but is today organised as a foundation and meets all these challenges of current contractual and framework conditions that we, among other things, have. discusses today. Here the red-green government had a good opportunity to govern and intervene if it had been relevant. But it hasn't happened, and there have been several institutions à la Finnmark's collective, which originated in the public, which is now the foundation, and which are not governed. We've lost a lot of capacity on the road in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e367	Perhaps the most enriching thing I've done in my political life is the years I traveled around and met Norwegian child-rescue children – amazing lion's dance stories and many tough fates, but also many who despite the most incredible odds and managed. I used to ask them, if there was one thing they wanted to change in Norwegian child protection, what would they have changed? I remember very well a 16-year-old girl from the West somewhere, who looked right at me and said, "Then I would cancel the bids." It was an answer that surprised me a little, because there are not so many 16-year-olds who are concerned with public procurement rules. But for her this was very serious, for it was about that she had several times lost her home because it had lost the bidding process. Therefore, the red-green government – with SV in the Ministry of Children – removed the tenders in the State Child Protection. At the same time, the grounds for withdrawing the tenders from the care services are the same. It's about creating security that the offers that people with drug problems need are there when they need it, and it's about creating security that non-profit organisations get the opportunity to build professional environments that can last over time, thus giving the best offer to addicted people. We know that NPISHs have made a decisive contribution to the Norwegian welfare state. They've been for innovation, they've made sure that the money goes unabated to those who need care – instead of what you get in big commercial companies, where a substantial part of the money we give for better care, instead goes for dividends to the shareholders – and they've provided tidy working conditions, in line with what the public has. When Sigma Nord is pushed forward by the right side of this debate, I must remind you that the hearing made it clear that Sigma Nord was just an institution that does not operate with dividends to external owners, but operates for all practical purposes as an ideal actor. The challenge is that today we are in a situation where we can get a great deal of insight from large commercial players into Norwegian welfare. The ideal actors will lose most of that. When the right parts of this room say they're so busy with the ideals, I'll say, listen to the ideals, then! They say with gravity that this is what is needed, and there is one thing the non-profit organisations have highlighted in recent years as a reason why many institutions have bowed down, it is precisely the tenders. Then I think there's a lot of empty words from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, which have been talking for eight years about how bad this institutional death is. I agree with the heart that the red-green government should have done more, and therefore pressured SV through a stoppage in child protection, and that is why we worked to get this done in the care of the cattle, and it happened in Health South-East. But now, when the right side has the chance to do something, they won't use the most important tool – because the idea of competition is more important. The only party from the previous opposition that is consistent is the Christian People's Party, and I would like to praise them for that. I am particularly surprised and disappointed at the position of the Left, which has always been a defender of the ideal organizations. It must be a great wonder among all the non-profit actors in Norwegian law enforcement that the Left – which is at the tip of the Stortinget – are the ones who ensure that they must continue to compete with commercial actors. I think a lot of people notice that. So to try to push the new EU directive in front of us: what we have been told by the government is that the new EU directive excludes the possibility of own bidding rounds for ideals, but not for what this proposal is about, which are long-term agreements. I received a reply from the Minister of Industry on 25 February. There, the Minister of Industry writes that the government wants this space of action to be used to the maximum extent possible, so that contracting authorities can conclude long-term or ongoing agreements, where appropriate, to ensure good and stable services for users and patients. Furthermore, the Minister of Industry writes that increased use of long-term and ongoing agreements will also contribute to a more stable framework for NPISHs providing health and social services. I would like to ask the Minister of Health in his statement to clarify that this is not what was said in the intervention of the representative, that it is impossible to implement this proposal. I also find it strange that the government parties are voting against what the Minister of Industry apparently thought was a good idea in his reply to me. In fact, the provisions of the EU Directive strengthen the basis for our proposal, because another instrument, namely own rounds of tenders, can no longer be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e384	I will be back at the end of my article by the representative Audun Lysbakken. He goes astray in his own rhetoric, and he also makes the policies of the previous government in a false way. This matter concerns the government. We have already made a strong commitment to strengthening the provision of drug addicts. We are also committed to ensuring good cooperation between the public and the ideals that provide health and care services. The escalation plan for the drug field did not deliver the promise that the sector needed, so the government will establish a new escalation plan to contribute to more holistic services, shorter waiting time and better quality. We want to involve trades, interests and users from the organisations, so that we ensure a good process where everyone is involved. Work on the plan is in progress, but to get a good plan, it will, of course, take some time to prepare it. This is why we have already taken some steps to strengthen the provision of drug addicts from 2014. It is added to the purchase of 200 new treatment sites from non-profit institutions. These are large-scale disposals, aimed exclusively at ideals. In that acquisition, there is also a new profile, namely that one aims at longer-term treatment and states that there should be provision of therapeutic communities in all health regions. In addition, one shall use an additional 255 million. kr within the drug field, mental health and rehabilitation for purchases from private individuals. In the management of regional health companies for the current year, I have asked that the capacity also in the existing contracts be used quickly and in the framework of public procurement legislation. At the same time, we are committed to ensuring the predictability and long-termity of the future contracts for the private sector, and this has also been made clear in the mission document. My impression is that regional health businesses are now doing well. All regions now announce acquisitions of new services in these days, in addition to what the existing agreements have opened up. This means that in the course of the year we will be better equipped to meet the need for treatment for those with drug problems, and that the waiting time then hopefully goes down. There is also reason to note that Health West – as the first region to make a normal acquisition in the area after the government change – is now out of competition reserved for the non-profit sector. This leads us to the second problem, the relationship with the non-profit sector. Many NPISHs have a high level of competence and can contribute to new and improved solutions. The Government wants to continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector on the provision of health and care services and believes that the agreement should be extended and strengthened. Several NPISHs face specific challenges related to high pension costs. The size has asked the government to assess the framework conditions for NPISHs providing healthcare under the agreement with regional health enterprises, including pension-related matters. Here I refer to the Prime Minister's letter to the Christian People's Party in March, where she confirms that the government is following this up. We will look at the scope of action we have to compensate for some of these costs under the Public Acquisitions and Public Aid Code. The government is working to clarify the scope of action in order to conclude long-term and ongoing contracts in the public procurement of health and care services. The space for action shall be used to the greatest extent possible to enable contracting authorities to avoid long-term or ongoing contracts, where appropriate, in order to ensure good and stable services. I would like to mention that the EU's proposals for revised directives on public procurement, which introduce new rules for the provision of health and care services, have been adopted by the Council. This means that we are unlikely to be able to continue the exemption to reserve competition for NPISHs for purchases of more than EUR 750000 from 2016. The Government expressed its concern at the Greek Presidency of the Council of the European Union prior to the decision, but in reality this government has not been able to affect the content of the Directive because the negotiations between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission were concluded before the summer of 2013. Nevertheless, the government will carry out an external legal assessment as to whether the exemption for the purchase of health and social services can be continued under the new Acquisitions Directive. It is not correct that the previous government has abolished tenders for purchases in the field of child protection. What one did was that a reserved bid for the non-profit sector – just as Health West now does, for example. for ideals within the ru area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e411	The Minister for Health, in a letter dated 7 February, briefed the Health and Welfare Committee on the EU proposal for a revised Directive for the provision of health and social services. I expect the Minister of Health to take advantage of the space available here to provide ideal actors with good framework conditions with long-term agreements instead of tenders, to which the directive is addressed. Based on today's proposal to prioritize ideals, I would like to point out that the Minister of Health himself for a while was present when NOVA presented Professor Charlene Harrington and her research results based on broad population surveys. The professor concluded that ideal actors prove to deliver far better quality in the long term to the health and care sector than commercial providers do. Does the Council of State not think that what this research shows us is a good enough reason alone to prioritise non-profit actors in front of commercial actors in welfare production?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e420	In my post, I argued very strongly to use the non-profit sector in the health and care sector, and I think there are good reasons for that. The main reason, in my opinion, is that the non-profit sector represents a diversity that neither the public sector nor the private sector can replace. In addition, our history shows that it is the non-profit sector that has often seen new needs and opportunities earlier than both public and private, and hence above. I am therefore concerned that we have a strong non-profit sector in this field, because I don't think evolution has stopped or reached its end point. I believe that the non-profit sector will continue to see both new challenges and new solutions that neither the public nor the private sector see. With regard to the proposal we are going to vote on today, I believe that it is more concerned with excluding the non-profit-making part of the private sector than taking care of the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e431	Our position in the context of the Acquisitions Directive in 2011 was that health and social services should primarily be exempted from the Directive – subsidiaryly that the threshold should be significantly raised and that an exemption for the purchase of services to individual users should be established. In addition, we believed that a provision should be included allowing contracts to be reserved for non-profit institutions serving households. All this work we actively work for. We now see a position on the part of the current government to redefine Brussels, i.e. a passive European policy. Firstly, there are opportunities in the Directive to find local adaptations. Secondly, even the Minister of Industry said in the response to the Light Hill that such a space of action exists. I would like to ask the Council of State Höie: if the external legal assessment, which is now under way, determines that such a space of action exists, can the Council of State guarantee that the system of prioritising non-profit drug institutions will continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e448	First of all, I think the history of this question is wrong. I think it is very strange that the previous government was not more clear to the Stortinget, for example. in relation to the processing of the Report. St. 29 for 2012–2013, that this was a challenge that one faced, but on the contrary, it seemed that this was under control. In the EU context, it is not least that one is active early in the political processes. All the parties at Stortinget have active cooperation with their sister parties in Europe. One has the opportunity to work much earlier in the political processes than the previous government did. It is precisely that we are actively working in the past, which is the change from the previous government to this government to pursue an active European policy. In addition, in this case, we have given a clear message to the Greek Presidency about what is Norway's position, but unfortunately, these decisions were actually taken before the government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e457	I heard that the minister said that the pension costs for the non-profit sector are high, and that fortunately, as we say in Rogaland, he is in dialogue with the non-profit sector in terms of the pension obligations and the backpack that the sector carries. I'm a little concerned about how that road goes on, because there are new health companies that are going to have bidding rounds soon – both Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord. How far has one come, and how can an insurance non-profit sector, that one will look at this so that one can enter these bidding rounds in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e464	This is a work that is constitutionally under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, and therefore it is also those who are working on it. What a person is working on is looking at our overall space of action in terms of both the historical pension costs, and how this relationship can be ensured in future agreements. This work is going well in the department, because we have to figure out what kind of space we have in this area. We can't do like the previous government, which just rejected the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e469	I had several rounds with the Council of State Horne in connection with the budgetary procedure and after Christmas, where she could not confirm that the new government would continue the cooperation agreement between the state and the non-profit sector. State Council Höie is the first to confirm that the government will do it, and it's a little funny that the councils speak with different tongues. State Council Höie said in the speech that he is now in dialogue on pension costs, but in the cooperation agreement there is a reason why there should be half-yearly meetings, where one can discuss, among other things. retirement and other things. My question is, what is the reason why a person is not just continuing the cooperation agreement? He's not something static. He needs to be further developed. Has it been a meeting, as it says in the cooperation agreement, that it should be? If it hasn't been a meeting - why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e478	I may think that the representative Toppe is aware that there are decision-making processes in governments, and when, today – and by letter to the committee – I can be so clear that the cooperation agreement is continuing, it is because decisions have now been made on it, but in December someone had not come as far in the decision-making process. It's not about talking to two tongues, it's about talking at different times. The representative Toppe should also be familiar with this. With regard to pension costs and the cooperation agreement, it is quite right that there is a point in the agreement that one should talk about it, but we think it is important not only to talk about it, but actually also to explore what opportunities there are to find solutions. That's what the government is now working on. I also think that the non-profit sector will have more interest in talking to a government that is actually now exploring what is the space of action in this area than just having a meeting to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e485	The last state council said in its article on Buffetat is wrong. I can only ask him to read the letter that went from the Children's, Equality and Inclusion Department to the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate last year, which told me to replace tenders with long-term contracts. It's another thing that this government is giving the opposite signal. I think it's a little peculiar with this and a lot of other debates that the bourgeois parties and government are now very busy blaming on the red-green government for not wanting to do things that this government won't do. It is time for the government instead to take responsibility and tell us what is going to happen. I have a simple question: When the Council of State pays tribute to Health West for implementing a separate bidding round for ideals, and we know that it will not be permitted in the future, why will he not recommend Health West to enter into ongoing agreements for the same institutions that are now to be involved in a separate tendering process?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e494	I'm very pleased with that line, because it gives me the opportunity to elaborate on my points. Firstly, in this context, the word «offer» has been deliberately used rhetorically by Audun Lysbakken. What is at stake is, in reality, the use of public procurement legislation. Of course, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality under the previous government did not go away from using the public procurement regulations. What it did was it reserved these purchases for the non-profit sector. That's exactly what's now happening in the Health West, and that's happened in the past in Health South-East. Secondly, the Lighthouse goes into what is called long-term agreements. But long-term agreements are not eternal agreements. This means that, at certain intervals, there must be new purchases — or tenders, as some call it — in those areas, both in the field of child protection and in the health and care sectors. The fact that the tenders can now be protected for the non-profit sector is quite fine, but the duration chosen by Health West is similar to what normally has to be called current contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e502	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e505	From the day one, the government has been aware that it will strengthen the supply of drug addicts, which is already reflected in the state budget of the year. The government's starting point will always be the best solution for the users. The aim is to facilitate the diversity of high-quality treatment provision within public, private and non-profit institutions. With good cooperation, we reach greater goals and a better offer to users. It was with great concern that we registered that several treatment offers were dropped in the years under red-green rule. Witnessing that the red-greens removed the instructions in the letters of assignment of health businesses and with it deliberately deprioritised the availability, treatment diversity and thus also the quality of drug treatment, was quite tough, all the time we knew that more people in need of help did not get the help they needed. Russoorgen is a public responsibility. At the same time, the non-profit and private sector has proved to be a very important contributor and currently represents 58 pst. of the total daily capacity for multidisciplinary specialised treatment. Today’s government wants to improve the interaction between public, private and non-profit – this is because we believe it will provide better solutions for users. First of all, private and ideals contribute to new ways of doing things. That's what boosts innovation. Secondly, they contribute to greater diversity, giving more freedom of choice and opportunities to more people. A diversity of users requires a diversity of services. Mangfold is to respect that people are different. Thirdly, Public Private Cooperation contributes to greater capacity. It gives shorter waiting times and less queues. Last but not least, particularly volunteers contribute to the link between people in ways other than those of the public. It strengthens the cohesion of our society. It is therefore important that procurement practices contribute to ensuring diversity, choice, quality, proximity to services and predictability of operators. It is possible that there is a broad consensus in this room about giving priority to drugs and mental health protection, but it is today's government that actually does something concrete about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e520	Ruspacers who are motivated and who need treatment are currently meeting too long waiting time. There is a need to step up efforts in the field of drugs and to ensure better transitions between different stages of treatment. We all agree on that. Nevertheless, there are differences of direction in drug policy. One of the areas where this is best seen is exactly what we are now discussing: attitudes to commercialising treatment provision. Because while the red-greens, i.e. us, wanted to use the action space of the law on public acquisitions to exempt from commercialisation, the Right-Fremskrit Party government is doing the opposite. The working party believes that the drug field is not suitable for market thinking. Because when is it profitable to treat, and when is it profitable to give up? Already today, addicts have to fight to get treatment for the third, fourth, perhaps the fifth time after failed attempts. Where does the Right Margin go between thinking profit and thinking human dignity within the drug field? The Workers' Party is deeply concerned about the views of the Right Party Government on the production of welfare services. The Government Platform rightly states that welfare services differ little from other services and that it is absolutely necessary for competition to become a horizontal element of public activity. Freedom of establishment, statutory rights and price financing shall ensure market development. Even today, the Right Party and the Advance Party will not take part in a proposal that gives ideal and non-commercial drug institutions a advantage. Today, government parties say directly that they support the fact that health companies should be able to determine this for themselves, i.e. no governance. It doesn't benefit in beautiful words and boasts from ideal providers if you don't do anything in practice. My claim is that if you want to build quality in the offers, it does not keep it with short contracts and that it wins with the lowest price possible. If we are to succeed in providing people with the need for long-term, multidisciplinary treatment an offer, we cannot make the price the most important thing, especially when you have the freedom to choose. Both the EU procurement directives and the Norwegian public procurement law provide for derogations from the general rule for the purchase of health and care services. So while we used our freedom of choice to enter into long-term contracts with ideals, the Right Party government – with the support of the Left – uses its freedom of choice to choose the commercial ones. I want the Christian People's Party to be happy to tame the marketer in the welfare field, and I am very pleased with the support of the Christian People's Party today. I worked with people who have drug problems when I worked in social services – later Nav. It's despairing to see how people crack time after time because they don't get good enough housing or a sensible activity. Often, the planning of measures is late. When I visited the Church's City Mission at Lillestrøm, someone said it was so nice. He was part of the work team and kept the streets of Lillestrøm clean. He said, «Before I was one, everyone was afraid and went about. Now the old ladies get away, you know, and slap me on my shoulder and say, "So good you are as clearing the streets!" I don't say any more. It's dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e542	It's a special story we hear today from the red-green parties. In fact, it seems quite strange to me that the majority of the government is asking health companies to give priority to non-profit providers when they buy private institutional premises, all the time we know that the biggest work related to this directive was done when the red-greens were put on guard. The representative, Kenseth, may have called it a settlement with his own policy. I thought I could use the health term and say that you have slept on guard. As the Minister of Health explained, all negotiations had been conducted – both with the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission – and yet our government has made a last request to try to understand this before the directive was adopted. The background is that we share our views on the important contribution of non-profit health care organisations. You're trying in the hall today to construct a big difference. It doesn't exist. If the representatives Lysbakken and Gustavsen had listened to the submissions earlier today, they would have heard that at least I explained a considerable increase in the 2014 budget for addicted patients in the non-profit sector, but also a strengthening to increase the number of treatment sites. That's what's safe and secure. Precautionary care is that there are actors in operation who can provide competent treatment when someone needs it. It may be that the red-green government tried to turn all the stones into meetings and negotiations with the EU, but they failed. But they didn't keep the Storting up to date on this. As the Minister of Health said, there was a golden opportunity to discuss this issue in the report. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s care. Of what I have read in the minutes, this is not mentioned in the debate at all here in the Stortinget. For me it becomes a game for the gallery when you now owe a new government when you didn't do what you were supposed to do when you were on guard. There is another concern that should also be mentioned, which is not linked to what we are really debating today. At the hearing, it appeared that greater skills and more professionalism were required in this field. This applies to the weakest and sickest patients in our society. We need a significant escalation of competence in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e553	The question has been asked here today: Is it difficult for ideals to compete with commercials? The answer is, of course, yes, despite the fact that the committee leader said something else earlier here. I have heard it myself from the actors, both when I was on the Family and Culture Committee and as a health politician. After all, it is a fact that commercial enterprises, especially the large health groups, which are taking over more and more of this market, have lower pay and pension conditions for employees, although there are exceptions, such as Sigma Nord, which is mentioned here, operating as an ideal actor. We see that when the large groups come in, the pressure on the employees gets up and the quality gets worse. It shows the research done in a lot of countries. Some have mentioned that institutions have been closed down. That's right. I think we should be so honest and say that it is not all institutions, nor all ideals, that satisfy the demand for quality and availability. This is the ideal sector itself very clearly. That is why, in our proposal, we have set quality as a very important requirement for prioritising the ideals. Not all Ruspacers can or should be treated in an institution or in an institution alone. Many ruspacers have multiple diagnoses – drug problems, mental problems and somatic plagues. It often requires greater cross-disciplinaryism and cross-border treatment — offers that may be more widely available in public health services. Ruspacers also need treatment and follow-up in their municipalities, depending on the interaction between specialised drug treatment and treatment provided in municipalities. This interaction is usually much better in public health. Then there's someone who said you're not busy with the therapists, but patients. I believe that this proposal addresses what patients need and need. I would remind the blue-blues that when they earmarked an increase in money for drug treatment, it was not earmarking money for patients, but for private treatment. I guess that would say most of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e564	Several have mentioned that this is a slightly designed debate. I want to go back to the left's starting point: it's the patient who's in the center, and it's capacity and diversity that's important to build. The representative Gustavsen was interested in elements of it. Capacity and diversity are very important. In addition, there is a political question. It's about what we're using public for. Today, it is a major challenge that we have too poor post-protection, and that the interaction between public actors, state and municipality, is not good enough. We spend too much money today on the day-to-day treatment for a year and too little on the after-care. It's also part of the important debate we're going to have. We were on a committee tour at Modum Bad, which is quite the most treating patients in mental health, and there they said they have a daily price of NOK 3 500. Privates have a daily price of SEK 7 000, and the public has a daily price of NOK 12 000. Then we have to discuss what is in the delivery that involves NOK 12 000. Therefore, we also need to discuss what the public should contribute and make demands when we order from ourselves. Of course, we have an additional responsibility to contribute to research and development, but today the purchasing law is so that the public is not available and there is little access to public tools. It's also part of what we need to develop. Therefore, innovation partnerships, constantly looking for new opportunities for public participation, creating and contributing to innovation, especially in this sector, are very important. That is why we also need to look at the interaction between specialist health services and the municipalities, which, after all, are an important part of this. Here we have a unique opportunity in Norway, with such a large non-profit sector, which is, after all, capable of contributing to this development. But the answer isn't necessarily what the minority is asking for today. I think we should look forward to this debate and not look so much at tendering practices and today's procurement legislation. Here we need to go a path with many actors in order to get a better offer, more capacity, more places for more and more people who need us to be there for them. We also have to spend more money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e573	This debate is characterised by something we've seen a lot in the last six months. It's that today's government parties are more concerned about talking about the previous government than talking about themselves. I understand that when you have so little action to come with – executive power was a word you used last year. Now it's no longer in use. I noticed that the Minister of Health among all the great words about how bad the previous government was had three measures to point out. One is that you want to buy more private places. I think the whole Storting thing is for that. There was an escalation during the previous government. Further escalation is necessary. It's not controversial. The second is that the Minister of Health wants competitions reserved for the non-profit sector. It happened under the previous government. The third is that he will continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector entered into by the previous government. It is difficult to see what action this government will take, which the previous government has not taken. Then it's a little special to come up with the big words about how hopeless the previous government was. I notice that you are more concerned about arguing why it is not possible to do anything about competition than to tell why you don't want to do anything about it. What has happened, both in Health South-East and in Bufetat, is that we have had a transition from fixed-term contracts to long-term contracts. Long-term agreements can be several things. There may be agreements with much longer time horizons, for example: ten years, or there may be contracts running until they are terminated by one of the parties. The government batches must respond to, for which they have not spent any time at all, is why they do not want to have as much as possible. What may prove impossible to implement are separate bidding rounds for ideals. This means that if the own bidding rounds fall away in those parts of the welfare state where they are used, the ideals will be made worse than before, unless the majority of the Grand Duchy is implementing new measures. I would like to hear the Right, the Advance Party and the Left explain why they will not introduce longer agreements for ideals, not why it is so difficult to do anything. Because that is what is at the heart: the ideals are asking for longer agreements – the Right, the Advance Party and the Left say no. You have spent very little time justifying it today. You've been more concerned about telling me what you think about the previous government. We know very well what the majority think about the previous government – it's not so interesting to hear more about it. It would have been very interesting to hear something more about what the majority has intended to use their power for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e582	After a long working life in Norwegian health care, we have learned that it is always important to evaluate to move forward, so seeing a little in the back window is sometimes a little good, but not too much. So sometimes it's also a little wise to take some self-criticism at what didn't work, and I want to say, I was one of them who said that it was put down ideal places under the previous government. There were no spaces that lacked competence; in fact, there were spaces that were so highly competent that it would only be those who had it. I can mention the Blue Cross Clinic, or the Base Center, in Sandnes, which had treatment facilities for intoxication and gambling – they drove very well and were laid down – or the Blue Cross Clinic in Hordaland, where Health West and the public took over the buildings and drove on. They had great competence. That's what the Christian People's Party is concerned about: it shouldn't be that they have to lay down, and that competent, good people with a lot of experience, and who have done a lot of research, have to find other jobs to do, and that the patients who have gone to them have to find other therapists. No one's earned, and at the very least, the patients. Then I agree that we must also look forward. That's why I think we all have a responsibility to make sure that we do what we've decided to do: to give the Ruspacers a good offer, a diverse offer. We have a responsibility to ensure that the public is able to do it, that the municipalities are able to do it, and most importantly that the ideal organisations we are now talking about are able to do the job they are competent to do. Clearly, we do not need incompetent personnel either in the public sector or in the non-profit sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e589	I think this is a bit of a special debate, where the Storting debates most of what is not at issue. The case concerns whether to instruct entrepreneurs to prioritise ideal rather than commercial, and whether to say that one should enter into long-term contracts instead of supply. Then there will be a fierce debate on an EU directive, so that the EU directive comes in a way as a legal argument. I want, as the representative of Audun Lightground does: What does the government party really want? What do they want, what do they mean, what do they want to fight for? It does not appear in this case - or it is conscious that it does not appear. It was said that the EU directive came as a surprise. So it came legally for those who do not vote for this proposal today. The leader of the Committee, Kari Kjenaas Kjos, said in his speech that the supply system is not the reason for the loss of institutions but the tight economy and transition to outpatient treatment. In the government platform, as mentioned here, the production of welfare services is seen as the production of all kinds of other goods and services. This is where the policy is today. What is said is that the government has done a lot — raise the budget, implement the golden rule. Once again, a focus is taken away from what the issue is about: is the supply system the reason why institutions are laid down? The centre party is quite certain that the bidding system is the reason why voluntary, non-profit organisations are being set up. In my hearing, Freedom was Norway, which I think must represent the volunteers in a good way. They say that when a buyer buys welfare services on short-term contracts through bidding, it favors the commercial players because of the choice of the business model, while the ideal ones are squandered. Voluntaryness Norway mapped out that there was a reduction in health and care provision, but they say that the main reason was that public services were purchased by commercial operators, who had lower prices than ideals, who have historically had high pension costs. I find it strange that neither the Minister of Health and Care nor the Right, the Left or the Progress Party is a member of Freedom Norway if they are so concerned that non-profit providers should not be put down – as we get criticism that happened in the previous period. Here the government party is very busy criticizing us for something that they don't want to sort out in themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e602	I explained in my speech what is government policy in this area, and our strong desire to provide good, predictable framework conditions for the non-profit sector, let the non-profit sector remain strong and have the opportunity to grow in Norway. The representative Lightbakken made a contribution to a policy that the government did not conduct, but towards a policy that he had wanted the government to lead, for it had matched his scare image of the government. But it is not based on the policy pursued. This government is now working hard to look at all the opportunities to provide the non-profit sector in several areas of good framework conditions, and better than it had in the past. That's what we do, and we follow that up. The term «offer» is deliberately used rhetorical in this debate to give the impression that some lots in this room are opposed to tenders. However, tenders are nothing but follow the public procurement code, and I have not registered any batches in this room as having been ordered to abolish the rules on public procurement. The question is then whether you should have your own purchases reserved for the non-profit sector. I think that's a good idea, so it's now implemented, among other things. in the Health West in the case of drug institutions, which we consider here in concrete terms. Unfortunately, the EU directive that has been much up in the debate is likely to prevent that possibility in the future, but the government is working to find out what opportunities we have to take care of the non-profit sector within that legislation. That is what this debate is really about. Creating the impression that some lots are in favour of tenders and other lots are in opposition to tenders is, in effect, a rhetorical exercise to try to overshadow what are the facts. So a term also uses the term "time-limited agreements". Yes, it is also a rhetorical act, for long-term contracts, which I have also entrusted to health care companies to have – long-term and predictable contracts – will in any case have to involve new purchases during a period that is probably around what Health West has put on, i.e. Six plus two years, that's eight years. Then it's more predictable for the ideal actors, I think, to know that it's six plus two years than to relate to the very diffuse term 'long-term agreements', which will really mean the exact same thing. And as Audun Lysbakken knows perfectly well: Time-independent agreements do not exist, one must make new purchases, unless one violates public procurement law, and I have not seen that any parties have been asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e611	The representative Ketil Kjeseth has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e615	The representative Kjersti Toppe is trying to say what this is all about. It's about patients. And then it's actually about we've had a government that's been trying to get to this for eight years, but not getting it done. It cannot take any responsibility for a new government or the Left as a tilting party in Stortinget. We are concerned about the future, and we want more capacity, we want more development, we want more actors, and we listen to voluntary Norway: we want to follow the agreement that the red-green government has entered into, we want to put more money in the pot, we want to relieve them of pension obligations, and we want better framework conditions. That's what volunteer Norway says. This is about 2016, which probably does not give us the opportunity to prioritize non-profit actors rather than other actors. Then the question is whether we're going to use that space until 2016, and spend a lot of energy on it -- or on a future that's there anyway, and we can start with that right now. Anyway, there's room for a lot of actors here, because who are the commercial actors that just show up? They don't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e624	The representative Audun Lighthouse has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e627	The Council of State is in a state of confusion about misinforming the Government about what is the Government Procurement Code. To terminate the use of fixed-term contracts – that is the language used in the letter of assignment of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion of the Ministry of Bufatat last year. In the answer I received from the Minister of Industry on 25 February, it says: ‘The government is also actively involved in clarifying the scope of action in order to conclude long-term and ongoing contracts in the public procurement of health and social services.’ And ‘running agreements’ – I think it’s very special if the Minister of Industry is actively working to clarify the room for action around something that the Minister of Health is standing here and saying is illegal. That can't be true. It is important that the government clarify what it perceives that the procurement law is in fact, because it is obvious that the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Health here say two very different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e642	The representative Tove Karoline Knutsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e645	I find it a little strange that this debate is going to be about the EU directive. It is an important debate to take – and it is the basis for what we are going to do in this field in the future – but this debate is really, profoundly, about something completely different. As someone has mentioned here, it's about whether the government stands by what they say in the government statement, namely that there's no difference between the services we're now discussing and the purchase of butter and shoes. I mean – and we mean – that it is. I am deeply concerned not about the EU directive, but about the strong willingness to commercialise, buy and sell, and to look at patients and vulnerable people as customers. What this really is all about, is whether we're going to raise the ideals, which haven't profited as their goal, into an interaction with the public, or whether we're going to have a full store. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e668	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e684	In a famous Norwegian song, Jan Eggum asks: ‘Do all heroes go?’ I found them. The heroes I've found are not anyone. They're among society's toughest. They're standing around 24 hours a day for their closest friends. One of these heroes was the triggering reason why I promoted this interpellation. Her name is Siw Brider. Thank you, Siw, for standing up in the evening post and telling me about your fight, a fight for a worthy offer to your two children, who have autism, a daily fight that should be completely unnecessary, but as you and many others experience. This is a bad scratch in our welfare community and cannot be tolerated. For us in the Workers' Party, nothing is more important than giving equal opportunities and having a society that takes good care of everyone. When we look at how the offer to people in need of resource-intensive services and how their relatives and families are cared for in our society, for example. in the municipalities, by Nav and by other relevant bodies, we see that there are too many who are not being properly cared for. We just haven't been able to find good enough solutions. I therefore hope that across the party boundaries, we can manage to provide security for people who need help and their families in everyday life. Some people probably think that we in the Workers' Party should have solved this when we sat down with government power. I understand that criticism. We couldn't crack that code well enough, but that doesn't mean we're not going to get involved. In order for us to reach the value of ‘all to join’ in a society based on equivalency, it is absolutely necessary that we go thoroughly through today’s system, find weaknesses and correct them. It is doubtful that one should live as a nomad in his own country, in the pursuit of a municipality that provides a satisfactory offer to one's closest. It makes no sense that you have to spend time and effort fighting against the municipality and other public agencies. It is reprehensible that someone who, for example, is being threatened with sanctions, the protection of children, etc. if a fighter wants his/her closest to get a good offer. This is a leadership responsibility and must not happen. We expect people's manners, warmth and well-being from employees who meet dedicated relatives. I have in time before this interpellation received many enquiries from people who have an important story to tell, and I want to thank each and every one of them in particular. It is useful and absolutely necessary for us politicians to meet reality without filters. I have also asked you questions. FFO and Norwegian Patient Association on how today’s arrangements are — how they work, not least from municipality to municipality and between e.g. specialist health services and municipalities – and, not least, what it should be like and on proposals for improvements. I have also asked the Swedish Research Department whether there is any connection between the size of the municipality and the offer to users with extensive help needs. The responses from organisations are thorough and point to the fact that today’s situation is varied and sometimes unwieldy. The individual himself must to a great extent find out in the Paragraph Jungle. Although a person appears to have many rights on paper, they are not always met in practice. One of the main challenges is that the provision of services in municipalities is solved very differently, depending on the economy, competence and priorities locally. Even between the metropolitan areas of Oslo, great differences have been demonstrated. Too often, the advice and recommendations of the specialist healthcare service are ignored in relation to the needs of the individual user. The possibilities for municipalities to review professional advice from specialist health services are relatively high. The County Board of Appeal in order to review any decisions taken by the municipality is limited, as such cases require a high level of emphasis on local self-government. Not enough with that, even if you were to receive assistance from the County Council, there are municipalities that train and do not follow orders. There is every reason to ask whether this does not significantly impair the service offered to people with a high need for assistance in many municipalities. There is also reason to wonder what competences some municipalities have that are not specialised in the provision of good services to those people when reviewing the advice and recommendations of specialist health services. Not least, a question must be asked whether professional judgements from municipalities need to be quality assurance, testing and follow-up in a completely different way from today. Some claim that the provision of services to people with extensive assistance needs is consistently better in large municipalities than in smaller ones. The survey section has looked at this and concludes that the municipality size cannot explain different levels and different quality of service. It may appear that someone who is a user of, and a relative of, the public auxiliaries is at risk of accidental accidents. Which municipality you live in can be crucial. Whoever receives a case manager when an applicant for a service can be decisive. How the coordinator works can be crucial. The follow-up of the individual plan is important. The functioning of hospital services can be important, etc. In addition, it is likely that many people find it difficult to complain about the auxiliaries themselves, and the nearest one is totally dependent on them. When you become a witness to, for example, citizens who complain are exposed to serious threats, such as child protection, which of course help to reduce the number of people who dare to say so. I am also afraid that many employees will not dare to report critical matters either. Of course, it's not like everything's miserable, but a deep dive in this tells us that there's a lot to grab. This is a demanding matter, but it is important to find solutions that can help the individual and their relatives and that can be a welfare society worthy. I think, among other things: that these four points may be a starting point: The advice and recommendations of specialist health services must be much more binding on municipalities than they are at present. There must be greater clarity in what is defined as a sound and good offer. You have to simplify and red tape your everyday life to the users and their closest ones. It is necessary to look at how the funding of services works and to make suggestions for improvements. I am pleased with this debate and I am also now notifying that I will consider following up on this with my own proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e734	The story behind this interpellation has affected us all, the story of Siw Brauter and her two sons. It's bad to read about individuals who have great challenges in getting their daily lives around while they feel they have to fight the system that we have set up to really help them. Relatives who take care of their loved ones make a decisive effort and deserve to be met with a public utility that works with them and relieves them. The goal of this government is to create the patient's healthcare, a better and safer healthcare service where the patient is at the centre. This means that patients, users and relatives should be actively involved in improving services and that the quality of services should be assessed from their perspective. I believe that patients, users and relatives are the most important change agents we have in improving health and care services. Some of the things that have made the strongest impression on me as a politician have been meeting patients, users and relatives who have shared their frustrations. Of course, many people are happy – we know that, and we're going to enjoy it and take it with us – but I've also met a lot of people who tell us about what's not working, and we're also going to learn from the bad experiences. Social security has several social security schemes to ensure financial security and competence for specific expenditure under sickness. Auxiliary benefits are provided to persons with long-term disabilities who have a particular need for supervision and care and where there is a private care relationship. Increased assistance can also be provided to children and young people under 18 years of age if they have care needs significantly greater than those covered by the ordinary auxiliary assistance. The assumption is that the benefit increases the child’s ability to stay at home. The increased aid is provided at three rates depending on the level of care needed in relation to the needs of healthy children. How much more is needed could change over time. It is therefore important that the cases are also regularly assessed. Municipalities are responsible for addressing the need for assistance. Where there are long-term needs, public health shall provide tools to improve the functioning of daily life. A car benefit may be granted if there is a permanent disability that prevents the use of public transport or if the use of public transport leads to unreasonable burdens. The government has now announced a full review of the work and welfare systems. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has informed me that he will work for Nav to provide good user experiences, get more people to work and give a good offer to those who cannot be at work. The government will also review the care allowance scheme, which is a benefit for parents with children with transient and partly very serious diseases. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and my department shall cooperate in this respect so that the municipal services can be seen in the context of benefits such as care, social assistance and municipal care. This is important, especially for users with complex needs and not least for parents of children with severe diseases or disabilities. In the treatment of Report. St. 45 for 2012–2013, Freedom and Equivalence — On people with developmental disabilities, the Stortinget adopted in February this year a unanimous decision to ask the government to set up a wide-ranging selection to propose appropriate and concrete measures to strengthen the fundamental rights of people with developmental disabilities. This government will follow up on this and reduce such a sample. In order to succeed in providing necessary and sound assistance, it is essential that those responsible for providing the services cooperate closely with users to receive the service and their relatives. The law gives patients, users and relatives a clear right to participation. User involvement is also essential for professionally good services. If we learn to listen better to patients and relatives' experiences and use them in the improvement work, the services will also improve. This is also one of the reasons why I will shortly make a proposal to Stortinget about a rights attachment to user-controlled personal assistance. Unlike the previous government, I find it natural and important that support contact and relief for children living at home are included in this right. In this way, this right will actually mean a difference between relatives of children who need resource-intensive services. The law and regulation imposes an obligation on businesses – i.e. municipalities and health businesses – to carry out internal checks on compliance with statutory obligations and that the services provided at all times are sound. If failures or weaknesses are detected, they are required to be rectified immediately. In addition, the counties and the Health Inspectorate shall supervise the proper functioning of the services. My task as Minister of Health and Care is primarily to help enable municipalities to provide good services. At that time, it was not right to do what the previous government proposed, namely to reduce the compensation share to the top funding scheme for resource-intensive services. Furthermore, there is a need to strengthen and modernise the health and care services in municipalities and to ensure better coordination of the overall health supply. It is absolutely central that municipalities have skilled professionals with good competence to provide quality care services to people with the need for resource-intensive services. Then we have to facilitate further education and training, and we have to ensure that new generations of nurses, physiotherapists, protectors, sociologists and ergot therapists want to work in the municipalities. It is about turning municipal health and care services into an attractive job with opportunities for professional development and careers. This is why the government wants to implement a municipal reform that creates more competent and robust municipalities. We need to ensure that the municipalities have a size and robustness to handle the tasks they are assigned to them. It will also contribute to greater equivalence in the provision of services. We want to implement a level of competence to enhance the quality of municipal health and care services, and we are already doing that. In the supplementary budget, we added 50 million. additional to more competent care services measures. The funds facilitate more adult education and decentralised higher education. In the future, we will also strengthen the quality of services by developing quality indicators for the care sector. Good and professionally anchored indicators shall support local learning and competence and provide valuable information to the public and management. I want to focus on assessing how user and related experience can be included in this work in an equivalent way. Under the previous government, a law on health and care services was introduced, which is neutral without specific competence requirements. I believe that there is a clear lack of the law – I meant that in 2011, and I still believe that. I would therefore like to address the question of the use of standards or guidance for manning and quality in the care sector, and I would like to look at how we can also legislate on the requirements of competence in the municipal health and care services law. I am concerned that all users should be confident that they will receive services from qualified personnel when they need it. It could also help to reduce the difference in the provision of care. It is the meeting between people that is the most important for users when assessing the quality of services. Often, there is only one chance that this meeting will be positive. It's the same in the services that we're responsible for. Meetings between people are the most important common experience of quality. That's the meeting I like to call the moment of truth. We need to become much more aware of the moment of truth and the importance of this meeting between healthcare and those who are users. The interpellant took up four areas, which I also think are important. This is about better cooperation with the specialist health service. It's about defining better requirements we want for services. I also talked a lot about that in my article. It is about financing the services, and not least maintaining a good funding of the resource-intensive services. I want to add a fifth point, competence. I believe it is absolutely essential that we work much more effectively to ensure that we have a good enough competence in the municipal care services. In the same way as the competence of teachers is crucial for children’s learning at school, the most crucial for the quality of services is the competence of care professionals. It requires a stronger effort to increase competence, and it requires a clearer law in terms of competence, but I also believe that it requires that we have larger and more robust municipalities that offer better and more robust environments of competence for those who are going to work in the service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e762	Thank you for a thorough answer. I think we can quickly agree on most of this, and that is what is my motivation and that of the Workers' Party to address this question. We see how far we can go together to give people with this kind of need a better everyday life – and not least the relatives, so that they don't wear themselves out altogether. Then you might say that we have probably failed in the past. We should have been even more competent, but now we're going to try to get involved in pushing and working with the new government, and get to make the best possible offer to this user group and their relatives. I think a little about short-term measures. I think it is important that relatively short-term measures are also taken, so this does not take too long. This applies in particular to professional activities outside the municipalities and, in particular, to the supervisory tasks of the county councillors. We feel that there are very different practices from county to county in terms of what one considers professionally sound and professionally good in the various counties. There is too much variation in outpatient services in municipalities, so something should be done relatively quickly. I'd like to mention a completely fresh case from the Evening Post today. There are not only big differences between municipalities, but actually between the urban areas here in Oslo. It just shows and illustrates the challenges. There's a 12-year-old boy with cerebral paresis. When the family lived at Grorud, the family got 70 hours with a user-controlled personal assistant. When they moved to Søndre Nordstrand, the number of hours was reduced to 40. They were paid care in Grorud in 60 hours, but when they moved to Søndre Nordstrand, it was set down to 20 hours. The coordinator that the family had on Grorud helped a lot and was independent, while they got a new coordinator on Søndre Nordstrand who happened to be the same person who treated the case. The case handler and coordinator were one and the same person. Then, of course, there is a heart attack from the family, asking if it is not intended that the coordinator should help with case handlers and be independent. This shows that the differences between urban areas in this city are also large, and that there is no consistent practice. So the question is what can a person do in the short term to get a more consistent practice, so that people do not become welfare refugees in their own country and so that not municipalities that build up good offers need to be afraid that they get a lot of welfare refugees. How can we balance this out so that we get a reasonably good and equal offer in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e775	I'm very pleased with what the interpellant says about this being an area that requires joint effort, that we should work together, and that we look forward instead of being concerned about what has happened before. I fully agree with that. It is a major challenge that, as long as this is a municipal responsibility – and I see that there is a broad consensus that care services should be – there could be variations. I believe that the tools we have today to make it as similar as possible, of course, are the supervisory bodies we have to assess this. There are challenges. These include: one of the reasons why I have extended the term of office of the so-called Syse Committee to, inter alia: to see if we are going to have equivalent reporting arrangements in the municipal health and care service that we have in the specialist health service, precisely so that employees can also be more easily informed if they experience that there are challenges to the service that should be addressed. We have also asked the Syse Committee to investigate the establishment of its own investigation unit, which could move into the very serious cases. Then I believe very strongly in both quality measurements, standards and indicators as an instrument to strive for more equality between services, where responsibility is shared. That's what we're working on. Further work is being done on the development of indicators in the care sector, among others. in the case of nutrition, medicinal products, personnel, competences, dementia, rehabilitation, habilitation, falls, pressure wounds, mental health and health promotion. The aim is to have a comprehensive set of indicators that are organised so that they can be used together with other governance information. This will be very relevant for both users and patients, but also for service providers, policy makers and the population. I believe that if you get more knowledge of the quality of services, the quality of services will also increase – simply because those responsible, the local political authorities and local leaders, will have a much greater opportunity to compare with others and strive to improve in the areas in which you face challenges. I think that's a very correct way of dealing with quality. We have also seen this from the patient safety campaign, which has now become a patient safety programme, that it has had a good effect, especially in the specialist healthcare service, but now we also see that this is changing to the municipal care service. So, together with a significant commitment to competence and simplification of part of the legislation, it will be, in my opinion, important instruments to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e786	Freddy de Ruiter used the term ‘plays of chance’ to describe the services of users and their relatives from the public utility. The interpellant showed that it is crucial which municipality you live in, which case handler you get and how the coordination works, and whether the individual plan is followed up as important factors. This makes it visible as far as I think the big dilemma in health and social services is concerned. Despite strengthened rights, despite a strengthened local economy and despite a vigorous job in the last few years of service quality, many in Norway still do not receive the offer they should have. We hear and read stories about many parents and close relatives who are struggling. Maybe it makes the paradox I was in. We should invest even more in training and awareness-raising, and that best practice is actually what is used in services. I think it is very important to realize that a service offer can never be quite like the municipalities between them. Here I fully agree with the Minister of Health. I don't think anyone wants it either. But – and it’s a big but – people should have the help they need, when they need it, and in the way that suits the user of the offer. A few years ago, I believe the FFO had a campaign called ‘No Obstacle’. The need for coordinated services was made effectively visible in practice. Because they're absolutely right. If we are to succeed, the assistance to people and the family must come in the right way at the right time when you need it. The concept of welfare fluctuations is a relatively new concept, and in this context it has a very negative sound. But in a way, we have always had ‘welfare flights’, and really, that is the life force we see. It is the desire to create a life that is as good as possible for itself and his family. Today is the opportunity to move big. That's good. But what's not good is that the reason users move around is that the offer they get where they live may not be good enough, what they claim or deserve. I think it's an important input to say something about numbers, because I've tried to see if we have numbers for how many of these are talking about. I wish – when we discuss these kinds of questions – that we got numbers on the table to know how big the problem is. At the same time, we don't have to know everything to do anything. I see that there are some people who think that if the state had managed a little more, they would have fewer so-called welfare refugees. I'm not so sure. I'm also very sceptical about making this a debate about the municipality versus state. I think it is a debate about people, about values, about attitudes and about people's rights in practice. I think the answers to this can be found in several measures, such as the interpellant Freddy de Ruiter. But I also believe that the answers can be found in a combination of strong rights, management, organisation, competence, financial resources and supervision of municipalities. Because Freddy de Ruiter is right. There are a lot of people who find it difficult to complain about the auxiliaries when they depend on the same auxiliaries themselves. Then I would like to comment a little bit around the Council of State Höie's posts related to the BPA scheme and the law of the right BPA. I can encourage Bent Höie to present that matter to the Council of State tomorrow, so that you could manage it in the Storting before the summer. The previous government sent a proposal to consult. For the Workers' Party, we are ready to deal with the rights issue when the government submits a bill to the Stortinget. There are 100,000 people currently providing family care. The community is totally dependent on them to be able to offer a good life to people who need coordinated help. One person who moves around Norway because you do not get the help in terms of the rights you are entitled to have is one person too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e812	The interpellant addresses a well-known and very important issue that has proved to be difficult and challenging for many users of our welfare services over too long. It's about people who depend on public help to live a free and maritime life despite their disability. And it's about families who need foster care for their seriously ill children. The government’s clear objective is to create the patient’s healthcare, where the patient and the quality of the service are to be at the centre: improve and safer healthcare where patients, together with relatives, can actively contribute to improving the services and where quality of service is to be assessed from the perspective of the user and the family. A relative of a user writes it this way to me: «We have tried to work so that our municipality can understand what we mean by being in place, but we feel that the municipality only relates to what they define as a legally required task. If there is nothing in the law, neither is it offered." Governments informed in detail in their response on social security schemes in order to ensure financial security and competence for specific expenditure under disease. He also thoroughly informed about the aid available to persons with long-term suffering and the specific need for supervision and care. We know that some of these arrangements have worked poorly for some users, and that the law is often interpreted and practiced differently from the individual municipalities and Nav districts. Unfortunately, when the law says too little, the municipality or Nav often gives nothing. I am therefore pleased that today's government has announced a full review of the management of labour and welfare, and that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has been so clear that he will work for Nav to provide good user experiences. In 2002, the Stortinget Bondevik II government asked BPA to promote a bill on the right to a user-controlled personal assistant. The Bondevik II Government followed up the proposal in the 2006 budget. Over eight years, the red-green government has tried to train the BPA rating. After a great deal of pressure from Stortinget and the user organisations finally sent the red-green ones, in March 2013, a proposal for a rights fixation to be heard. It turned out quickly that the consultation draft from the red-green government went too far in restricting access to user-driven personal assistant. The proposal was simply not good enough. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has now announced that the Stortinget will be dealing with a bill on the retention of the rights of BPA, and that the bill that comes will correct important weaknesses in the red-green proposals. This means that relief and contact with support will now be part of the new legislative proposal. I am also pleased that the government will take care of the care allowance scheme, which has been neglected and demanded for too many years – also the one thing that has been heavily trained by the red-greens. I hope that the result of the government's important work in these matters will now help both the municipality and Nav to ensure that it will not be necessary for disabled persons to leave their homes and their neighbors to receive the services that the municipalities and Nav are required to provide them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e836	I see that today's interpellant has been sent to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs by the interpellant himself, and that it has then been sent to the Minister of Health and Health who is directing the person. Strictly speaking, perhaps both of these state councils today, too many of the services requested by some, should be distributed under each of their responsibilities. Nevertheless, I understand that the interpellant sent this to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It is, after all, an easier way to go if you need help and treatment in the field of disease, rather than getting help and help to live as much as possible self-held and as normal as possible. I would assume that the interpellation has been sent to the Minister of Health because, for some reason, BPA is under his responsibility. It must also be allowed to comment on the interpellant that, through my four years in the Labour and Social Committee and my four years in the Health and Welfare Committee, I have debated this many, many times, without any new policies and practices coming out of it. It is therefore nice that the Workers' Party has now been involved in cross-party cooperation and is therefore seeking support from the new government in order to achieve all the necessary improvements and changes. Throughout all these years this has been debated, there has been no lack of agreement that we should have rights and good welfare arrangements. There has been broad support for the importance of care, care pay, support contacts, relief, BPA and facilities. There has also been a broad consensus in this room that too many people have to work hard to get these measures granted. Nevertheless, it has not been possible to achieve improvements. Over eight red-green years, we were told that they would have an overall review of all the arrangements and come back to the Stortinget with proposals for improvements. These didn't come. In addition, there has been a problem that a majority of this room has been opposed to national guidelines, state funding and earmarked funds. Arguments have been local self-government and closeness to the user. So a majority in this room wanted to maintain a system that we're not really satisfied with. We get too many differences between municipalities. In the meantime, we are constantly reminded of a system that braves families for strength and creates discouragement and solitude. Sometimes I'm left with a feeling that we like to boast of all the well-being we can offer, but we'd rather not give them. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Robert Eriksson recently invited 80 experienced Nav users who had the opportunity to point out their personal experience of having to deal with a Nav office. The Grand Summit concluded that the Council of State set up a sample to propose improvements to the issues raised by these 80s. I am very pleased that the government takes such a serious grip around this, precisely because too many individuals have had to expand their lives in public space to be seen and heard. And we're not going to have it that way. Siw Brauter, who I have met before, is one of those who have gone the heavy road to the media to make visible how demanding it is to get support and help for their children. She is one of those people who have moved to another municipality to get help for their children. And, unfortunately, she's not alone. I have heard it several times, and have also experienced parents who have contacted me and asked if I know about a municipality that is good at providing different services and follow-up. After looking up Siw Brauter, I received several enquiries from people who knew each other very well in her description. One could tell that she had used three years from she applied for relief, until she got it granted. Then the matter had been within all possible instances and appeals. At the same time, this can give some municipalities specific challenges. In my own municipality, I have experienced that the councillor has warned local politicians not to be too good at offering and following up, precisely because it attracts families looking for the good municipalities. That's how I think we all agree that we shouldn't have it. In any case, the government is doing a good job cleaning up. One of the major and important steps taken is the right-holding of BPA. This one has been waiting for years, and it is perhaps one of the most important steps we can take to give people ownership of their own or their child's life. I am also very relieved, happy and proud that the rights fixation is done without the red-green government's demand that a right fixation should take place within the current framework. That means that the scheme can be extended, and there will be a scheme as it was supposed to be. It's going to be very exciting to follow this when the system is being rolled out into the quite country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e870	I want to thank the interpellant for an incredibly important debate. It's okay that there have been debates before, but they show that we're not in the goal, and then we have to keep this warm until we can get to the goal. Me and the Christian People's Party think that getting a family member who has such a big and resource-intensive need is in itself a challenge for the family. In addition, they have to fight the system to first figure out what they're entitled to, and then fight to get it. Once faced with a family challenge, it is a challenge in itself to feel that you have a wall ahead of you with challenges, criteria, offices and forms – a challenge that should be completely unnecessary. What should at least be unnecessary, I think, is to have to go to the media before any of us listen to them. It's a way to deliver yourself that I hope everyone gets out. Having resource-intensive services in a municipality costs a lot of money. Often, money can be set up against people who have an incredible challenge initially. I am pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party ensured that 214 million. kr came into the budget which was, which very many would cut down on. For it costs money for municipalities to facilitate a professional, qualitatively good offer. Having been rapporteur for many years in a municipality with one of the youngest people in the country, I know what tax revenue is, I know what priorities are, and I know what it costs to get kids, especially, but also young people and adults, with very challenging resource-intensive services. I also know that municipal politicians sincerely want to provide good services, we also have to say that, but money-bags are not enough. The interpellant made four points that I thought were good. One was about specialist health care and meeting their demands. There I challenge the minister a little bit, because it is that the specialist health service and the municipalities have to be equivalent in terms of being able to discuss and facilitate a good offer, so that it is not the specialist health service or the specialists out there who make a claim, and then it is for the municipalities to pay without being able to say anything about what they have opportunities for. Then I want to challenge the specialist health service to help with the skills we've talked about. They can make teams, as we know, that child protection has also done, that can help municipalities get the skills they actually need, and that they're in exactly what they're good at. There I think we have a lot to learn, a lot of knowledge to pick up, and a lot of opportunities to make a better offer. Then one has to discuss what professionally good enough offers are, because we say that we want equal offers, but people are different. No matter how much we want to get, people are different, and precisely because people and users are different, we can never make exactly the same offers. So I think we're going to dry off doing a simplification and give these municipalities that have a challenge, the money to have a coordinator, so that parents or guardians of resource-intensive users don't run from office to office, but have one to deal with that can help them figure out everything that's ahead of them. Then I think we can relieve relatives in a completely different way than what we do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e887	Everyone first thanks to the interpellant for an important interpellant, and for raising an important debate. As elected by the people, these are of the occasions I feel at the very least and a little powerless and helpless. I've been elected to a municipality for many years, and this has always been something we've seen, and something we've wanted to do with, but where we see that the inherent inertia of the system is difficult to turn on. There are many policy measures to improve the situation for those in need and for those in need. For the left, we would like to point to care pay, and that there must be increased access to it and more flexible arrangements. In many cases it is the best solution for the family to have a care pay scheme. Civilian or user-controlled personal assistant has been mentioned here earlier. It is also an action we want. Lawmaking it is important in itself. At the same time, it is also important to make the scheme even more accessible and to strengthen training for both employers and employees. Individual levels have also been mentioned, and that is important. Another tool is the money we're discussing. We might think there's enough money in the system. The challenge is that these resources do not find each other, which we all too often discuss, and that the money must therefore be more closely followed by the user – especially in these cases. Then we would avoid such cases as the Ruiter points out, in today's Evening Post, that when you move between two parts of Oslo, there are inequalities between the districts. I think maybe one of the biggest challenges both for those who have the need, and for those who are related, is that they have to run after arrangements. We need to do something about that swinging door and make sure that we are in the public sector that will coordinate the resources and run after the users and the relatives to help sew the services around the individual. There we have a considerable job to do. Several have been faced with the interaction challenge we are facing. The representative of Bollestad addressed this in his statement: simplification will be necessary, both legislative simplification and coordination. In red tape too, we believe that there is a need for simplification. Then I also think I heard from the representative of Bollestad that we need to have greater confidence in the needs and wishes of the relatives and users, and that we, as politicians, may also need to have greater confidence in the opportunities of the professionals to make good decisions locally. Then we should not be evading that this is also about priorities locally, in local policy. There are different priorities there, not just between small and large municipalities, on which the Ruiters were involved, but actually there are differences within parties that govern neighbouring municipalities, and it's also a little hard to understand why we operate with such different priorities parties among themselves. There is a debate we need to engage in the parties, also in order to contribute to the development of the policy. The last thing I want to say is that predictability is one of the things we have to provide more for, and that we think – most importantly – the good life, but also a safe and long life. There must then be predictability available here. I also believe that if we connect it with trust, it is possible to use resources so that both users and relatives get a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e908	First, thank the representative, Freddy de Ruiter, for taking up an important debate. How we take care of people who need resource-requiring services, tell a lot about society and the welfare state. Interpellant writes that many relatives experience having to fight against bureaucracy to secure their closest to a good and worthy offer. The Hagen selection launched the idea of the ‘second interaction reform’ – between the public and the people. I guess that's what's a little bit of a nucleus of this thing. The goal must be the most possible equivalent offer – if not the exact same – no matter where you live. The question of whether it should be corrected is a larger debate. I'm not always in agreement with that. Local government has moved in, but it is also pointed out that there are large variations within a municipality, as well as between urban areas in the larger cities, so this is not quite easy. Part of the reason we're experiencing this, I'd like to point out, is what we all have a responsibility for, that we're good at prioritizing the specialist services, while the community health service has often lost the fight for both money and competence. We've been good at prioritizing and focusing on the acute diseases, while those who are struggling with chronic diseases have not received the same attention. In Report. St. 29 for 2012–2013, Tomorrow’s care, a programme for an active and forward-looking policy was presented. I thought maybe the Health Minister had pointed this out in his post, because it was agreed and got the connection of the Stortinget. New renegade policy, which was a follow-up to the Kaasa selection and the Hagen selection, should be visible, recognized and supported by relatives who are in demanding care tasks. One should ensure better interaction between public and informal care and enhance the quality of the overall service provision. One should also make it easier to combine professional activity with care for children and young people, adults and the elderly with serious illness, disability or mental and social problems. The first phase of this intimidation programme should focus on measures that support relatives and strengthen the interaction between health and care services and relatives. Flexible download arrangements, related support, information, training and guidance, interaction and cooperation, improvement of care and research and development were mentioned. In the next phase, the economic arrangements were to be looked at and evaluated. In the case of children, there is often a lack of interaction between the school, the municipal health and care services and the specialist services that work most on families with children and young people with extensive disabilities, and that relatives experience that they themselves have to coordinate their daily lives for their children. This is also provided in a report from the Health Directorate. The tool – which is also pointed out in the big message of tomorrow’s concern – is that one must structure and systematize the cooperation between the public and the user and their relatives, including those related to them. coordinator and individual plan. I look forward to the new government following up this programme for a new policy of relatives. I think that can also be good for families who have children who are resource-requiring and need support. Finally, some words about the care scheme, which is also presented. It's a very important system for families with disabled children, and it needs to be strengthened and developed. We were criticized for having trained. I think it's a strong word. In the big message of tomorrow's care, it was decided that one should start this work. At the same time, last year, both the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left voted for a proposal from the Advance Party that the government should put forward a proposal to extend the care allowance scheme. The party believed that this could be done within four months – one year ago. Now I notice that this is going to take a little longer, and I actually understand that. I'm looking forward to that, and that one follows up the touching program that I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e937	I just have a few short comments. First of all, thank you to the interpellant for a very important debate, and thank you for an interesting debate, mainly low-key and conversational, on very complex issues. I want to record the thread where Kjersti Top finished. I hear the chairman of the committee says that the government is doing well to clean up, and then shows us back to our reign. Right Røbekk Nørve says that the previous government ‘trenched’ the work on these questions. I have no need to comment on it, except to say that I believe that the new government and the new government's parliamentary basis will soon discover when working on these issues also from responsible positions, that this is not easy. These aren't very simple questions, because it's about people who are very different, it's about people who need different things, it's different municipalities, and there's a lot of arrangements. I know that it makes a great impression on people like me, who have worked on other political issues before, to get into this field and discover that even though we have built perhaps the world's most noisy, decent welfare state, which is one of the most sophisticated world's views, nevertheless, many people feel that they are not being seen the way they deserve, are not being taken seriously and are not getting the help they need, in the country that historically has actually been able to build up a violent device. Maybe it's been too complicated – what do I know? I believe that any proposals for improvements, simplifications and renewal that the new government can come with and propose to the Stortinget, I shall almost say on the autopilot that we will support. But I think the dog is buried several times. The Minister of Health is talking about the patient's health care system. Let's transfer it to people who need the community's help. I believe that some of the solution lies in meeting between the person who works to meet people's needs, and the person who needs – I am absolutely convinced – that it is about what kind of attitudes he has, what kind of culture is established in the helper or municipality, what kind of management we have, and what the entrance to the meetings that others have described here is. I think it has to be that leaders have a special responsibility to facilitate a culture to meet people. We're actually elected to care for it -- that's what our job is. I have the impression that sometimes there are a few other elements that also come into these meetings – it can be economic, there may be things at work, there may be other things – that make these meetings very good. But then I also believe that it should not be that you should lie down flat, and I do not know that is happening today. Some have unrealistic expectations of what you can expect from people to help you. So it's important to communicate in a trusting way -- what can we get together to do here, what can I contribute to, what is that society that can actually contribute to? You have to establish a trust relationship that works differently than that – unfortunately, I would say – does in many contexts today. But again: I think, if I were from the Advancement Party or the Right, would be careful to be very bombastic about these questions about what is the final solution to a very complicated and complex topic. But again: Make suggestions – they will get warm support from us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e954	Thank you so much for a good debate and a lot of good input. It's kind of different angles of incidence, but I think we agree on the goal. So we have to try to do this somehow. I'll take some criticism. I think every government has made a mistake, and I think this is one of the areas where the previous government could have done more. We did something, but we could certainly have done more. Thank you very much to those who are sitting in the gallery. I cheated a little today. I had a meeting with the FFO, the Norwegian Patient Association, the Autism Association and some relatives. It's very useful. I got a lot of good insights that I've been going to take with me further in this case, which is complicated, which is difficult. I think this is about early action. I think this is about creating a package for each one. I don't think one should offer the same offers – because these are different people, and their relatives, for whom one has to design slightly different solutions – but one has to get into such processes and make good deals. Today, the words are used professionally. I think it's a trap – I really think it's a trap. I think it must be professionally good. And what's professional good? I think we need to have some better answers to that than what we have today. It is an equivalent, professionally good offer, which provides a good package solution for the individual user and the family. Then I want to challenge the minister. I thought it was very nice that he talked to the Minister of Labour. I think he might also want to have a little chat with the Minister of State and the Minister of Knowledge, because what's going on in the municipalities, and for example. How schools and kindergartens are designed to accommodate just these children is very important — and not least with early efforts. Finally, a little bit about BPA: we're coming along, and we're going to be contributors to creating a BPA scheme that's going to be the best possible. I'm not completely familiar with history, but at least we're going to contribute in that way. I hope that this debate is the beginning of something bigger and better for each user, and that we create systems that make it easy to design good solutions for each user, so that there is no basis for an overly large community. I think it is important that the municipalities are allowed to have a certain right of self-determination, but it must be brought in in a completely different way from today. In fact, today, in my opinion, the municipality's right of self-determination in this area is too large, too much discretion, too little impacted and too little concrete.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e976	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic and thanking you for one, in my opinion, good and broad debate on a large and difficult topic. I fully agree that very much of what is the starting point of today's problem, namely that many feel that the offers are too different, and that they can be changed and improved by either moving voluntarily or having to move, is that there is too much variation in the quality of the services, and that what has been termed ‘the game of chance’ here in the debate is too great. This is what many of the measures I presented in my speech are about, namely, reducing the possibility of ‘plays of chance’ and thus creating greater certainty about the quality of the offers being good. There has been a discussion relating in particular to the role of both relatives and users. I am very concerned that we are able to create a healthcare service and an assistance service based on the needs of patients and users. I believe that there should be no decision in the healthcare sector about me without me – that one should be involved and involved in directing the offer to yourself. This requires competence and requires an attitude and culture in the service that needs to be continuously improved. This is exactly what we call the moment of truth – the meeting between those who work in healthcare and the users and their relatives. What Micasen's representative had to do with good management is crucial. I believe that a key task for management is precisely to facilitate the best possible use of these meetings, through the framework conditions that a person provides for employees, the competence that a person has in his own organisation, but also the culture and attitudes that leaders in the service are anchoring in his own organisation. It is a great and demanding work, but we will make a number of proposals. I'm glad that the Workers' Party almost gives us a blank mandate for that. It'll be exciting to see. We come up with our own forecast of primary health services, which includes a very large proportion of these services. From the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs we are going to follow up a good part of these changes in the various financial support schemes, and we are also doing a lot of work to improve our skills. We're going to follow that up. So it comes a lot from the government in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e989	So the debate is on case No. Four is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1005	The public health report was addressed by Stortinget in the spring of 2013. A joint committee endorsed the national public health policy objectives: Norway should be among the three countries in the world with the highest life expectancy. The population shall experience several years of well-being and well-being and reduced social health differences. We're going to create a society that promotes health across the entire population. As a follow-up to the Public Health Communication, the impending Minister of Health Jonas Gahr presented the NCD strategy for 2013-2017 in September 2013. This is a strategy for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of the four major public diseases: heart and car diseases, diabetes, chronic lung diseases and cancer. These four people’s diseases are defined by the World Health Organization as NCD diseases – in Norwegian: non-infectious, chronic diseases. These four diseases have much in common and all have a large potential for prevention. It is well documented that the key risk factors for all pathogens are tobacco, unhealthy diet, physical inactivity and harmful use of alcohol. Diseases also face many common challenges when it comes to diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. In May 2012, the Verda Health Assembly adopted the objective of reducing early deaths of NCDs by 25 pst. by 2025. Norway has set itself behind the global objective. In the budget debate last December, Councillor Höie had a 10 minute long post without saying a word about public health or prevention. It seemed to me that I was quite special and was in stark contrast to the great focus that former Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre had in this area. State Council Höie nevertheless confirmed in the lines that the new government is behind the NCD strategy and the goal of reducing these diseases by 25 pst. by 2025 also in Norway, and that the government bases this strategy on its work. At the same time, State Council Höie said that government is opposed to some of the measures in the strategy. Governments stress that public health is not just a public responsibility, but that there is a need to play on teams with voluntary teams and organisations. I think there is a great deal of uncertainty about what the new government is its public health policy – therefore this interpellation. The Central Party fully agrees with the Council of State that public health is not only a public responsibility but also a personal responsibility. We are quite a few that there is a need to play on teams with voluntary teams and organisations to highlight this area. But the Central Party is clear that government and enlargement have a great responsibility to create a society that promotes health in the whole population and reduces social health differences. In this way, we need to give reasonable priority to health funds, to use health resources in a public health policy for our time and to strengthen the prevention work in the health and care services. A government does not have a credible health policy if it does not pursue a credible public health policy. «One thing we know – we have to lift in a flock. If we do that, the winner is certain!’ This quote is in the foreword to the NCD strategy, and the penance came from Klaus Hanssen, who was the president of the National Anti-Tuberculosis Association about a hundred years ago. The efforts of public health and voluntary organisations a hundred years ago were decisive to stagnate the infectious diseases. Today's public health work is decisive to stagnate the non-infectious people's diseases and lifestyle diseases. We know that we are facing a global trend with increased incidence and premature death of heart and car diseases, diabetes, chronic lung diseases and cancer. We're going to be able to achieve the target of 25 pst in Norway. the reduction in the premature death of the four people’s diseases by 2025 requires concrete action, and the NCD strategy needs to be followed up and followed. The NCD strategy contains concrete objectives and measures for all four risk factors: tobacco, diet, physical activity and alcohol, and I will mention some of them. For tobacco, the aim is that children and young people born after 2000 should not start sniffing and smoking. The percentage of young people between 16 and 24 who smoke daily shall be less than 6. The increase in daily snoring among children and young people should be halted. The percentage of daily smokers in the population should be below 8. No child shall be exposed to passive smoking. The percentage of pregnant women smoking at the end of pregnancy shall be less than 4. Measures are to maintain a high level of tobacco taxes, to develop the legislation to introduce an authorisation system, to ban self-service, to make more arenas tobacco-free, to strengthen the protection against passive smoking, to continue national tobacco campaigns, to take specific action against children and young people, and to develop good professional services to help tobacco-removal. So far, I have noticed that the new government has gone away from the requirement for an authorisation scheme, and that e-cigarettes may become legal. When it comes to diet, the goal is to increase the proportion of people who know and follow the national dietary councils, to maintain the high level of knowledge of the keyhole label, and to make it easier for everyone to choose healthy foods. Measures are to pass on the ‘Small Grip, Large Difference’ campaign, to pass on the Keyhole scheme, to implement the measures in the salt strategy, to facilitate healthy meals in kindergarten and school, and to have the ambition to extend the free fruit and green system to all the elephants in the primary school. But until the fall, the youth school students no longer get free fruit and green. The supply is not expanded, as the target is in the strategy, but rather reduced. For physical activity, the aim is to increase the proportion of young people, adults and the elderly following the national recommendations for physical activity and to increase the knowledge of the population about physical activity in terms of quality of life and health. Action is to carry out an information campaign on physical activity in 2014, implement the open-air strategy, assess how the school day can be organised to ensure students at least an hour of physical activity every day, implement national walking strategy and national cycling strategy, etc. In the government platform, a weighty Stortinget has its ambition to secure students at least one hour of physical activity every day. The government platform only states that the government will facilitate the day-to-day physical activity of the schools for students – once again: less binding targets than those adopted by the Stortinge in the context of the Public Health Communication and thus in violation of the NCD strategy. The Central Party has today put forward proposals in the Stortinget asking the government to propose a system that will secure all the elephants of the 1st to the 10th century. Steps at least one hour of physical activity in the school each day. I record that both the government party and the supporting party are some of us in this. The centre party was actually the first party to propose this in 2003, but at that time it only got our own voices. Now I hope that we can come further. This is an important health issue. A number of calculations have been made of the social benefit of increased physical activity. According to the Health Directorate, a well-being gain of 239 billion can be earned annually. kr if the entire population who do not meet the recommendations for an increase in physical activity level, from being inactive to being partially active or active. This corresponds to two hospital budgets this year. The profit is 27 times the cost of action. Yesterday I was at Sylling School in Lier. There they have an hour of physical activity within today's framework, without expanding school day. That's all right. But today this happens more in spite of the system than because of it. The national requirements for physical activity in the school are weakened by a new government, and what I see as worrying. Folkehelsa in Norway has been better, but inequalities in mortality and life expectancy, especially after education, have increased. Better-balanced Nordics have improved their health faster than the poorer ones. A recent review of social inequalities in health in Norway was carried out at the Højskulen in Oslo and Akershus. The report also discusses measures that can help mitigate social health inequalities. Many measures are entirely superior, such as redistribution through the tax and transfer system, strengthening efforts to combat social dumping and reducing poverty in families with children by improving financial support schemes. But here too, concrete measures such as one hour of physical activity in the school and free fruit and vegetables are being brought forward. I have asked the following questions in this interview: What is the government's public health policy, and how my council of state at 25 pst. reduction in NCD diseases in Norway by 2025 will be achieved when government cuts in effective general public health measures instead of strengthening them? I look forward to the answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1054	We have as our objective the strengthening of preventive health work. Good health is one of our most important resources, both for society and for individuals. But good health is not just the absence of disease. It's also about how we master our lives with sickness. Public health work is about promoting quality of life and well-being through participation in social communities that provide membership and experience of mastery. It's about entering into meaningful contexts and getting the opportunity to use and develop the resources we have. There is cross-political agreement on the overall objectives and the long lines of public health policy. A broad lashing is necessary because this concerns the whole population and affects the health status of the population 10, 20 and 30 years in advance. It is essential that public health measures relating to the relationship between individual health and freedom and the community, for example: the law on smoking and alcohol, has a good anchoring and break-up in society. For decades after decades, life expectancy in Norway has increased as in the rest of the world. Life expectancy growth is a good indicator of a social development that creates a better framework for individuals to live a good life. Life expectancy increases are linked to better health care, but even more so to other changes in society, such as better hygiene, housing, nutrition, safe jobs, regulated working hours, a secure economy and education for all. I still share the concern of the representative Kjersti Toppe. The consumption of fruit and vegetables is far below the recommendations. Norwegian 11- and 15-year-olds are well below the OECD average for physical activity, and also lower than in the other Nordic countries. The 2010 global disease burden study shows that increasing life expectancy is now increasingly linked to several years of reduced health and disease burden from non-lethal conditions. Life-style diseases are a major part of the disease picture and contribute to the decline in the quality of the years of life that we have won. It also means that a significant proportion of patient treatment in hospitals in the coming years will be related to lifestyle diseases. The health status of the population is therefore an essential part of an overall health policy. According to the World Health Organisation, healthy diet, regular physical activity and smoking freedom can reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease by 80 pst., type 2 diabetes by 90 pst. and cancer with 50 pst. Investing a little more in good communities is a cheap insurance premium to avoid unnecessary health expenditure later. National public health objectives are: Norway should be among the three world countries with the highest life expectancy. The population shall experience several years of life with good health and well-being and reduced social health differences. We're going to create a society that promotes health in the whole population. Norway has joined the World Health Organisation target of 25 pst. reduction in early death due to chronic non-infectious diseases by 2025. These global objectives form part of the national public health objectives, with an increase in life expectancy being achieved primarily by preventing premature death, i.e. before 75 years. Furthermore, by preventing early death, we will help to balance social health inequalities. Municipal authorities play an important role and have a separate responsibility to promote the health of citizens. National authorities must facilitate the best possible conditions for municipalities to discharge their responsibilities for the health of their citizens. In the context of the municipal plans following the next municipal elections, the national response areas and priorities should also be very clear. That is why I now want to start work on a new public health communication that will clarify this government's public health policy. The notification shall present new policies in areas which have either not been adequately prioritised or which the government considers require new solutions. Psychiatric health needs to be given a greater place in public health work, and we need to focus more on children and young people and on active ageing, and we want a new direction of work on lifestyle change. Psychiatric health problems affect a large proportion of the population during life. 15-20 pst. of children and young people have mental problems that go beyond well-being, learning, daily tasks and association with others. Nearly 300,000 children have parents with severe mental or alcohol problems that go beyond their daily functioning. A public health perspective on mental health and well-being is about focusing attention on conditions that affect the health of the population. Children and young people experiencing illness, life problems or mental challenges need early help. This is why, among other things: the importance of strengthening health centre and school health services and looking at how these services can be further developed. In the new public health policy, we must also strengthen the senior perspective. We're getting older. I think we haven't given enough thought to what this means for society. There's probably as much difference between people between 60 and 90 years of age as there is between those between 30 and 60 years of age. We cannot park the elderly in the rocking chair – they want active participation both in the workplace and in the rest of society. Combating age discrimination in society is therefore also an important part of public health work. We need to put active ageing on the agenda, disseminate knowledge and integrate the gender and ageing perspective across policy areas. We need to gain knowledge of the relationship between work and health and make the importance of health promotion and prevention visible for healthy and active ageing. One of the most important things is to reverse attitudes towards older people in the workplace. I have challenged the senior council of the new state to address this. Other important areas are age discrimination, housing and transport, participation and meaningful working days. Being good at senior policy is being good at managing our resources for the next generation. I believe that politics must be about creating opportunities, creating conditions for each of us to take responsibility in our own lives. Mestring gives life satisfaction, meaning and profit, even when we are affected by disease. The fact that society makes good health choices is an important condition for individuals to be able and to take more responsibility for their health. Facilitation of physical activity can to a small extent be done through laws, regulations or the use of price and charge instruments only. The World Health Organisation points to the need for a paradigm shift with a broad societal approach. Facilitation of physical activity and open-air life must take place in all sectors. It's going to be a prelude to social development. It's about planning new residential areas so that the children who grow up there have a neighbourhood where they can play football and learn to bike. It is a matter of making footpaths outside the elderly centres that allow the scooter to be taken out on a journey. Corresponding walking and cycling routes make it possible to go or cycle to work, school and leisure activities. We need well-developed public transport and service services and shops near home and work. The environment must call for play and physical development, whether in the schoolyard, in the nursery or in the community, and we must have good access to parks, nature and recreational areas. The school is also important. It is an important arena for the cohesion of social health differences. The government platform is very clear in this area – we want to facilitate increased physical activity in school. Dietary care and nutrition cover everything from widespread public health work to the organisation of healthy food choices for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation in healthcare. The food industry is an important premiscuous supplier in public health. The industry has a great responsibility to develop, make available and market healthy products and meal solutions in shops, canteens, sales and serving places. I therefore want to strengthen cooperation with the food industry. Cooperation between non-governmental organisations and public health authorities is important. The voluntary organizations reach many we do not reach through public services. I will build up under voluntary involvement in public health work, inter alia. through cooperation with Outdoor Councils and non-governmental organisations on increased physical activity and open-air life for all. Voluntaryness Norway and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have also recently joined forces to create a new national public health meeting place to strengthen cooperation between non-governmental organisations and the authorities. This government will facilitate stronger cooperation with non-governmental organisations in several areas of society, such as: in the prevention of children and young people, in the activation of the elderly, in criminal care, sport, outdoor activities, dietary and physical activities. In addition to an effective public health policy, improved health care, early intervention and the further development of preventive health services are essential in order to promote the health of the population. The services must be based on trust and the strength of mobilising and supporting the resources of each of us. We need to create a healthcare service based on patients' needs and up-to-date knowledge. We need to create a health service that helps people stay healthy, and not least helps people master their own lives. I believe that health is the same as mastering. Many people have to live large parts of their lives with a diagnosis. But if we master life, we also have a good health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1106	I would like to thank the Council of State for its answer. There's a lot of something about when it's about public health. It's very easy to talk about public health from Stortinget's pulpit, and we also have good news of big business and laws that are making sense here. What I want to address is that once we have just adopted a public health law, and quite recently have joined a public health report – the previous government put forward a very concrete strategy – the first job now has to be to get this out of life. My concern is that in some areas I feel that the government is going in reverse. I also didn't hear so much in the State Council article about what the government is doing to implement the NCD strategy and the concrete measures in it. I would like to commend the Council of State for pointing out that mental health and well-being are also part of the public health perspective, that health is not just the absence of disease, but that it is a lot about meistering. I want to show this with solitude, especially maybe in the senior perspective -- we know that loneliness may take as many years of life as other risk factors. It is also part of a holistic public health policy. Everything with regard to housing development, transport and working life is quite a matter of detail. This was also widely described in the Public Health Communication as overarching objectives and a direction of public health policy – health in everything we do. But I want to go back to the NCD strategy. This is about four specific diseases. It's about heart and car diseases, coal, cancer and diabetes. When it comes to the four main diseases, there are four obvious risk factors. It is diet, physical inactivity, tobacco and alcohol — so simple. Then we have to force against the four risk factors and be some of them too. That's what I'm asking the Council of State: these four risk factors, will the new government be actively involved with these? I believe that if we do not put in a bit of tough action against them, we will not reach the target of 25 pst. reduction of these diseases. It's a pretty big reduction, and we're in the headwind. So I look forward to the answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1115	This government is following up the public health report, on which there was a broad political consensus in the Stortinget. We have been committed to following up the strategy to reduce the burden on society with regard to lifestyle diseases. This does not mean, however, that one agrees with all the individual measures that the previous government had — one also has other priorities. This is reflected in the government's policy, but it will also be reflected in the new communication on public health policy. We will be more committed to mobilising the voluntary and civil sector and individual responsibilities in public health policy as well. However, Norway will also continue to use very strong instruments to reduce societal pressures in these areas. Public health is the responsibility of individuals, but it is also the responsibility of society. That is why we have high tobacco taxes – this government also stands for it. This is why we have high taxes on alcohol and a strict regulation of alcohol sales — this government also stands for it. Therefore, in many areas, we contribute to increased physical activity both at school and outside school. Therefore, this government increased the allocation of outdoor organisations, in order to facilitate more leisure activities. I think that walking in their vicinity is one of the most important things that can contribute to better public health. This leads to increased physical activity. That’s good for mental health — often one goes on a trip with others, and it’s also important. We also work with the industry to look at the content of sugar and salt in the food products. I'm going to draw up a good example that one can put three things together and achieve a lot. Last week I was visiting Senior Dance in the Mjøstreken. It was a wonderful experience. In fact, there are 12,000 people in Norway who are active in Senior Dance Norway. What's a do there? Well, a dancer together, of course, but within a fairly regulated form, which everyone can be on. Even the council with limited rhythm and sense managed to move a little. But what's in it? Well, that's exactly what the main challenges to the seniors in our society are. They train balance — physical activity — they train the cognitive part, because one has to dance in a special, regular pattern, and then it contributes to social community. So one meets all three major public health challenges for the ageing population with one single measure. A trainer balances, avoids cognitive failure and creates social communities and avoids solitude. This is a good example of how we work more closely with volunteering to achieve our goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1124	Health in everything we do, should be the key to us, and that is a long way to go even when I hear the debate so far here today. Thank you to the interpellant for an important debate. There's health in clean water, there's health in smoke-free restaurants, there's health in our safety belts and middle parts on our roads, there's health in how we organize working life, or how we build houses, there's health in bicycle paths or bike highways, which I like especially well, as I hear now that some places are planned. There's health in how we talk, and not least in how we feel. There is health in how we organize our society, in free school, in kindergarten, there is health in what we eat and drink – in short, health in everything we do. This does well show that the challenges facing the health minister and us who are health politicians are that public health is far on the road about what is happening outside the hospitals, outside the medical office. It's where most of the health and quality of life of each one of us is determined, and the pressure against those institutions. Health affects us, each other – what healthcare we need, and when we need them. Our most important task as politicians is to bet on what we know can prevent people from getting sick before they need treatment. It's about facilitating people to master their lives in a good way, and then we also have to facilitate people's making healthy and safe choices. I agree with the Minister of Health who says that we are all responsible for our own health. Own choice determines a lot – much more than we would think, and much more than some of us like. It's about what we eat, how we move – either in dance or other activities – and the degree of contact with other social, interaction. But responsibility can't stop there. Your health is also my responsibility – we have a shared responsibility for everyone's health. What I am now saying, I'm sure the Minister of Health, Bent Höie, could also say. He says a lot of the same thing. But Kjersti Toppe, who interpellantly has a point when she says that there are a lot of people who can talk about public health, that's when different social interests, different political goals, stand against each other, that we have to be measured whether we get things to or not. It is quite right, as the Minister of Health says, we have high tobacco taxes, we have smoke-free restaurants – we have quite extensive instruments for damage and diseases that are in the category we are discussing in Norway today. But the thing is, if we're going to get public health up and the diseases we're talking about, down to 25 pst., I think we have to admit that we need more tools than today. Then I think it might be a little strange that in the months that the new government has been running, we have seen a number of examples of concrete proposals for public health measures that are either exposed or cancelled. For example, I can. mention that the government has put in wait important parts of the new regulation for solarium in order to prevent pruning, it has made changes which, in my view, make it easier to sell tobacco compared to the allocation system that had been adopted, and they have ceased fruit and vegetables in school. And they have at all come up with very few new measures. Public health is, in my view, a broad approach. Then you also have to think widely, and you have to dry up making choices that – as I say – often stand up to other choices, and where we think, at least I think, that we also need to take more responsibility for each other as a society, and that not everything can be attributed to our own personal choices in this context as well. If we're going to achieve the societal goals we've set ourselves, we also have to dry out doing things like pain, for example. to introduce the 18-year age limit at solarium and to ensure that people are present to check that children do not enter solarium. I realize that it's not always very popular, it's certainly also a little bureaucratic, but that it works and will bring down the proportion that suns indecently a lot among kids under 18, I'm absolutely convinced. But we have to make that choice: are we going to do it, or are we not going to do it? We chose to do that. The new government has chosen to postpone it. I look forward to many important public health discussions in the years to come. The Labour Party can promise that we will be impatient with the new government. And if the new government does not come up with new concrete proposals, I must make sure that we can promote them here from the pulpit of the Great Britain. So far there has been a lot of talk and little action in the public health work of the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1141	“My chat” – that’s pretty much what we’re doing here in the house. The party I represent will build society on the trust of the individual. Each person shall have the greatest possible freedom and responsibility to shape his or her own life and future based on respect for others and for the community. If it's the responsibility of the state how we choose to lead our lives, it can quickly carry the place in the wrong direction. The role of the state must be to facilitate healthy choices and better lifestyles. It's like sometimes we're happy -- maybe at our most happy -- when we do something that we might know is not so healthy. Avoiding something extra is common when celebrating small and big events or having fun with friends and family. There must still be law, even if it has to be done without consuming fried potato products. The population is more at rest than ever. Such a stagnant lifestyle is believed to be as harmful to health as smoking. Children's play is radically changed in just one generation. One of today's challenges is that access to food, both healthy and unhealthy, has never been bigger. The majority of the Norwegian people live a life in abundance compared to other cultures. While the availability of food, snacks and other food and drink has never been greater, we see that there is more and more attention around training and health studios and increasing body focus. We see an increasing polarization: some are very concerned with body, health and diet, others are indifferent, as they in any case cannot live up to ever higher ideals and today's pattern of perfect life. In the middle of this issue, I believe bans and guardianship deprive us of both freedom and responsibility. The state's whip is unnecessary for those who are already nuclear drains, and bites badly on those who in any case don't care. Once, infectious diseases were the major danger to the health of the population. Today, lifestyle diseases rise as a health challenge no. one. Public health policy objectives are therefore clear: people should eat healthier, train more, smoke less and limit alcohol consumption. As they say in Ryfylke: ‘If you don’t end up with the uvana, they’ll end up with you.’ The key to better public health and combating non-infectious diseases is that each of us takes more responsibility for our own health. If we are to succeed, however, policy must play a role. The question is which and how. In the debate on instruments, we have seen evidence of superiority. By coercion, rather than organisation and advice, several cases have tried to get people onto the'sunny' road. We agree on the target. Nevertheless, this is an unfortunate development due to a combination of target-oriented professionals and regulatory politicians who do not set policy boundaries. In the worst case, it all works against its purpose. We now have debates in Norway on public responsibility when people are obese. The debate should also focus on the responsibility of individuals for their own health. We have to get the whole people to engage in more physical activity and outdoor life. It does not help the elite to walk the Birken when the rest of the country is sitting on the sofa and watching. When we plan for society, it has to be given just this. Proximity to nature and good walking and cycling routes stimulate increased activity. We have to make sure it pays to go and ride a bike to work. The Stavanger Business Association has launched the Bicycle Lift, both to reduce traffic queues and – not least – to get more people to stay in shape. Several companies, such as Aker Solutions in Jåttåvågen, have their own bike coordinator working for more people to ride to work. That's what we need to get more of. We also need to provide even better facilities for latitudes and other active environments such as speeds, relief corps and turnarounds. We need to facilitate increased physical activity in school, which the government has committed itself to in the government statement. The spirit of time has wasted many old diets on dung. Quick solutions and many empty calories have taken over the careful diet that shaped our culture a few generations ago. The combination of a more nutritious diet and less everyday exercise contributes greatly to the blooming of non-infectious diseases. I would urge the Minister of Health to increase the pressure on the food industry, so that they speed up meals and also become healthy meals. The ban on the highly harmful trans-fat started by the previous government has now been introduced. That's very good. The industry has taken some steps in the right direction itself, but there's still a bit left before we can say that kiosk and pre-food are always healthy choices. Because that's what it's all about: facilitating healthy choices. In the light of this, the right will see, with an open mind, on today's proposal from the Left on better labelling of palm oil products. Then we'll get back to that matter when it comes to the committee. After all, it is the individual citizen who rules his or her own life, who makes his or her own choices for his or her own health. I say like Sebastian Kneipp, ‘Whoever does not do anything for his health every day must one day sacrifice a lot of time for the disease.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1185	Public health is far more than five a day and a few walks a week. Public health is to provide safe children who are given a good childhood without bullying and care failure. Public health is providing the right information about lifestyle and diet and making it easier to make reasonable choices. Choosing healthy is always to be profitable. Public health is to facilitate increased physical activity, such as bicycle paths and more physical activity in school every day. Public health is a good senior policy, with active ageing on the agenda. We must combat age discrimination and seek more knowledge about the relationship between work and health. Public health is a voluntary commitment to health work, such as cooperation between organisations and authorities. We need to organise and support non-governmental organisations such as outdoors, sports clubs, etc. Public health is also spatial planning in municipalities: walking and cycling routes, proximity to outdoor areas for play and training, the possibility of walking or cycling to work or to the nearest means of public communication. Public health is that the food industry takes the great responsibility they have after all, in great seriousness, and develops and markets healthy products for shops, canteens, etc. We all live in a municipality, and each municipality of the country has a very great responsibility. Municipalities shall view the health and care sector in conjunction with the other social areas for which they are responsible and have a separate responsibility for promoting the health of citizens. The task of the government and the Storting is to facilitate that the municipalities are well equipped to discharge their responsibilities. National objectives and priorities include: more committed cooperation between permanent and local authorities. Patients and users should have a clearer role in the healthcare sector. Further development of integrated IT systems for the healthcare sector is crucial for better treatment and quality of it, patient safety and resource use. We need a special focus on mental health and drug work, in particular the efforts towards children and young people, with a focus on cooperation between the different sectors. We must work to reduce health cows, for example: by increasing the use of private and non-profit institutions and organisations. In a circular, the Health Directorate has asked the municipalities to strengthen their competence in health conditions at schools and in school settings, such as a health centre and school health service, as well as health and mastering work. So a little bit about children. The most common causes of children’s overweight are unlucky dietary habits, inactivity and long-term daily TV, iPads and games. Increased screen time can contribute to the development of overweight through reduced activity, increased food intake and the impact of food advertising. Norway is high in European statistics on child-restraint behaviour. Ingestion of sugary foods and beverages has been demonstrated to be directly related to weight gain and obesity in children and adolescents. The most important thing we can do is put in a lot of effort for children and young people. Here we have to do something active all of us, as individuals, state or municipality, because this lifestyle of the children can be the beginning of an unhealthy life with subsequent adult NCD diseases. I would like to stress that of course each of us has a separate responsibility for our own health. Most of us, after all, are aware of the risk factors — such as tobacco, unhealthy diets, fatty and sugary food, lack of physical activity and harmful use of alcohol. Then we live different lives, and life has different phases – we live alone, with children, without children, live in the country or the city. But most of us, regardless of the life situation – at least those who are healthy and can walk – have the opportunity to take a walk. Half an hour's fast times every day is approximately equivalent. 110 miles a year. It's far to go, but it can be important miles, and it's completely free. Here we have a responsibility ourselves. Sometimes it can be the little things we do, which become crucial for our health and our lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1217	I want to thank Kjersti Toppe for a good interpellation. An NCD strategy is a strategy for diseases that are not contagious, but that we can actually prevent. These are the four big bags we're talking about here: cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, coal and cancer. If we're going to be able to prevent, we have to start early, as we do with everything else. With early effort we talk about school and kindergarten – here we have to start early. Our Land wrote something about this week – about children sitting too much in front of the PC and the iPad, and moving too little. That's why I and the Christian People's Party think that public health should actually be a separate chapter in every municipal plan and in every county plan, because that's where the responsibility for public health really lies. When we plan new areas of residence, we have to ask the children where they tend to play – not where we think they play, but where they tend to play – so that we create areas that are arranged for them, where they think it's okay to play, and not let the developers take responsibility for where the playground should be. We have to ask the children, where's their kid's skirt? Making arrangements for travel and cycling paths and making arrangements for children's bikes think I'm an introductory part when we plan. We have to plan where and how the roads should go, and make sure that they are arranged for walking and cycling paths, so that we do not actually need to use the car, but we can use the feet. It's also about smoke and where we're going to smoke and where we're going to sniff. There has been a discussion about snuggling and its use in high school, for example. Should we dry to make an unpopular decision, or should we not? It's about a stressful life. It's about demands, about measurements and how we're on the inside and on the outside. It's also about public health, which creates a stress in people, which can once again develop cardiovascular diseases. But it's also about belonging in the flock. If we don't belong in the flock, we get outside, and it actually causes a mental disorder that goes beyond the physical part, either by letting us not be active, or by actually isolating ourselves – and that can in turn cause us to get a wrong diet. So volunteering becomes a very important task. I'm glad the government has said that it wants to bet on volunteering, to belong in a community I think is one of the most preventive things we can bet on. Then everyone agrees that it's about alcohol and alcohol, it's about diet, and it's actually also about social differences in our country. It turns out now that we've never had so many children living below the poverty line. It is precautionary to address these diseases as well, because we know where the risk lies. But to the seventh and last, interpellant challenges us on four things: smoke, alcohol, diet and activity. We know that the smoking law has worked. We know that most – if not all – are happy about it. And you saw it was unpopular when it came! We might have to dry up to take some other grip on closing times and alcohol availability. Maybe we also have to do that in terms of snuff or other things, because that's what turns out to be useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1236	Thank you to the representative Kjersti Toppe for a good and important interpellation and also to the Council of State for many good input into the future, for this is a long-term work. Social inequality in health is also part of what we bring into public health work. Some are born with greater challenges than others, and some are born with a body that is better suited for activity than others. I would like to point out that a group of new citizens, of whom we are getting more and more — the immigrant population — who bring with them a different culture, have different eating habits, and where there is a great need for information and perhaps also a need for training. It is important to change some eating habits, for example. the sugar intake. Unfortunately, we are seeing an increase in dialysis in the immigrant population. That's something we have to work on to get down. We have to look at both the sugar intake and what food you eat, to avoid that it continues to increase. It's particularly informational. It is also a measure that is important to contribute to activity and also to what we eat, and that can do something about the social inequality over time, that the social inequality is a little different. Then I would like to show that the Health and Care Committee was on a committee mission in Scotland. They've set out to be smoke-free by 2040. For us as politicians, there is also a way to work out that we set ourselves long-term and big goals. There is also a debate I would like us to address in Norway: When are we going to be smoke-free in Norway – completely smoke-free? We also have other policy instruments. For example, in its alternative state budget proposals, the Left has set VAT at zero in the last few years on fruit and vegetables. We believe that it will help to eat more fruit and green – which is good in all ways – and that it can also distort another diet that is less healthy. Governments were concerned about this with children and young people and mental health. I am very pleased that it will be given priority and will be given priority in the future. It's also an important part of public health. It is also important to speak in the politician’s language about this division of tasks, because today public health is in a way a little regulated – legalised to the county council, but which has very few instruments to contribute to public health work. In practice, the representatives of Bollestad are the municipalities that work most with public health. In any case, in my municipality, Gjøvik, we have now incorporated public health into municipal planning. It was a strenuous exercise. At the same time, we see that we lack both some economy and instruments locally to implement everything we want. At the municipal level, there's another challenge in the public health perspective, that's our drinking water. Today, the renewal rate on the grid is such that it will take 200 years to renew it. It's a little too long. We look at the patterns of rainfall and climate change that we have, that it challenges our drinking water supply. It's actually putting pressure on our prevention and our public health. Another concern about drinking water is the recruitment of this subject, which the municipality currently manages mainly. Firstly, the many engineers and skilled workers enjoyed the oil, gas, road, track and other infrastructure sectors. Secondly, too few people today are applying for training in this sector. The state is the school owner of the higher education sector, and there are currently very few colleges offering engineering training in the water and sewerage sector. Of course, not so many are applying for that subject. It's becoming a challenge in the future. This is not only about money, but also about important professional skills. We need to make municipalities more attractive as employers and show this to more and more young people who need to contribute and help us in our efforts to maintain our public health in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1259	Thank you to the people who have taken the word. I have a few comments to make about this that public health must be included in the municipal plan. This public health integration into municipal planning has been decided by the Stortinget in folkheselova. I hope that all the municipalities are doing just that. I also believe that municipalities should have an annual debate on public health. It's probably not mandatory, I think it's something we should be able to evaluate. When it comes to a new public health report, to which the Council of State refers, I assume that what the Storting decided in the public health report is followed up, that every four years a public health report is to be submitted to the Storing. I'm concerned that everything is now waiting, because now the new government is going to have a new public health policy, and all the work we have done – all the good actions that are there and that all the professional agencies support and recommend us politicians to do – is not going to be talked about, and we refuse to do it. Or the worst thing: that we cut the measures. I have a few questions: Does the government and the health minister believe that cutting fruit and green in the early school leads to a better or worse diet for the 14-year-old? Does it lead to less or more disease in the future? Does the Minister of Health believe that reducing the target of one hour of physical activity in school – which is in the public health report – to more unobligatory to strengthen physical activity is a decision that will lead to more physical activity or less physical activity, more disease or less disease? Removing the manning requirement for a tobacco hall will take fewer or more of those who sell to minors? That's why this was introduced. Removing the manning requirement for solarium will result in more or less radiation damage? Will the government follow up on tobacco law, against which the Government Party's Advance Party is opposed? Would you like to follow up on the tobacco strategy, where one has the clear objectives that the Left wanted? These are very tough intentions. We now hear that alcohol consumption has increased, while the political debate is about liberalisation. What does the government want to do with it? Trust the Health Minister that when a cut 50 million. What we proposed to improve drinking water will lead to safer water and safer public health – or the opposite? I am concerned that the actions of the NCD strategy are being followed up, and I hope – that is what I can do now – that the government does. I look forward to the last answer from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1288	To be very clear about this: it is now a requirement in the Public Health Act that municipalities should think public health in everything they do in the context of their municipal planning work. This year, for the first time, the Health Authority will supervise the public health work of municipalities, i.e. national supervision. It will give us a firsthand knowledge of how the municipality follows up the new Public Health Act. A main reason for me to make a new public health report as early as next year, as a follow-up to the Stortingen's decision on a public health report every four years, is to come in line with the municipal elections, so that we avoid the Stortinget treating the public health report just after the municipalities have completed their municipal planning work. The Storting will then have the opportunity to discuss the public health communication just before a municipal election, and thus a municipal planning work. That's how you get on with it. It also provides an opportunity for a new government to change or make adjustments in public health policy, in line with the policy of the new government. The most important thing is to keep pace with local public health work, because, as many as have been involved, public health work is carried out to the greatest extent possible in the other sectors — under the other national councils — and not least in the municipalities. That's why it's a little interesting to hear that when we discuss the role of the school in the public health debate today, it's about the areas where one believes the school, for example. shall compensate for the lack of physical activity of children during leisure time through more physical activity at school or where the school is to compensate for inadequate diets at home with diets at school. The most important public health work in school is the school’s core task. There's nothing more important to public health than that we have a school that provides education to people that allows everyone who starts school to have the opportunity to get a good education. The primary tasks at school are to disseminate knowledge and not least to ensure that those who do not have the prerequisites from home by compensating for failure at school receive a good follow-up at school. It's the most crucial thing for the school in public health. Then the government's policy is to focus on knowledge in school and on the ability of teachers to continue their education. It is one of the most important things we can do in terms of public health — and not least social inequality in health. What we see as a main explanation of social inequality in health is inequality in education and participation. Therefore, it is a paradox that when the Health Committee and the Stortinget discuss public health and school, they talk about fruit and green and physical activity. What was really to be talked about was the importance of public health skills for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1303	The debate on the subject. No 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1319	One thing I've heard many, many times – including here from Stortinget's Chair – is that culture is important. I don't think there's a single politician who never uttered those words, even though the most profound of them are meaningless. Everyone can say that culture is important. It's the world's most boring sentence, because it's rooming everything and nothing – 'everything' because culture is all that we human beings consciously or not consciously do together, and 'nothing' because culture only becomes important in politics when he actually prioritizes through our actions. No politician would stand in a pulpit and say that ‘health is important’ or that ‘school is important’. It would have sounded as if he had nothing to bring. Art and culture are not important – it is there. Art is not spice in life – it is part of the main course itself. This must also be the starting point for policy. Cultural policy must be at the heart of national policy. No politician who wants to build a better society for most people should be able to forget about cultural policy. To that it is too important for democracy, for freedom and for social building. My goal is that cultural policy should have the same place in politics as art and culture has in our lives. For too long it hasn't been like that, but the cultural promise did something to it in my opinion. Over eight red-green years, the cultural budget has almost doubled. The cultural promise also made cultural policy a real policy. Support for culture led to support for other important societal objectives, it won many budget struggles. And not least: culture was raised in the policy elite series in a different way than before. The cultural promise was a necessary vitamin injection into Norwegian art and cultural life. It wasn't a miracle cure. I myself believe that the cultural base wall – libraries and cultural spheres – was not adequately strengthened. Of course, it's one more time before professional artists are close to the safety of most other professionals in their everyday lives. Yes, of course, there are a number of important and unresolved tasks in the field of culture even after eight years with an important cultural promise. Cultural life depends on strong institutions, but cultural life can also be too institutionalised. Cultural life is best when they are challenged by the small ones, when a lack of voices and expressions engages and provokes, and when artists with different backgrounds and different ideas have the potential to be heard. Therefore, the cultural gap of the future can be even more markedly lifted from the bottom, as well as from the top. For this reason, I also thought that the Council of State struck quite well when, in a large speech to the Council of Culture in Bergen, it called “freedom, diversity and quality” as three key key chords, or leaders, for a well-functioning cultural life – and when it announced a peace reform for cultural life. Such a reform shall provide ‘increased spread of power, higher quality and wider funding of cultural life’. The quotation has been translated into new Norwegian, I must admit. This includes: suggest that the Culture Council will have further frameworks to re-prioritize. Right-wing alerts are that they want fewer political leaders in the institutions — without it being quite clear which leaders they are in. It's on this background that I've been promoting the interpellation that we're discussing here today. We in SV are of course some in increasing freedom and increasing diversity is good for Norwegian art and cultural life. At the same time, we're not sure what the government and the government really want. She has the chance to tell us more about this today. Then we are also – with a background in some signals – a little concerned about whether increased freedom in reality means something else. In the budget debate in Stortinget, Thorhild Widvey expressed himself as follows: ‘I believe that a one-sided focus on the level of grants over many years has removed the attention from the content and quality of the public cultural debate.’ – and this time not translated into neonormous. I must admit that I then thought: Would a Minister for Health, or a Minister for Transport, put it this way? At least I haven't seen the Minister for Transport, for example. has said that the five-fold increase in investment in trains, which we received under the red-green government, has removed the emphasis on quality in the Norwegian train debate. On the contrary, I believe it is taken for granted in most other fields that quantity – economic resources – is a resource. I think we can be sure that money is a necessary – but not sufficient – provision for quality. Roads, teacher's wages and cancer treatment cost money, but they also do theatre scenes, actress's wages and musical instruments. If the idea of a peace reform is based on the belief that too much public support for the cultural sector is a problem of quality, then I am concerned, but if it is based on a real desire to make everyday life simpler and more free from artists, to strengthen the free field in cultural life and to include more groups in the arts and culture, then I am more than ready to cooperate on such a promise, for freedom we need more of in Norwegian cultural life. First of all, cultural life needs freedom to set the art leading commerce. Theatre, museum, publishing house, film and record label with economics have freedom and independence to dare to bet on expensive quality and not just on cheap copies. Secondly, we need a free field of art – artists outside the big institutions, who dare to bet freely. An important tool for this is artist support. A number of prominent artists have received and received them – from Per Petterson to Mari Boine. The councils started their career by cutting them, before she was afraid of the Storting. I'm excited to hear if she wants to try to cut them again, because I'm overestimated that it will give less freedom to the artists and less lack of the audience. If we want to finance quality, we also need to be willing to finance the road to quality, and that path goes through cultural schools, libraries, artists' scholarships, educations – all that is needed to ensure that someone eventually becomes a great success story. Thirdly, we must guarantee the public its freedom of choice. The authorities must take responsibility for ensuring supply even where the market is small, if freedom is to apply to all. Not least I am busy with the freedom of the children. Think of a peace reform that would have been if children weren't in line for years for a cultural school place, or meeting a minimum library with glamorous shelves. Perhaps both Right and SV can also find each other in something – in a declaration of instrumentalism in cultural policy and in a defense of art itself. Me and SV are also concerned that support schemes can be organised differently and less bureaucratically, and I would like to hear more about what the council thinks about it today. My question to the Council of State is therefore: What should a reform of freedom be held, which can in concrete terms give greater freedom to artists, cultural workers and the public? I look forward to the debate on this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1362	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, for travelling this interpellation. I'm happy for every occasion I have to explain the main lines of government's cultural policy. And I record that there is a revitalisation of the cultural policy debate right now – for the first time perhaps in a few years – and we need that, both in the form of a proper discussion of direction, but also on priorities. It is healthy and productive for both cultural life, the public and for us politicians, and as Minister of Culture I would like to invite even more people to participate in it. We want resistance, criticism and direct speech. For art and culture are some of our most important tools for the interpretation of the world and our increasingly complex reality. Therefore, there must be ceiling height in the discussions, and they must be honest and critical. We want a healthy and free culture of expression in Norwegian cultural life in order for art to be free and critical. I meet a lot of people, organisations and institutions in Norwegian cultural life every week. Everywhere I notice a strong interest in discussing priorities, showing what is good, problematizing what is not working, and not least a great willingness to reach out to the public – citizens – something even better and more relevant. This will in cultural life is our foremost task as cultural politicians to create proper framework conditions for, but without detailed governance. The representative, Mr Solhell, asks what the reform of freedom should contain. He also asks whether increased allocations to art and culture can be negative to the content and quality of culture. The answer to the last question is essentially no. Of course, it depends on how the appropriations are used and what they are used for. There's a lot to discuss here when we're going to go further and develop cultural policy. I'm going to explain why we want a much stronger focus on content and quality, that is. a stronger focus on what we have actually achieved with our ambitious public resource use in terms of art and culture. We need to do that now. Let me explain what our freedom reform is: First and foremost, the reform of freedom consists in the spread of power geographically in terms of the distribution of funds and efforts. The government wants to develop strong regional power centres in cultural life. We will invest extra resources on a limited number of particularly good institutions and creative creative environments also in cities outside Oslo. It gives Culture-Norway a real competition for the highest quality – which exacerbates everyone. The reform of freedom also consists in the spread of power in terms of persons and environments. When the government now puts together advice, governance and selection, we try to choose the broadest possible choice to find new names and people from all over the country, instead of appointing repeaters from a small number of environments to influential positions – unless power concentration is created, and you get a too limited and narrow look at what's really important and good. Therefore, if we are to be able to find and distribute funds to the very best, those who sit in important positions and distribute funds must also be aware of good dissemination geographically. We have a strong focus on this every day. The reform of freedom also consists in the spread of power in terms of sources of finance. Private financing comes in many forms: First of all, it's sponsorship. Secondly, there are mere gifts of money, and in order to redeem several of them, we have this year introduced a whole new gift-enhancing system. Thirdly, private financing also consists of the vital, growing sector of Norwegian funds and foundations. They distribute billions annually according to their own assessment and judgement. We want to make even better provision for them. The reform of freedom also means that the government is providing fewer leadership and provides less detailed management in our many grant and award letters. Since we joined a little less than six months ago, the grant and allocation letters have had a completely different content. We do not have formulations and requirements that are incompatible with the freedom of culture and the great competence that exist in the environments themselves and that we must respect highly. In the stage arts field, we have, for example, removed concrete requirements for diversity in terms of inclusion and integration. The actors and the environments themselves shall make all the decisions they can make on such matters as are directly related to the content of art. Our letters do not contain non-professional references to the grants, e.g.: in the case of state orders to mark anniversaries, a special gender representation in creative activities or other. This stood for the red-green government. We really want a cultural life that reflects the diverse country that Norway is, but it is cultural life itself that is going to decide how this is going to happen. An authentic diversity is not created by directives from above. Let me give you an example that illustrates the freedom-limiting thinking we have now broken with: When the red-green government launched the Mangfold Year in 2008, the then Minister of Culture, Trond Giske, said outright that those who did not follow the government's wishes would be remembered by the next year's government budget: ‘The institutions are now challenged by what they do to contribute to cultural diversity. If they do not take responsibility seriously, it will have consequences for future appropriations.’ This was stated in the Newspaper on December 4, 2007. In 2012, the red-green government came with concrete expectations of participation in the hundred-year marking of women’s voting rights in 2013 and the Foundation’s 200th anniversary in 2014. Understandably, cultural life reacted strongly to this detailed management of artistic content. In Report. St. 10 for 2011–2012 Culture, inclusion and participation took the full step of the red-green government and demanded that inclusion and diversity should also be an integral part of normal programming — the programme content itself. It also states that the Ministry of Culture would place great emphasis on the systematic follow-up of work on inclusion and diversity, and that the follow-up should be included in the new governance dialogue. This was followed up in the 2013 state budget, which states that this dimension should be anchored in the personnel profile, programme profile and audience work. So the control was also supposed to go through the program work, i.e. the content. We don't want it like this. We will pursue a cultural policy that gives greater freedom. We do that because we have great confidence in the very art and cultural environments and a great faith that the best ideas actually come from there. We want a comprehensive state cultural policy. The cultural budget of the year is the greatest. At the same time, I believe that there must be limits to policy, and let me give an example of that: In this year's budget, we have cut the so-called cultural nesting package of red-green. The public shall not be responsible for paying for concerts in lunch breaks at Norwegian workplaces. Businesses and employers have to take care of this for themselves. Culture as an industry is an understated theme in recent years. What can carry itself should carry itself. We'll leave to the market what the market can actually handle. But sometimes it has seemed that everything important created by art and culture in this country is created exclusively thanks to state or other public money, but it is not. However, the pressure for a continuous increase in state subsidies is high. We don't need such a uniformity. It creates a less rich and less diverse cultural life. This idea, the one-sided look at the extent of state subsidies, characterizes many cultural policy debates. What is then easily invisible is the vast part of the cultural economy in Norway, which is based on private money. It is the artists' own efforts, the self-payment of cultural users, all that we as citizens are willing to spend on cultural services and much more. While art and culture represent important values that we cannot enumerate, it is a fact that those who create the art must also live from it. Then we think it's good that both creators and users of art and culture become more aware that creating art also costs money, and that both art and culture provide an added value in life that users should appreciate, both in transferred meaning and literally. It is the essence of cultural life that it is largely driven by private, free and critical practitioners, inside or outside the institutions. The alternative is overall public funding. But it's not a dangerous path, because it gives, in the ultimate sense, a unilateral dependent on power and therefore unfree culture. The representative, Mr Solhell, has, in several respects, criticised the government's Memorandum of Understanding on more private financing. He has made the ambition of more private capital a threat. It's hard to understand, as I see it. We need greater diversity in funding cultural tasks in Norway. Public support is a core element, but public money cannot, should or must not solve all problems. I also allow myself to ask the question: What is it really this counter-representative of private elements in cultural life? Is it not precisely this that characterises and is the very foundation of cultural life – culturalists who represent themselves and not least local efforts, which are often based on an impressive voluntary effort in choirs, corps, numerous festivals throughout the country, amateur theatres and revues?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1432	I thank you for the answer, which I thought in several areas was interesting. For example, I notice myself. the signal on the spread of power in cultural life and the adoption of governance, advice, selection, etc., and that one sees a systematic strategy to have a wider participation there. It seemed to me to be an interesting and perhaps the most concrete signal, and at least I haven't heard so clearly before. However, I need to comment in some areas. The first one is: Do we have a cultural debate in Norway with a one-sided focus on extra rights? It is possible that the Minister of Culture and I took part in two different cultural debates, but I have traveled quite a lot to cultural institutions and met many art and cultural workers lately, and that's almost always how we discuss the content of art and culture policy. We discuss literature policy itself, digitisation and the enormous challenges it presents, how the cultural sphere is and how it could be and what each Norwegian library will be like. In addition, they say that if we're going to get it, it might cost us some extra money. But show me the interest group in the field that doesn't include in their assessments that they could also spend some extra money for something reasonable. On the contrary, I believe that what presupposes cultural policy is a high level of content focus. There are other political fields where almost everything is about how many dollars you have in the budget, but that cultural policy is also about it, and it should just be missing. Then for private funding. It wouldn't fall for me, not once in half sleep, to say that private funding is not important. It's completely open. Almost everything that happens to culture in Norway is financed through hard hours and private money and what we do and set up with everyone. But what I'm quite skeptical about is that private funding should be the determining factor for public promises, that is, that it should be the ones who are able to get the most out of it, who are going to be able to direct the way the government budget is going to go. It seemed wrong to me, but I am strongly attached to more private funding. So I believe that the Minister of Culture is too often, but she doesn't want to'make' diversity. To put it another way: it doesn't want any of the measures that sometimes need to be taken to secure or drag us towards more shortages. The fact that both sexes are represented is an example of diversity. I think I can tell you that through history it hasn't been that everything has come of itself. Sometimes you have to push it a little bit. The same applies to the inclusion of minorities. You need one to push it a little bit. It's cultural policy, not cultural interference. I look forward to a further exciting debate on this issue today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1449	I think it's very interesting, and I'm looking forward to the continuation of this debate, not least in this Chamber. We are going to have a discussion about the content of cultural policy in the years ahead. We now have a very critical review. We're going through all areas of the state actually spending money on. We look at overlaps, where there are very many different types of measures that actually get funds from different levels, and we think that's a good basis for going through this to see if we can maybe get even more targeted in the years to come. I hope that there can be a good cooperation, including with SV, to focus on the content of the time that is coming. I think it is reassuring to hear that SV will support a broader geographical representation in the advice and selection that is now coming. That's something we're going to put a lot into. It is for us a principle of spreading power that power towards controlling authorities spreads on several hands. I also think it is reassuring to think about – and I would like to invite you to – that we have a broad discussion about this in Stortinget, so that we can manage to get more of the parties to call about the importance and necessity of private capital. I would like to reassure the representative, Mr Solhjell, and say that I have not intended to give the private actors any power that will determine what is to be given priority over the state budget – rather on the contrary. Conditions need to be created in order to get private actors involved. That is what is happening today. There is a large amount of private capital out there, which is involved and contributes differently. I mentioned some examples, including: foundations, which have a very broad commitment in different areas around them, and which help us get a rich cultural offer. But we also have many other arrangements, such as: enterprises involved in sponsorship activities, which are actually involved and promote talents that can help build up under and improve the quality of the various artistic and cultural fields. I think that's a great reason why we can build something together by focusing on the areas that you have today, and see if there's anything we can do to get more out of the funds that have already been used, in a more constructive way, but I think it's possible to do something with private funds in the years to come. It's an area that we haven't looked at. It's not to hide that you've been focusing a lot on building infrastructure over the last few years. There's also something that the Enger Committee has pointed out, that now maybe you should focus more on the content. What offers are actually given is perhaps one of the most important things that politicians are now going to focus on, and I invite that to a broad discussion about in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1464	Contradicting with words is easy. Freedom, diversity and quality are the laurels of the new government in cultural policy. What is a challenge, however, is that the government's cultural policy management has confounded itself before the job is done. What does a dancer think when I say freedom from the dance? I think he thinks of the possibility of spreading dance art across the country's dance floor, the economic framework that creates room for innovation, scholarships that give the dancers the courage to fail, liberating public support schemes and predictable pension schemes. If I ask an actor what she thinks when I say diversity, maybe the answer would be good recruitment and stimulation of actors from all the demographic aspects, good distribution of leading roles, strong gambling support for different productions, the ability to play classics, but also the incentive to set up contemporary productions. If I ask a film director what he thinks about quality, I think the answer would be a wish for support to try and fail, support to go all the way to good quality, because quality doesn't come of itself. We cannot adopt quality films, but we can adopt support schemes that allow us to create quality films. If we then hear what answers the new political leadership in the Ministry of Culture gives, it is somewhat unclear. Freedom is to be given to you, for example. by not receiving public support. Mangfold shall come of itself. Private business has to come up with new things, or, to put it another way: tax relief for those who want to order art and culture that fits the company's vision and brand. Of course, quality should be supported without thinking about where it comes from. I'm afraid we're raging the basis for how to live as a professional artist by betting everything on one card, and I'm afraid that the private business is going to be the government's new saving angel. Sometimes I suspect that there are not many cultural enthusiasts in the new government. If they exist, they have to dry up on the stage now. Until now, we have heard many fine words, words that can be filled with meaning if you want to. In the programme of the Workers' Party, we have given these fine words a content. We want to ensure freedom for artists to give cultural experiences of good quality by giving 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes. We want to secure public funds so that the practitioners get a safe and good frame, and we have to stay at arm's length because the artists have to be free. Manifestations shall be ensured by enabling all genres to develop their articulation beginnings, and by allowing the whole country to take part in the expressions. We get quality by investing widely to reach the peaks, work across the country and make cultural schools important and accessible to all children, so that we discover talents early and nourish them further. The base mountain has to be steady to create the impressive peaks. The most important feedback I get when I travel around the country and meet the industry is that the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government provided security. We were clear. I also experience a contradiction between what the previous government did and what the new government is doing. The new government is looking for private money and business support schemes, which we have always wanted to welcome as a complement to public support. I suspect that the private support schemes will benefit business more than free art.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1483	It seems that after quite a while we are finally going to have a debate on the content of cultural policy, although there are some convulsions, some who still believe that money is the only redeemable. For quite many years, the debate has mainly focused on the amount of the money bag and much less on what the money will be used for. The paradox is that on the one hand the money has been distributed with demands on how to use the money, while on the other hand we see, as it is cleared in drawers and lockers, that in several arenas money has apparently only been distributed, without necessary verification of whether they have been used for what was intended. An example of this was yesterday’s announcement that there is a need to review, for example: Disposals by the Norwegian Theatre Council for the last three years. So we've had a situation where money has been both the target and the mean. A crown to culture has been cultural policy, and to the extent that it has been content discussion, it has been about governing the content politically, not allowing the field itself to evolve. When we get a freedom reform, it's time. As the Council of State itself pointed out: art must be free and art must be critical. Our task as politicians is to create secure frameworks, good conditions and also to ensure that the money is managed properly. But the management of content should be as far away as possible. Red-green practices have been such that the money has been distributed, along with the leadership of how to use it. And then you've gotten back and thought: now it's culture -- I'd almost said for all the money. The representative, Mr. Solhjell, said that in the eight years of red-green rule, the cultural budget was almost doubled. Yeah, I guess that's not very weird. The state budget almost doubled in the same period. Once again, it's money counting, not content discussion. I squirmed a little when you compared this to investments in the railway. I know SV is happy in public transport, but it's a little strange to compare infrastructure with cultural policy, I think, unless it was a bookcase for trains he had in mind. We're going to try to transfer more power and spread more power to the art environments. The longer we measure the arm length distance, the less leadership and detail control we carry out, the freer art will be. We heard the council say that it is now being cleared heavily, and that the letters of assignment are being rewritten to remove the leads that have nothing to do there. This is the beginning and part of the freedom reform. Furthermore, it is important to look at the development of the audience. Large parts of the art field have a market. Much of the art is excellently capable of carrying itself. Some areas need only a little stimulus to grow large enough to become sustainable. It is good that many people want to learn about art and culture in Norway. That the number of unemployed cultural workers on Nav is increasing is not as pleasant. We know that the amount of application for the Cultural Council has exploded – the aid schemes are under pressure. In this situation, it is particularly important to extend the nutritional basis for art and culture in Norway. It allows more people to live by the art. Here, public development, industrial development and demand perspectives are important keywords. Then we can ask ourselves: What gives the greater freedom – to have to adapt what you want to create to public application criteria and support schemes, or to have more opportunity to choose where and how you want to finance what you want to create? I'm pretty sure private funds are going to create greater freedom. Why should money such as a consumer, investor or messian want to spend on art or culture bind the creator to a greater extent than if the same money has been spent within the state fund, further through public budgets and bureaucratic social welfare schemes? I am pleased that the Minister of Culture, along with the Minister of Industry, wants to focus on this at the Culture Industry Conference in Tromsø this spring. Gift-enhancing schemes are just one of several ways of triggering private funds. We believe that such will create greater commitment, more debate and, as a result, a freer and better development of the many areas of art. We simply have to dry out looking at culture to a greater extent as a nourishment. We have to dry the words market and culture in the same sentence. I did it right now. It went quite well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1513	Art and culture are a fundamental part of human life. It is the basis for the community and the community, a national community and an important part of international contact and community. Man is a spirit creature. Art and culture are something we need to cultivate, stimulate and encourage. The public has an important role to play here. That is why the Christian People's Party has supported the increased appropriations that have been in recent years, because we believe it has been important. The State has a responsibility to ensure good framework conditions. The Christian People's Party recognises the breadth and diversity of the cultural sector, and we will strengthen the cultural life of the time to come. At the same time, we should remember that cultural life is of course much more than just the parts in which the state is involved. I would also like to say that it is good to provide more private funding – several private initiatives. Private money is not dirty money. Private money into cultural life is good. But we must remember that this should come as a complement to public funds, not as a substitute. The belief that there is an extensive Sarepta jar out there, full of private funds, I think can actually prove to be wrong. The Christian People's Party acknowledges the independent position of the cultural sector, its autonomy and the artist's right to carry out socially critical activities. We have to take care of that. Free art, a free and vital cultural life, is a fundamental element of a democratic society. Good art can be fragmented, conflict-making and often anchored in the perspective of individuals, but culture has its own value and is not a governance instrument. We also fully recognise the importance of an active cultural policy – the role of the state in driving and supporting the development of art and culture, among others. through public budgets. We also believe that the Storting should be able to raise specific areas of cultural life if necessary. We're going to give cultural freedom. At the same time, we must have the opportunity to raise those environments, genres and organisations that are not being heard or that do not reach through bureaucracy. It is called an active and ambitious cultural policy. The State is responsible for ensuring good framework conditions. Under the red-green government, instrumental thinking prevailed and the power of the state increased. The Christian People's Party will increase annual budgets, but give cultural life greater freedom. We will provide more funding sources, not fewer – more support schemes, not fewer. The action rooms of the Council of Culture must be increased and not restricted. As far as the last point is concerned, on the Council of Culture, we are excited about the outcome of the review that is currently under way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1528	Launching a freedom reform for cultural life is very ambitious, especially in a country with a cultural sector as strong as in Norway, which has been a priority area for many years and which has allowed art to develop freely within a predictable economic framework. I am also pleased that the Council of State itself has said that the economic promise has been necessary. It makes you more sure that the will to cut is less. Norwegian cultural life needs a Council of State with high ambitions. We who are audiences and cultural users need it. The more the Minister of Culture talks about freedom, the less expectations become, the greater the impatience. I have some problems understanding what the Minister of Culture wants to free Norwegian cultural life from. If Norwegian cultural life needs a reform of freedom, it means that Norwegian art, Norwegian artists, is and has been unfree. Is that public money they need to be freed from? I fully agree with the Council of State – I believe that private individuals should be on the road much more than today when it comes to cooperation with cultural life. Several sources of funding give more feet to stand on. It gives room for more artistic development. Now we have to be careful with taking one hand and giving with the other. Strong public funding with private funding in addition is no threat to freedom, on the contrary. There is nothing wrong with the attitude to private money among the red-green ones. Money is not the only thing that is important – there are several who have said here. Having cultural policy ambitions on behalf of art, wanting something, is very important. Former Cultural Policy Spokesman of the Right, Olemic Thommess, said so late in July 2013 that a Minister of Culture must be able to highlight the importance of culture in a wider societal perspective. I totally agree with him on that. The red-green government had cultural policy ambitions when it came to the role of art. It should be relevant in the time in which it lived. Participation, democracy, equality, inclusion – it is not the responsibility of single actors; it is a shared responsibility when managing public money. But the red-greens had no ambitions when it came to controlling the content of art. I hope that we get consistency in the announced freedom reform – that it's about something other than freeing us from public money. And the Council of State Widvey demanded in the budget debate before Christmas more public debate on content. There are several who have done so. Then I hope that means that we're going to discuss the place of art in society, how the art as our most important common arena next to the common school can contribute to diversity, quality and participation in the Norwegian society at the premise of art – that we're discussing framework conditions and structures, and not the content of art. An active cultural politician sets goals and has clear expectations on behalf of which democracy art is part. Finally, I would also like to say that once the Council of State has pointed to breadth, initiative from below, and that art should not be top-down, I am very happy to see all the activity taking place in the year we celebrate that it is 200 years since the greatest freedom reform for our country, namely the Constitution. The red-green would have with the whole cultural life to create a cultural festival in the anniversary year and give extra money and make some premise for it. It was one of the right things that was most critical to and called content management. So I hope there's more than me in this room that in the Constitutional Celebration across the country has the opportunity to celebrate our democracy with great art and cultural experiences. It is a celebration of participation, diversity and quality that I am absolutely convinced will not threaten artistic freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1549	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Solhjell, for giving us this opportunity to discuss the framework conditions of cultural life, the organisation and the degree of freedom. When the blue-blue government launched its government platform last fall, we were introduced to the embrace of freedom reform for cultural life. I noticed that a point was made because the letter of assignment from the Ministry of Culture contained an inscription on requirements for inclusion and public work, almost as proof that cultural life was under pressure, and had been a victim of state domination. When the supplementary bill came a few weeks later, we saw what was the reality behind the change. It was not only the inscription on the to/from note, that is, the letter of assignment, that the government would remove, but also the size of the permissions themselves. The cultural promise was blown off, and the state budget was aged by a large cut in the cultural budget to receive funding for tax credits. I don't know if it's right to say that this is surprising, but at the same time, it's disappointing that the government chose to launch significant cut proposals that have a framework for the free field – those who received grants from the Council of Culture, newspapers and the NRK. It must therefore be disappointing for those in cultural life who took a positive view of the so-called freedom reform, that the reality is that Norwegian artists now have to make a mockery of the state's promises to culture, and that artists have to become more independent from the state and do more on their own. It is difficult to see that less government distinctions will give more freedom. We've just marked the 10th anniversary of the Cultural Promise. When the Centerpartiet, Arbeidarpartiet and SV launched the Cultural Promise in its time, it was under claim of walnuts and excesses from the then ruling parties. The history after ten years shows that they were wrong. The cause of the cultural promise was a recognition that it needed a real economic boost to achieve the goal that had been set. That promise was realized. The privileges of culture since 2005 and until today have doubled. In fact, the permissions are increased from 5 billion. DKK to nearly 10 billion. kr. I note that the Minister of Culture has stated that a one-sided focus on the level of subsidies for many years has removed the emphasis from the content and quality of the public cultural debate. I disagree with that claim. The cultural promise not only represents an increase in the cultural budget of several billion dollars, which in itself has meant a formidable increase in cultural activity and provision. Ten years of the cultural promise represent a paradigm shift in cultural policy. Never before has cultural policy been seen to be high on the political agenda. The economic promise is necessary and is an affordable political priority. At the same time, it is essential to carry out a review, quality assurance and, where appropriate, to adjust the course. Therefore, the red-green government also sets up a public selection to review and evaluate cultural policy after 2005. In that report, one of the findings is that volunteering is the area that has been given the greatest increase in licenses, and it has gone from being one of the smallest areas of the state cultural budget to being the second largest. It stands in stark contrast to what is, among other things, The party of government uses in the argument for its freedom reform. The fact that the music field has received the second largest increase in crowns and ears, and that, among other things, has been stimulated by the non-institutional music life that is in the frontier country between market and free will, as well as by the fact that the cultural promise has meant a marked rise in areas that were not previously accorded with state attention and distinction. Do the blue-blue parties think this is State override? We're concerned that there should be a geographical rotation and distribution of cultural media in Norway. The centre party believes that this must also be put on and fought for further. Freedom reform, which means that cultural life should be left more to itself when it comes to funding, gives little practical freedom and little room for development. Nor are there any signs of similarity between an active state cultural policy and over-management of cultural life. Nor is there any contradiction between an active cultural policy and autonomy for cultural organisations, artists and cultural institutions. There will be no more freedom if the country reduces its involvement in the cultural sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1565	Culture is essential for a society that focuses on democracy, community, freedom of expression and development. We need culture that challenges us, unites us, and makes us stretch, both as individuals and in common. At the same time, the self-esteem of culture is indisputable. Therefore, more culture, both wide and narrow, is important, challenging and entertaining, produced by both amateurs and world-class actors. It is also important that culture is throughout the country and that it is for everyone. But it's not like today that all kinds of culture are equally used by all kinds of people. In order to create greater diversity, not only in cultural terms but also among those participating in culture, there is a need for overall political leadership that encourages equality and diversity in institutions. Those superior leaders are not the leaders of cultural freedom. Institutions remain free to define their own mission and purpose. But it is important that culture reaches out more widely, so that we create greater diversity, and it is not so unnatural to expect an institution that receives a lot of money from the people, that it should work actively to make a greater proportion of the people enjoy its existence. Governments, like the Workers' Party, are concerned that the policy should not focus on how artists perform their art, but nevertheless she and her political leadership on several occasions have contributed to creating uncertainties about this by acting against their own words. For example: not the Council of State that Secretary of State Åmås gave political leadership when he proposed that some of the government's cuts in literature could be collected by removing crimp literature from the purchasing system of the country's libraries? Does she mean that it's keeping culture at an arm's length distance to control detailed money allocations by supporting two specific choirs, as was done in the state budget for 2014? How is it not overarching the freedom of culture that the Council of State calls a museum to question their exhibition? For the Workers' Party, it is, and has always been, important to give the culture freedom. There is a significant difference between business setting the agenda for what kind of work the artist is to do and their art is to get jobs and jobs. Private sponsors are, and have always been, a large part of the artists' potential for income, but for the Workers' Party it is an important point that it should be added to, and not, public funds instead. Privates may make clauses in their appropriations. If artists become dependent on such support in order to produce, it can contribute to a reduction in and no more freedom in cultural life. Better cooperation between the two, on the other hand, is the right way to go. In 2014 we would achieve the goal of 1 pst with the red-green. of the State budget would go to culture. It would be given above 11 billion. SEK to, among others Norwegian film, bet on Norwegian music in all songs, raise for dance art, increase bet on volunteer work, expand cultural school bags, cultural cards for youth, bet on Norwegian literature, the cultural school promise, a good theatre and opera offer throughout the country, culture throughout the life of the cultural spa, and increase equality and diversity. It had given increased freedom in cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1578	Last night I was at the literature house in Fredrikstad and discussed freedom and politics. It would have met 50 people. There's a lot more dramatic than those in Stortinget when you're going to discuss the same thing. It was me and a philosopher – who was a professor, and who knew a lot about this – who started. He talked about how difficult «freedom» was as the concept of political philosophy and other philosophy. I would never dare to say that I know what a dancer answers if I ask what freedom is. I would never dare to say that I know what an actor would answer if I had asked him what freedom was. I think it is quite brave – and bold – to stand on this platform and claim that you know it. The cultural promise was a great self to cope with the 1 pst rule. The left has voted in favour of all the appropriations – yes, we voted in favour of more culture all the years the red-green ruled this country. It's not the money you're against, but when you blow up support schemes by increasing them, without looking at how to manage them, it can lead to impunity. The important thing in culture is to spread power. When we control health policy, it's about making use of the money as efficiently as possible. When we spend money on our municipalities, it's good that we do efficient, good services. In culture, I actually think it's a point to be inefficient. Sometimes it's a point that power is spread in perhaps an inefficient way, so that more people get power. Maybe we shouldn't blow up the arrangements? Perhaps we should make more arrangements? Maybe we should create more sources, so that it opens up more opinions? This is really a field where we don't need efficiency. This is a field where you need power and counterpower, where you don't need streamlining, but where you need to give more people the opportunity to come along. I don't think the best lobbyists towards state power are always right – the ones who are best at gloating in their cultural building, the ones who are best at gloating in their museum buildings, the ones who are best at getting through at the top political level. They're not sure they're right. It could be that there are completely different projects that we should have prioritised. Therefore, there should be different sources. It should not just be the power of the state that is important. Provision should be made for the existence of counter-powers. It's about spreading power also from this city, which with today's support systems has a lot of power in cultural policy – because very many of the environments are created here, and because it is also linked to the construction and support systems. So it's important to remember that very many of today's artists are seafaring traders and live by their art in a purely commercial market – very many. Then they ask, do we have an industrial policy against that group? Do we make sure that artists today have the same social rights as many others? Do they have a social network as large as everyone else on the day it goes bad? Our self after ‘taking’ all traders and making sure they do not have ‘backing’ has destroyed too many artists. There are many artists who feel that that freedom does not have them – they do not have that security a good health pay scheme or other arrangements can actually be. I agree that it is important to have a cultural policy where you want to influence change. I disagree with the Minister of Culture that we do not have a goal of equality policy on the film page, but I have thought: Maybe we should have supported documentary films with a larger share? It's in documentary films that we have most female filmmakers. We can also develop more female actors in an area by controlling this. That's a much more offensive way than setting percentages. What I disagree with the Council of State is when she says she's for the free, but cuts in the appropriations for free groups and scholarship holders. I am very glad that the Left got it fixed – she should be too. For me, freedom is that we should have more public money, but we should free the private money. It is very striking that the Oslo region almost does not have private money, while the rest of Norway is very good at getting private money. We have to disperse power downwards. We must ensure that the core wall of culture is strong, and we must ensure that the conditions of volunteering are improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1601	I too would like to thank the representative, Mr Solhell, for raising the issue of freedom reform. Cultural life is something that should be built from below and upwards. This government does not want to govern like previous governments, by requiring gender balance, etc. within the cultural activities, or by directing policies closely within the enterprises. We want diversification in the country and competence in culture. That's actually what's governing, not what politicians themselves think is good culture. For me and the government, it's important what cultural life itself thinks is good, and what's the need. Culture must have its contents. It doesn't just help to travel construction or define from one group what culture is. What is culture? For me, there is a lot of good culture around the municipality of Norway – but it never sees a part of the state budget. Freedom reform is also about facilitating and simplifying, facilitating access to funds. Then it would be wrong for politicians and a government to define who should be given and who should not be given and who should make strict demands. Everyone who is supported by the cultural budget has once started in the small one – at some point they started in the small one. How did they get inside? They are there – many of them, of course, rightly – but how do new actors come within if you are perhaps not politically correct? What is it to be politically correct? What is a good culture? Is there consistency, or could it be that there are cultural actors that we in this room do not know about today, who should have been within and supported? I agree with the Minister of Culture – and support, of course, the government – that we must be careful to spread power by making sure that we get the best actors to sit and distribute funds, so that the funds are spread around the country. I want a culture that is free of political governance and of setting strict demands – because I want it to flourish. What some may not be politically correct today may be so tomorrow – if we let it grow. I think it is interesting to follow the debate here today. I think it's very interesting because the Workers' Party's representatives have spoken with two tongues. One representative, Haukeland Liadal, thought that it was a fury – it was approaching a fury of cultural life – because one now provided private sponsors, as well as public funds. One could risk, according to the representative Haukeland Liadal, that it was private business that served on it, not culture. I think it's a strange reasoning. I think it's good if culture can get sponsoring money as well as public money. If the private business also reaps benefits from it, it will be amazing, because that's exactly the means we sit and distribute. This is about value creation. It's their money – their money, their value-making – that we'll then allocate to culture. I also have nothing against it if someone manages to feed culture, if you succeed. It must be great if you can. I'm sure that so to say everyone in this hall cheers on some sport, and I think it's great when heroes – whether it's football or skiing or what it is – become knowers and earns money. We're cheering on them. Then we think it's bad if someone private started sponsoring in addition to public funds. And if they were to make money – that would be bad. I'm not afraid they're going to make money, and I'm not afraid that a freedom reform is going to hurt. On the contrary, freedom reform is more than just what we've been talking about in this room today. How do you get there? I've been talking about more actors, me. How do you get support? We don't know that either. Complicated searching? It's also freedom reform, to simplify everyday life for most people. My heroes, it's actually all of those out there that we haven't seen yet, that stand on every single day, that drive a huge effort. If we can make it easier for them, it is also a reform of freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1618	Part of the speeches in this important interpellation debate are marked by the fact that it is not entirely possible to define what cultural policy is. One speaks of artistic freedom and freedom in cultural life as if it means freedom from cultural policy. It doesn't. It is underestimating the importance of culture in society; it is underestimating the importance of culture for individuals; and it is also underestimating the need of artists and cultural workers for safe framework conditions, opportunities, expansion and freedom to realise their projects and pursue their dreams of saying that this should be almost exempt from political commitment. What is the goal of Culture-Norway? The goal must be that we create new and exciting cultural expressions, that we create good art, that we explore new terrain, that we bring cultural experiences to our people, so that as many as possible have access to and participate in cultural experiences. The goal is to maximize the talents in Norway so that we really get all the potential artists and cultural workers who can give us these experiences, that's building bridges internationally, that's creating good working conditions. We have many cultural policy objectives. A lot of it is about freedom, and freedom for an artist and a cultural worker is primarily about the ability to do what you want to do. It is freedom from – freedom from censorship, freedom from control, freedom from pressure from market forces or politicians or bureaucrats or granting authorities – but it is also freedom that one can actually work with one's profession, exercise his art, focus on his culture. When you hear, for example. The representative Trine Skei Grande talks about equality, it's like an echo from the right in the gender equality debate in the 1970s. What you have to ask is why are there so many fewer women making movies, why are there so many fewer minority representatives on Norwegian theatre scenes, why are there major social differences in recruitment to different cultural institutions or cultural areas? Is it because women are so unusually much worse at making films from a genetic background, or are there systems in society that make men come out, and women don't? People who have been working on gender equality policy for decades after decades have understood this for the longest time, that there are invisible social power structures that make minority artists not come forward, that women are not allowed to express themselves in the same way as men, that there are great gender differences. And, to say that, it's not just unfair for women, it's negative for Culture-Norway, because we lose many talents that could have helped to develop cultural life further. That's why we need a cultural policy to maximise the talent of the Norwegian population. That's why we need a gender equality policy within culture to maximise talent, to maximise freedom. It is the same with the year of diversity: freedom for minority artists to play on Norwegian scenes, to participate in Norwegian films, to participate in cultural life. It will be parochial – if it is a parliamentary expression – when the representative Trine Skei Grande believes that no, we should not have an equality policy that ensures that women get involved in making feature films, but we should decide that we should make more documentary films instead of feature films, because there are more women. So the freedom for women to participate equally in feature films is to involve themselves in artistic freedom, but rather to control the details in which genre to film, that's freedom. It's a completely meaningless reasoning, and it shows a complete lack of understanding of what is cultural policy, and what is artistic freedom. The cultural promise is the greatest freedom reform of the time for artists and cultural workers in Norway. That we have doubled the cultural budget has given many artists and many cultural workers the freedom to realize their projects with less governance than before because many more get yes, many fewer get no. I see the Minister of Culture saying that there are too many artists and cultural workers. It may be a concern that the Labour Party does not share so deeply from our side, but we are more concerned that freedom is restricted by the fact that we should no longer pursue the goal of increasing the appropriations. There will be less freedom when the Council of Culture has to carry out cuts in the literature field; there will be less freedom when the Film Institute has to cut down on the film budget. It would have been less freedom if the government had been able to get through to cut off the artist tips – fortunately, it was stopped. The implementation of the cultural promise and the freedom to realise the projects are the very bottom plan of freedom for artists and cultural workers in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1631	Let me take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for the debate. He has been, let me say, abounding, and – I might suggest – of varying quality. But I want to boast of the contribution to the Minister of Culture, not because I was in agreement with everything, but because I thought it was the most thorough – at least the most thoughtful – version of the peace reform, and I want to boast about it because she says that we want criticism and resistance. I think the societal developments in the next few years will give her the right thing to do, but I also think it's positive that we see signs of a more ideological cultural debate now. So just two words about some of the things I thought were at the other end of the quality scale, to say it like that. The first is this idea in different variants that before was all the money. As one said: before, money has our goals and means, but now it's just freedom. Well, we've had cultural debate in Norway before, we're going to have it in the future. It will be an economic debate to a certain extent – it will happen in the future. It's kind of not what it looks like. Resource and economics are an important part of all fields, but let's hope that we can continue to have a content debate on the important fields, for example. several of the challenges I was facing in my article. There were several, including: The representative of the Stordalen, who expressed it a bit as if the left side, as well as being against private money and against success, etc. No, it could not be removed from the truth. The aim of cultural policy is to achieve artistic success. But it's not that one can just decide success. One doesn't agree Per Petterson and then he's a leading author, just like a non-adoption of OL gold. But what one can do through politics is to create the way to success, because one has such a wide recruitment of many good talent, whether it's culture or sport, that we get a lot, that we have such good training, education and facilities that we get it, etc., that we have such good support arrangements over the years. Take Per Petterson: Over the decades he was a Norwegian novelist who was quite good, so he was even much better – in addition he probably had some luck – and was one of our very best and most recognized, among others. through an artist scholarship for many years. That's how we can contribute to success. It costs money and is also an important content debate. Finally, I also discussed freedom as late as the morning quask today, with a Left politician, over 200 people. There we were actually some about one thing, and that freedom means both freedom from and freedom to, or negative and positive freedom, which also the representative Giske was inside here. Freedom from supremacy, but also freedom to emerge. It also means that one must have an economic base at the bottom. I thank you again for the debate, and look forward to many rounds with our Minister of Culture in this Chamber and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1644	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good debate, and not least for a great initiative from the inter-pellant. The Enger Committee pointed out, as I said before, that a large part of the funds in the cultural promise have gone to infrastructure in the last eight years. They have gone to buildings, administration, houses, operations, wages and pensions. The artistic activity and the stream of audiences have not experienced a similar increase as a result of this Cultural Promise. I think that's a significant paradox, given that the state's cultural budgets have doubled in the last eight years. This, I think, is the basis for looking at it more closely. I really want to have a discussion in the future about the content of the cultural budgets and what we're using them for. So is it that too strong government funding can lead to cultural life becoming more concerned with what the state is concerned about than what they are actually burning for. That's what the Enger Committee calls target displacement. The committee believes that this means that institutions in cultural life have become more equal instead of cultivating their unique qualities. It is not the capacity of applicants to listen to what committees and government bodies like to decide who is receiving funding. Quality and the priorities of the performers must be determined. We now want to give even more artists and cultural workers greater freedom in their everyday lives, especially when they meet public application processes, support schemes and institutions. That is what we believe will increase the focus on content, and it will give freedom to the creative processes and will provide at best quality development and quality. Then I agree with those who have also expressed it on the platform today, that quality is not something to be defined in the ministry offices, but the criteria must be discussed in the environment itself. I also think it is incredibly important to remove the obstacles that we can find – all that closes to simplification and cooperation between the actors in art and culture, both institutions and free groups, both public and private. Then I want to end by saying that the government has put forward the greatest cultural budget of the time. I think it's going to be a one-sided discussion about the government that went off, was going to spend a few more money than what we suggested, and that it should be the bearer of what our ambition might be, is a total derailment. I strongly invite the Stortinget to contribute to the fact that we can also have a strong focus on public funds in the future, but that we can also take the necessary measures to trigger even more private funds. It also contributes to the creation of diversity and to the spread of power.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1661	That is when the debate is on case No. Six over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1667	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1691	During the debate Kjersti Toppe has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking health professionals to give priority to non-profit providers when purchasing private institutional premises rather than other actors. Quality and content requirements must first be met. At the conclusion of new agreements with non-profit providers of drug treatment services, fixed-term contracts shall be replaced by long-term cooperation agreements with the possibility of termination.’;» [[offer]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1736	In Case No: 4–6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1748	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. The President has been informed that the representative of Audun Lysbakken has asked for the floor before the sitting is closed, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure. The President agrees that the representative is given the floor and thus gives the floor to the Lighthouse, which has a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, also according to § 54.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1758	I have allowed myself to ask for the floor under Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure to ask a question to the presidency at the end of the meeting, and I thank you for the goodwill and the opportunity to ask the question not only through the presidency but to the presidency, for once. The background to this question is the visit of the Dalai Lama to Norway in May this year. The Dalai Lama won the 1989 Peace Prize for its work on human rights in Tibet and is known for years of conflict resolution efforts using peaceful and non-violent methods. Dalai Lama has been visiting Norway before and met Norwegian politicians during such private visits. For example, in 2005 he met. Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik and then President of Stortinget, Jørgen Kosmo. The Presidency has decided that it does not want a meeting between the President of the United Kingdom and the Dalai Lama on this occasion. The Tibet Committee has also been denied its request to use the deposit hall for its meeting with the Dalai Lama and has received a different meeting room. Today's Eighteen on the NRK yesterday argued the Second Vice President of the Storting that this decision had been made so that the meeting with the Dalai Lama should not remind us of an official state visit. He also said that it was best if the Dalai Lama did not enter the main entrance at Stortinget, because it would remind me of a state visit. It reminds me a little bit of the time that PLO visited Stortinget for the first time. Then they were smuggled into the back door by SV's staging group. I hope we won't have a repetition of that. The President-in-Office of the Grand Duchy has, in a commendable way, taken the initiative to raise human rights higher on the agenda of the Grand Duchy and to emphasise this house's responsibility and role as a defender of our fundamental principles and values. A reception of the Dalai Lama in line with what was signaled in the media yesterday, I think it's bad with that intention. It's like a number of Biggest parties aren't represented in the presidency during this period. That is why we have no opportunity to take part in the discussions that the presidency has had about a decision like this, and when the presidency has not taken the initiative to consult the parliamentary leaders, I think it is necessary to raise this matter the way I am doing now. So far it has, for example: it has been common for the loading hall to be used for various types of meetings with external guests and that all guests have had the opportunity to enter the main entrance of the Stortinge. The President-in-Office said to the NRK yesterday that he would not gloat in the difficult situation Norway has with China. I think we all agree on that. We're all followers of improving Norway's relationship with China. Even I believe China in crucial areas has contributed to a positive development in the world, to reduce the number of poor, to distribute power evenly between north and south. But China is also a dictatorship with a serious human rights situation. In meeting this, we in Norway must show firmness in our values. Standing up for human rights must mean doing it even when it's hard, even when it can cost us something. In my opinion, it is in Norway's best tradition to be open to dialogue and conversation with everyone. To meet the Dalai Lama is no hostile action towards China; to let him go in the front door is no insult to anyone. Therefore, SV will meet Dalai Lama with our member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Bård Vegar Solhjell. I also hope to have the opportunity to do it myself. I have on the basis of the three questions I want answers from the presidency: the first is why the presidency has chosen to say no to a meeting with the Dalai Lama during his visit in May. The second question is whether it would not have been natural for the parliamentary leaders to be consulted around such an important decision. And the third is whether it's really true that it's considered to refer the Dalai Lama to a back door on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1781	The Storting has not received any formal enquiry from anyone – I would say – regarding the visit to the Dalai Lama. So the Dalai Lama's visit is to be seen as private, where the representative Ketil Kjeseth is the one who invites and accepts. The Presidency has no plans to deal with it in any way other than a regular private visit, and what input you intend to use will be up to the representative, Kjeseth, who will attend the visit. There has been a discussion in the presidency. It's preferably come out of the fact that I thought it was right to explain my personal position, which eventually turned out to be shared by the entire presidency, on the question of whether it was right to meet the Dalai Lama. I think many with me experience it as an almost unreal situation that Norway should be the country in the world that has the worst relationship with China, Norway that is working internationally for peace through dialogue, Norway that is systematically working for countries that have difficult relations to meet in dialogue in mutual respect and all that is involved. It doesn't mean that you agree with everything, it doesn't mean that you're kneeling for important principles, but it means that you take on board that there are usually more conditions in a situation, and it also means – and I think that's a wise thing – that you have to listen to it in a relationship that's the offended party. I believe that if we are to move on with a view to restoring a decent and good relationship with China, we must also take their view of the conflict that exists. That doesn't mean that we agree with it, agree with the way they see it – from our eyes it's completely incomprehensible that China should react as violently and as consistently as we've seen. Nevertheless, we need to take that approach into account, and take that approach into account in an overall assessment – and I repeat: in an overall assessment – of the reasons we need to take into account in an assessment of how we are now dealing with this situation that has arisen. It is raised to doubt that meeting the Dalai Lama is perceived as a violent provocation, if not in line with the Nobel Prize, so at least a provocation playing on the same strings as the Nobel Prize does. For me, it is not the adverse effects of economic, cultural, political or research cooperation that are the most important thing – Norway is a rich country, we always have to deal with it, so to speak – to me, it is the middle-class problem that is the most important, and that is where the shoe is now pressing. It is also my conviction that the work that Norway and not least Norwegian social actors want to contribute in terms of human rights around the world, the space we have to work precisely for human rights, is not served by the fact that we are in the situation we are today, perceived as a non-nation of one of the world's heaviest and greatest nations on the international arena. Having said that, we also see that the limited scope for action we now have poses significant problems for many Norwegian social actors and not least for the Norwegian political environment internationally. And it's clear that I, as the Grand President, am the politician who is formally ranked highest in this country – that title thus bears a significant symbolic weight – need to take an overall assessment where all these themes are brought in. It is in the context I have come to believe that it will not be in Norway's interest that I meet the Dalai Lama now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1800	According to the second paragraph of Section 54 of the Rules of Procedure, there is an opportunity for each group of parties to receive an entry of 3 minutes, if any.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1803	I would like to thank the representative Audun Lysbakken for addressing this matter. As a newly elected staging representative, you can feel that you have been put into a slightly intricate beginner's course in labels and formalities. This gives an opportunity to discuss some parts of it – I will not address so much of the policy for the time being. The President-in-Office said that I personally invited the Dalai Lama to the Stortinget. I'm the one who sent the enquiry, but it's sent on behalf of a Tibet Committee; we have friends' associations on the Stortinget. It is established and has representatives from all lots, except the Centre Party, who have said that they should try to bring a representative. The fact that it should be a wide-ranging committee has been important and that it is a committee. And it's on behalf of the one I've sent the enquiry to the Dalai Lama. As you know, the Dalai Lama doesn't invite himself anywhere, but he accepts invitations. Then I also have on behalf of this Tibet Committee, and in the extension that we have invited the Dalai Lama to the Stortinget on 9 May at 9 a.m. 9, asked to use the deposit hall for such a meeting. There was a consensus on that in the committee. In its extension, there has also been a debate on which input is to be used. Firstly, I would like to say that there are representatives in the Tibet Committee who have been responsible for inviting more representatives. All representatives at Stortinget are welcome to attend the meeting, at least that's what I said. And there's room on the fourth floor for there to be more from each party, so it's nice if you give notice as soon as possible, and preferably before Easter, about it. Because there are also some practical aspects to this, such as: safety, both for the Stortinget and for the Dalai Lama. So, when it comes to the big business president's saying about the relationship with China, that's all the opportunity for representatives to set up committees and associations of friends, and a China Committee on the Biggest, I think with all due respect we should have. We've had a Tibet committee for many years, after what I understand. And when the interests of China have grown so formidablely since the 1950s, when the Tibet conflict started, it should be the right time to set up such a committee on the Grand Council, which has just the people-to-people relationship as its honor. And that is dialogue we want. It's not to annoy China that we invite a Peace Prize winner to the Stortinget, who is a spiritual leader and not a political leader. – And it would have gotten out if we had brought the pope into the back door of Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1821	I want to thank Audun Lighthouse for addressing this problem. I am also pleased with the statement we received from the President of Stortinget. I want to be clear that I do not feel that the presidency in this matter has in any way been unjust. I also understand that it is the President who has decided that he does not want to meet the Dalai Lama. I understand that. But I also have to say that when I hear the President-in-Office's assessment of the case, there is an assessment in which I think that there is a significant emphasis on what is then considered to be Norway's own interests. And we have a tradition for foreign policy to think in another way in our country, that we meet different groups of different opinions. That's why we've played a special decisive role in many conflicts around the world, because we've thought bigger, we've raised human rights. Here we're talking about a person who's just known for his peace exposure, because he's chosen a line that goes on non-election, because with his person he's just raised a perspective on human rights, so I probably don't fully share the health assessment that the prime minister here gives, and the decision he's made. The Christian People's Party is invited to meet the Dalai Lama. We're going to do that, just in line with the tradition that we want to meet people that we're not necessarily some of. I also think it's important that we don't let China control all of the dialogue between our two nations. We have some very good values in our society. I think we should also refer to the Chinese political regime: that there are some values in our society that are so important to us that those values are governing the actions we use. This is not a criticism of the presidency and the formal assessments they have made. But I don't share the President-in-Office's assessment of what's right in this situation. I just think that we have a chance to raise what is our values, and that it should not be Norway's own interests that are fully governing our foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1832	One of the saddest definitions of a politician is that a politician is a person who has so thick skin that she or he can stay upright without a spine – that is, that people like us have so few core values and so much adaptability that we stand too little. Norway still has a historical memory and a historical tradition as a small country, and we have a tradition of solidarity with people who are small, and people who are oppressed. Many of us remember the wave of sympathy that swept over Norway when the Tibetans came here because their country had been invaded and conquered by China. That sympathy is still strong and alive in the Norwegian people, and the Norwegian people expect the Norwegian big business to reflect it. As many have pointed out, we have nothing against China. We only intend to develop a good relationship with China and the Chinese people, but we are not, and cannot be, a country that allows us to dictate by Chinese authorities for economic reasons. China has still occupied Tibet. The Tibetan people are still an oppressed people. In the meantime, we've become rich. That is precisely why the time has come for us to show that the old idea of solidarity, which has been a mark of nobility for the Stortinget and for the Norwegian people, is still alive. Then we have to endure the consequences. That is why I agree with what the previous speakers have said. Then the Green Party will also meet the Dalai Lama when he comes to visit the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1843	Let me first thank the President for a thorough and sincere answer. I have great respect for the difficult assessments that the President has had to make here. But I still disagree with the final decision, and will maintain my criticism of it. I'm worried about the signal effect of the way that the Dalai Lama doesn't meet, is justified. The way this was justified by now and in the media yesterday, it seems that the Storting is far too much governed by the concern of China in this matter, and not for the sake of what we would usually say is the most important thing for us: our commitment to human rights and the people who are fighting for human rights. I'm worried about the signal effect of it. First, we need to be careful to put ourselves in a situation where we appear to be a country where our values are not more important than our commercial income. Secondly, we must not believe that it is possible to have a constructive and good human rights dialogue if at the same time we show that we are yielding too much pressure. I fear for what kind of practice we in that case also signal in relation to other countries, where it is essential that Norway is very clear that we are not under pressure for fundamental values and fundamental rules on which there is cross-political agreement in this country. I am pleased that the President stated that this with the main entrance is now a matter that is up to the Tibet Committee to decide. I know what's going to be the conclusion to that. I would urge the President to review the issue of space choices. I understand that there will not be a new assessment of the question of meeting, although I disagree with it, but at least there should be the opportunity to look at the use of the laying room again. Finally, I would like to say that in the situation we are in now, with so many parties that are not represented in the presidency, we – those parties – have previously contacted the presidency with a recommendation that extra consideration be given to it, that there is extra emphasis on dialogue with the parties that are not represented. This is a reminder of that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1856	When it comes to the question of contact with the parties that are not in the presidency, I take note of it. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to say that it is also just to make contact. You will be welcomed. With regard to the question itself and the assessment of what to do or not to do here, this is not a debate that has brought it up. But I felt a need to explain my position. I notice that others are doing this assessment in a different way, and I conclude in a different way. But I'll probably get to say in that context that in my own assessment I don't think I've gone very much on chords with the basic values I think we all agree on. For me, the thing now is that we are in a non-situation with regard to China. There is no dialogue, and we have no opportunity to promote our views and positions, either bilaterally or in other contexts, towards China. For me, it's a situation where we don't have an opportunity to do the work we did before, where there were actually regular dialogues, where we had a similar relationship with China as with other Western countries, which are, of course, on our values. I still believe that a primary goal for Norway in the case of China must be to bring ourselves into a position in line with other Western democracies, which means that we should have the same channels to be able to convey our positions through them. It's been crucial for me. If you talk about having a constructive and good human rights dialogue, I fully agree with that. So it's not possible today. Maybe it has something to do with crossing the bridges in the right order. In any case, it has been important for my position and my starting point. I would like to admit that this is not an assessment that has been simple. When it comes to the formal things, related to space use and entrances, I mean to have answered that. The storage room is a special room for which the Presidency will examine the legislation for use. Nor is it a room that until today has been a common part of the meeting room mass.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-10.ana.ud1427e1870	Then it remains for the President before the meeting is raised to wish the representatives of the Storting a proper good Easter. - The meeting's been cancelled.
