ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e22	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Vosskesen, Sverre Myrli, Lise Christoffersen, Morten Wold, Kristin Örmen Johnsen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Tore Hagebakken, and Frank J. Jensen, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the representative of Pål Farstad, on 6 and 7 October, and from the representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde, on leave from 6 October to 8 October, both to take part in the 8th meeting of the Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership in Rome. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives of More and Romesdal count Britt Giske Andersen and for Oslo Peter N. Myhre are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e73	Britt Giske Andersen and Peter N. Myhre are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e84	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e87	On behalf of the representative of Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to make proposals on the protection of nutritionists in the breeding area for predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e92	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e95	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the big business representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself for an action plan on health care against the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e100	The representative, Mr Grøvan, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e104	On behalf of the representatives of Oluk V. Bollestad, Geir Tuskedal, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I would like to propose a personal registration plate on Norwegian vehicles.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e109	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e112	I am delighted, on behalf of the representative Heidi Greni and myself, to present a proposal for a representative to remove the limitation period for offences against criminal law § 148, first paragraph, first sentence, second penalty option [[murder fire paragraph]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e117	The representative, Mr Pollestad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e120	On behalf of the representative of Liv Signe Navarsete and myself, I would like to propose an action plan against antibiotic-resistant bacteria in food and animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e125	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e139	The President will propose that the debate be organised as follows: The debate will take place over two days starting with speeches by parliamentary leaders of up to 10 minutes followed by a row of up to six lines, then 44 posts of up to 5 minutes, which will be completed in full on the first day of the debate, and will be distributed among the parties as follows: Working Party 14 posts, Right 12 posts, Advance Party 7 posts, Christian People's Party 3 posts, Center Party 3 posts, Left 3 posts and Socialist Left Party 2 posts. It opens up up to four lines on each post after two of the posts of the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party and after one of the posts of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left Party. Five Councils of State shall be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each, with a subsequent row of up to six lines. The President proposes that the parties should be able to transfer speaking time from a five-minute post to the post by the parliamentary leader. After completion of the allocated speaking time, open for articles of up to 3 minutes. Sitting of Tuesday, 10 a.m. 10:00 and starting with a post from the Prime Minister of up to 15 minutes, followed by a row of up to 13 lines, distributed as follows: The Labour Party five lines, the Christian People's Party two lines, the Central Party two lines, the Left Two lines, the Socialist Left Party one line and the Environmental Party the Greens one line. Afterwards, any remaining three-minute speeches will be received from today’s meeting as well as from those who sign up during Tuesday’s debate. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e162	During this period, the Labour Party will continue to work for a fair society with small differences and great opportunities. Where we agree that the government's proposals are in the best interests of Norway, we will provide support. Where we believe the proposals are taking Norway in the wrong direction, we will promote our alternatives. We now see that millions of people are working out of poverty. There are positive changes we must not forget when we are at the same time concerned about international developments. In the Middle East, Gaza will be built after the bombing this summer. The battles in Syria continue, and we see the cruel behaviour of ISIL, the world's most brutal terrorist organization. Uncertainty has been created in Europe as a result of the crisis in Ukraine and Russia's military behaviour in violation of international law. We are entering a crucial period for the international climate work with meetings in Lima in December this year and the major climate conference in Paris in 2015. An important objective of foreign policy is to make domestic policy possible. Norway has to continue its strong international commitment. In Europe, we must be united with our allies and partners and work to resolve political disagreements politically, not militarily. We're going to work for cooperation to replace increased tension, and we're going to contribute to continued positive development in the north. We must confront extremism and fanaticism with other countries. We need to fight the terror where it occurs, and we need to put strong forces in place to prevent – out in the world and in our own country. It's good that the government is now raising the climate, as it does in the throne. We can't be unaffected by the knowledge of global warming. We have to let climate set a framework for everything else we do. Climate is also linked to Norway’s major challenges in the decades to come: we are growing more, we are getting older, and more are moving towards cities and towards urban areas. At the same time, Norway is the community of opportunities. Our task as elected representatives is to understand the great questions of our time and to know what they require of us – that we are willing both to draw on important experience and to think new. The Labour Party will support a policy where we choose to meet the greatest challenges as a community. We are clear on this: we must build the country and we must build the country together. We need to build new, reconstruct, build on – dwellings, buildings, infrastructure – and build and further develop knowledge and skills in a way that looks at each and gives all opportunities. What motivates us has well-known common denominators from Norwegian history: democracy, our common effort in small and large communities – from the family through the community to the nation. The fact that we're able to keep the inequalities small and diverse rich is absolutely vital for us to take care of and further develop society's trust, our social capital. A rich country and a rich population attract strong market forces. We must meet them with clear democratic control to ensure development for the benefit of society and generations after us. Strong forces with weak control lead to an increase in differences between people, generations and regions. It's a development we can't afford. Policies must have a will to govern and to make demands for development. That's how we do it. that we have urban areas where there is also room for families with children that we have a health service for everyone with the necessary skills and resources, and that we have a will for public health action that prioritises prevention rather than repairing expensively that we take new initiatives to ensure the environment and climate, with clear targets for energy efficiency and renewable efforts, with objectives of less waste, more sustainable consumption, more reuse and more recycling that we have the will and resources to support our innovative business and our founders that we have an active willingness to counter negative income and wealth inequalities resulting from unequal access to work, knowledge and mastery that we continue to be a country where the city and country are linked, not a country that is failing successful means of using the whole country. We are now meeting societal changes that require policy solutions at their best: in working life, where we are in the process of having a social problem of dimensions in terms of social dumping and labour crime in the field of knowledge, where, in not many years, we will be able to lack 100 000 skilled workers in the construction industry, health services and other sectors, which are crucial for a country to be built in the business world, where we will have to cope with major changes, where we will not succeed because we are the cheapest, but because we are competent and modern organized in health, where social disparities are amplified, and where life-style diseases are growing, where there is still much work to be done to prevent and treat mental disorders and to limit the destruction of drugs in the care of the elderly, where we must think about new and plan, finance and build for the major demographic changes we face now and in the climate, where we have a historical responsibility on our shoulders, These are challenges that require good partnerships and the mobilisation of all societal resources, human and material — between political authorities and a diverse business environment and through a more active interaction with voluntary and non-profit organisations. The Labour Party will contribute to wide-ranging solutions, and we will make proposals – together with others and alone. We will support a school effort that gives teachers time and confidence to teach. We want more resources to strengthen early efforts to combat non-response and a force for upgrading vocational training. We want to invite you to a school settlement where we can agree on solutions that are for the benefit of the students. Then we have to set aside the privatisation proposals and bring together measures to strengthen the single school. The Labour Party will promote new proposals against social dumping and the growing crime of labour that threatens important qualities in the Norwegian society. We will propose an action plan against social dumping and hope that we get the government and the other parties with us to act before the negative development snaps further. We will make proposals for a cross-political meeting that we grant 1 pst. of GNI for development aid. The Workers' Party will propose a stronger state co-financing of major public transport projects in the major cities where housing and employment development takes place, where most passenger transport can be carried out on foot, by bicycle or by public transport. The Workers' Party will ensure the financing of Norwegian sport and look in particular at the state of the sport. It is therefore important to do something about the lag on the plant side. We will continue our strong commitment to culture through the Cultural Promise. In addition, we see major challenges in Media-Norway, and we will propose zero VAT on paper and digital media. The working party is ready to meet several of the matters the government mentions in the throne speech. We are because the municipalities talk together about how they can better solve their core tasks for the inhabitants. We notice that the government has withdrawn several of its proposals. We will support voluntary mergers and structural adjustment, and we underline the specific need for coordination in press areas around the major cities. We are meeting proposals for a new police structure on the basis of the study that was started in our time of government. Our common goal must be to meet a changing picture of crime and threats – radicalisation and extremism, organised crime and the frightening developments we witness in the labour market. We are in favour of a commitment to the teachers and hope the government accepts the invitation they have received for a broad school settlement. In foreign policy, we will continue to work together for solutions with broad and cross-political support, whether in Ukraine, Syria or Iraq, or in the fight against global poverty. We can agree on a lot in Norwegian policy, more than what position and opposition in many countries are doing. That's a good one. At the same time, the Labour Party will highlight a critical attitude to the main lines of government policy that we believe are weakening core qualities in Norwegian society – the action we believe reduces our ability to solve the major challenges that await us. We should understand and use the unique resource of tripartite cooperation, not close the doors to the experience and knowledge that the social partners can give us. The government should give the social partners more co-ownership in order to strengthen productivity, among other things. by including them in the work of the productivity commission rather than shutting them out. We should give priority to strengthening the community hospital, with longer opening hours, raising ICT, better management and organisation, and greater trust in employees. The government should not burden the hospital staff with bureaucratic and costly arrangements, the only effects of which are that private individuals should do more at the expense of the community hospital. We should develop a modern family and gender equality policy that sees the needs of both the families of young children and the families of care. The government should continue to work to ensure equal pay and the right to full-time jobs, not put family, integration and gender equality policies in reverses with more expensive kindergartens for most, cut in paperwork and increased cash support. We should make the threshold for permanent work lower, not replace permanent work with temporary jobs. The government produces temporaryity, more overtime imposed and more Sunday work as a recipe for ‘a safe and family-friendly working life’. It should be good for workers, divorced parents and disabled people, to quote the Council of State. But the organisations of both the workers and the disabled have read the proposals, and they say no. Flexibility is a good thing and especially when it is based on trust and responsibility. It is not a good thing when it is to be pressed against one party, with law and order. The view of the Workers' Party is different from that of the Government on the allocation and financing of the Community's tasks. In Sweden, tax cuts were high priority for eight years with civil government. Cuts increased disparities in Sweden at a higher rate than in any other OECD country. The government of Norway has made efforts along the same path, with increased inequalities, reduced well-being and less opportunities for joint investment. The working party is open to changes in the tax system. We are for a greener profile, for a device that promotes productive investment, and for a setup that stimulates work. But we say no to a cut policy that makes us more dependent on oil money and less rusty to build the country. We await the proposals of the Scheelut Committee that assess the corporate tax. We are ready for the debate on the arrangements for the tax system when the report is available. It is not a good idea to give priority to this important discussion now. In the census, the government announces a series of reforms and initiatives, including: in the field of welfare. We will follow the implementation of these proposals with interest. If the government is consistent, we assume that in the budget it will give a corresponding boost to the local government's economy, so that they are able to solve all the tasks they have been assigned to them. We're not convinced. We hear with increasing alarm how municipalities across the country prepare some extensive cuts. Priority will be given to giving municipalities the space to fulfil their tasks and to providing more money for care and schooling — the welfare services at all levels of population testing. It is important for well-being, but it is also important for value creation and business. Then we're back to the starting point: how do we solve the big problems in our time? The working party sees the community as a modern resource, which gives each of us greater opportunities. Having ambitions for the community, what we can get together, is a strategy that has given good results in history. Now it's our job to ensure that that strategy gives good answers also for the future, and that will be the Labour Party's direction in the proposals and activities we want in the Stortinge in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e300	First, I want to congratulate Jonas Gahr Støre as the new opposition leader in Stortinget. It is of course exciting to see where the Workers' Party is going with a new leader. Even I had the pleasure of being the case rapporteur for the introduction of the cash support here in Stortingen in 1998, and I am pleased to see that the argument about freedom of choice for families with the smallest children remains in focus. I am pleased that the new leader of the Workers' Party has come to the same recognition as us: all families are different. They have different needs and desires, and society needs to facilitate these aspirations. But it's not just about family policy. In the fields of knowledge policy, climate policy and health policy, the representative Gahr Støre has also indicated that it needs to be thought over. The only thing that is certain is that one has to finance all these desires, and the Labour Party says in its party programme that the total taxes and taxes should be at the same level as today, that is. last year. What taxes must be levied if the Workers' Party is to be incorporated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e311	I don't think the taxes have to be paid for the Workers' Party to go in. I think it's the voters who have to be involved and decide. But here there were many relationships, on a fairly broad question. Tax we'll think on the basis of which problems we want to solve. We have planned for this period a tax level as if we had been under government responsibility. We would fund the basic problems we have to solve in terms of well-being, infrastructure and the central problems we solve together. When we go against elections in 2017, we have to evaluate it with the same starting point. Our objective is that a tax system should be effective, that it should stimulate productive investment, that it should be fair and that it should be redistributive. We've shown, with experience, that we can have a tax system that makes it possible to have a competitive and adaptable business and that we're doing the most important welfare tasks. It'll be our inspiration as well when we're evaluating taxes for a new period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e320	There were many good estimates in the post for Gahr Støre. He's concerned that there's a lot in common, and that we're going to work together on here in the Storting. I agree. In the field of transport and public transport, the Workers' Party has now promised to increase – and Gahr Støre said in his contribution – the state funding of the collective projects in the four major cities. However, the Workers' Party has at least said in the past that this should be done within the existing framework of the National Transport Plan. It is good that the Workers' Party has come to the conclusion that the State should contribute more than they themselves were willing to go into government. My question is: as long as this is to happen within the NTP framework, which projects in District Norway will get less when the big cities get more?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e327	Let me remind you that the great promise in the area of transport came in our time of government – especially in the railway sector, but also in the road. We also took many other organizational steps. What we have pointed out is that the challenges in the big cities, which require us to build new ones where people are going to live and work, must be seen in the context of public transport, so that we can use public transport rather than cars. In the urban environment packages, which were inside our transport plan of 26 billion. kr, we had added up to the first estimate of how this could happen, with a funding up to 50 pst. We believe that with the challenges we are facing in the years ahead, we should be able to increase to 70 pst in the four largest cities in the pressed areas. This must then be reflected in our budgetary efforts in the field of public transport and, in particular, in the field of rail.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e336	I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Gahr Støre luck as head of opposition in Stortinget. In his 15-minute post, the staging representative was in very different areas. At the end of his speech, the representative Gahr also found that care policy was important – as a precautionary statement. In the government of which the representative was part, the aim was to establish 12,000 new posts in this sector, while the supply was up to the end of 2013, which was 1,976 seats. How does the representative think it would be possible to put in place the 12,000 new posts when you saw how short you had come in your reign?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e343	This is, of course, a dear debate – on commitments to grant grants for the construction of care facilities. I have been in that debate for a while. We'll see as we approach the end of 2015. The impression I have is that the municipalities that have applied for funds to build new nursing homes have received it – everyone has received what they have applied for. What has happened is that new places have also replaced old ones. Double rooms have become ones. Refurbishment has given new rooms, and old rooms have been torn. We believe that there has been a significant upgrading of the care sector in our time, inter alia. through a strong commitment to the knowledge and competence of those working in the sector. But we've also recognised that we have some major challenges and some goals we haven't achieved in terms of lucky day care places. This has led us now to a rather thorough consideration of how we, as a community, should prioritise resources and efforts to meet these challenges. The increase in the number of older people comes in five–six years. It's very short time – it's about the time it takes to plan and build new places. We would like to participate in discussions with the government and others about how best to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e352	I would also like to congratulate Jonas Gahr Støre as leader of the Labour Party. I'm a little more uncertain about whether I want to congratulate him as opposition leader on behalf of all the opposition parties – the Christian People's Party is also part of the constructive opposition here on Stortinget. But I know it's a matter in which both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have our involvement. We also have seats in the government and seen that the child poverty in Norway has risen, and that we have not managed to reduce it. Now the government comes up with a proposal, which I don't know about, which says something that you want to do something on the kindergarten page, that you want to let the great majority pay a little more, so that those who need it the most, will have to pay less – one does something about it. Audun Lysbakken, Gahr Støre's close ally, is negative to this. What do the Workers' Party and Gahr Støre think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e360	As I have heard the representative Lysbakken, he has not expressed himself negatively to doing kindergartens something more reasonable for those who are the most difficult. But he's pointed out a point I'm going to join: how do you distribute the whole thing? Here, there's a redistribution in kindergarten. We believe that in society as a whole, we should have found resources for those who have the strongest shoulders to pay for those babysitting places to be slightly cheaper. What is important about this reform, and which we need to study in more detail, is if nothing else is about to happen, namely that the next group of families with a rather scarce economy will experience more expensive kindergartens, which means they don't choose kindergartens. That's why this zero-sum game in the nursery economy is something we're critical of. We know that some groups of parents, e.g. Lone parents and others will be able to come into a situation where opt-outs of kindergartens will be the result of this reform. So here's the sharing grip I'm critical of, and I've come to realize that the representative Lightbakken – who can speak very well for himself – is critical of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e367	I would also like to take the opportunity to wish Gahr Støre a welcome as opposition leader. If he needs some experience help, he'd like to get it from others, sail if we have plans that it won't be that long, but I guess we both have. I want to ask a question about something that Gahr Støre said this summer, but that turned out not to be – I shouldn't say it was said with a cross of lies – quite seriously meant. We are facing an incredible challenge in terms of climate. Some of the solutions are that all the oil in the world cannot be pumped up. Norway does not contribute so much to cutting there, but now we actually have a government that has an agreement with two parties in the Storting to not drill in an area, the Lofoten and the Vesterål, because it is such a unique natural area. Is there any area in Norway where Gahr Støre sees that it should not be pumped up because it actually has as much value as natural areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e374	The answer to that is yes. We have a number of areas that today are not open to such drilling, for example, Skagerrak. and areas along our coast where it is not open for drilling. The situation is also the one to which the representative refers, in Lofoten and the West Pole and elsewhere. So this is the Labour Party's attitude and must be made very experience-based. We have comprehensive management plans that have served us well in that context. To the question: I think I've expressed myself in that way that we're going to achieve IEA's goal, we see a global picture, that there will be fossil fuels under the ground once this oil age is over, and we can't be untouched by following it. But good Norwegian resource management is about having a high and stable search level that allows us to deliver low-emission oil and gas to a world market that will demand it in the years to come, while taking our global climate responsibility seriously, and that we have a keen eye for what nature and environment require when we operate off our long coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e381	I expect that Jonas Gahr Støre has thought that we are all going to help solve the climate crisis and stop the dangerous climate change. Then we can't just build the country, but we have to build the country green. This is also the conclusion of the report by The New Climate Economy, presented by Jens Stoltenberg, our former Prime Minister and UN Special Envoy for Climate Change until recently. The report has exactly that message, namely that you have to build green. It says that the choices we take in the next fifteen years, either will lock us in the future with increasing pollution, or help us move the world in a more sustainable, low-carbon direction. Few of the projects that we're going to deal with here in Stortinget in the next few years are a better example of just this than the development of new E18 between Bærum, Asker and Oslo, which is planned for 14 fields. But it is if we invest in locking fossil emissions, that we will not succeed. Does Jonas Gahr Støre agree to review this project in the light of the need to address climate change?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e390	Firstly, that UN report is very good and thoughtful. It indicates that two cities of roughly the same size, Atlanta in the United States and Barcelona in Spain, have ten differences in climate emissions because they have built and planned for where people live and how they travel, differently. It should also inspire the way we build. Now I'm not going to go into already adopted plans for how to build roads in and around the capital, but in my post I was quite clear that the urban planning we have to operate should become a key strategy in the way we do climate change work, something like that. former environmental protection minister Solhjell was a spokesperson for, and the government I took part in. Nor can we be completely stationary in the way we look at financial instruments and other schemes that stimulate not least collective investment, which I had in mind in my contribution. I am absolutely sure that in our capital, which is among the fastest growing in Europe, we also need to think about the collective effort, so that we can go in and out to work and housing collectively, with low emissions, and not each in one car.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e397	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e400	The world is in constant change, but in some periods changes happen faster, more dramatic and more unexpected than in others. We are unfortunately within such a period now. Before the elections, the security policy situation in Europe was relatively stable and normal. ISIL wasn't a name many knew about. Syrians were not a concept. Ukraine appeared as one country with undisputed borders, not a divided country, divided between those who want to orientation towards the west, and those who look towards Russia. When the world changes, Norwegian policy must follow. That's why we have to be more conscious than before to fight radicalization at home and out. We need to be ready to contribute as best we can to creating peace and stability in the world. It is to the credit of Stortinget that we can basically work together on how Norway contributes best in such situations. Because the world is changing, the parties in all areas can't just assume where we stood before the election. When the picture changes, we need a broadest possible change of words about the challenges we face. The government has therefore asked the head of defence for a professional-military council on the basis of the future structure and composition of the defence. This is a first step towards a new long-term plan on which this enlargement will cooperate. Cooperation and compromise are a necessity in our democratic system. The games agree when we can, because we have to. We need each other. That's good. A good year after the elections, it is a pleasure to see that parliamentaryism has been revitalized. Important matters are decided again in this house and in this room. This is healthy for democracy and public debate. The year has also shown that the cooperation agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left works well and ensures significant influence for all the parties. I'm happy about that, because through our creative disagreement and collective agreement, we give our voters the political change they asked for. Cooperation provides good solutions for the people of our country. The parliamentary situation has also provided other parties, in cooperation with the government parties, with an impact on matters which they had promised their voters. It is a strength for democracy. The 2013 elections gave the four co-operation parties a historically strong upturn in the population. The desire for new policies has almost never been expressed more strongly. For its own part, the Right voters promised new ideas and better solutions. We deliver on this – in good cooperation with the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is no doubt about it: The voters wanted a change. They thought it was possible to recognise that, although there is a lot of good going on in Norway, we have challenges and no guarantee that things will go well in the future. They wanted politicians who would solve important tasks today and prepare Norway for the future. Our goal is a society with opportunities for everyone. It's a vision that requires a lot of us to fulfill. If we are to do that, we need to improve and finance the welfare community. The welfare community needs to be improved because the masks in our social security network are too large, and there are too many that fall through. The holes must be sealed, and more people must be on their own. More people have to get the help they need. The welfare society must be financed because it is the only way to ensure lasting well-being. Therefore, competitiveness needs to be strengthened and safe jobs created. We have to create more, not more treasure. We have failed many of those who need the most help of society: children in the care of children, mentally ill and drug users. That's why we've prioritised purchasing free capacity from private individuals to bring down the queues within rushes and psychiatry. We have prioritised adapting school education in the field of child protection. This is important for more people to stand on their own and master social and work life. Too many people wait unnecessarily long in a health queue and go ill rather than work. The government will therefore use the free capacity of private and non-profit institutions to speed up the processing of more people — on public account. The sum is that we improve the welfare community. The welfare society must be financed, because sooner or later it collapses if it is not sustainable. If the welfare community is to be financed, the income from the mainland economy must rise, because we are moving towards a future where oil revenue goes down. This is why the government gives tax incentives to Norwegian business owners and ordinary workers – to pay off working and to pay off creating jobs, which are the foundation of sustainable welfare. We are improving the commitment to research and innovation today – to create the ideas and solutions the world can live with, and with which Norway will live and off, in the future. The government is renewing and improving the construction of the road and the track so that we can get better traffic faster. We create a more efficient and digital public sector. When we simplify, it will be easier for the owner of the car repair shop to operate efficiently. It'll be easier to be a business owner. Maybe he can take in a new apprentice? This creates a new job and opportunities for a new generation. The sum is that we make it easier to create the values and jobs that finance well-being. The most important thing to ensure lasting well-being is to give our children opportunities: a good schooling, a safe job in a profession that makes sense, the ability to create their own family and eventually to equip the next generation for the future. The government has just launched the Teacher Lift, because Norwegian students need to learn more. The criticism from those who for eight years had the opportunity to do the same things was as follows: Because they agreed on all the measures, the Teacher Lift came too late. It should have been in place before. This is a crushing criticism of the red-green government's paralysis of action in school policy, which is difficult to be unaffected by or disagreed with – especially when it comes from themselves. The teacher's vow is a promise to Norwegian students: they will learn more, and they will acquire the knowledge that will enable them to cope with life with the best conditions, so that they can take the responsibility they get and find the place in life they want. There is no doubt about it: The voters wanted a new policy. Most people wanted a simpler everyday life. Small things are also worth caring about – because the sum of small loads can be large. Nor is it a political honor to ignore everyday challenges because they are not important enough measured against other issues. Politicians who are so concerned with the big questions that they can't be broken by the little ones don't represent the people's best interests. We give voters more trust and freedom of choice, because we think they'll do the best for themselves and society. The people of this country have creativity and creativity. If we give each individual – and small and large communities – greater space to unfold, we also improve the welfare community. The voters took the climate challenge seriously. That is why they voted in favour of a political majority that would not point to the climate agreement, but would reinforce it. We are doing well: billions of investment in climate technology, more money for public transport and faster phase-out of fossil oil firing. A green tax commission has been set up and the State pension fund abroad has been mandated to increase green investment. Depreciation rules to accelerate the development of renewable energy in Norway are now being launched. The green shift is not on the way – under this government it is going on. Many voters felt that the rules of the labour market were not in line with family life or gave them the opportunities they wanted. That is why we were given a clear mandate to renew, simplify and improve laws and regulations, so that more people can have the flexibility they want, and more people can have the opportunities they need. The voters saw a public sector with the need to be renewed, simplified and improved – more in line with the rest of society, more accessible, more digital, more flexible and better able to solve the most important welfare tasks. We were given a mandate to implement, and we implement. But also in foreign policy, where there is broad agreement on the major lines, there are changes by a new majority. We may see it more clearly in the area of aid policy. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has agreed that we should give priority to development aid results, and that we best achieve it by focusing more on girls' education in poor countries – as well as health. It's improving and financing welfare in the world. All the parties in this room have one thing in common, which I believe is important to recognise in the further debate: we want the best for our fellow human beings. But with different ideological bases, we also have different views on how to design practical policies. That's why we're different parties. We do each other better when we can challenge each other's ideas and solutions. We make each other worse when we suspect each other's values and motives. I hope in this debate we will take time to make each other better. I think that'll serve us all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e464	Let me accept the nice greeting I received from the representative and say thank you for it, now in this first line. The representative spent time on a troubled world and changes that happen around us. Then I want to come to a theme that was not in the throne. I think it's the first time in a while that the term "north regions" is not mentioned on the government's ambition list. Now we know that the northern regions are affected by the international climate, not because of something that has arisen in the north, but because the northern regions – as in the past – experience that when it is a colder international political climate, it also has consequences in the north. But I am surprised to see how the government, in the area by area, fails to follow up on the effort that was across the broad front – on knowledge, industry, culture and research in the north – and that the profile of the north, which was something Norway actively used in foreign policy and domestic policy, has then become attenuated to those degrees. How does the representative of Greece view the north as a political field and priority for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e475	It's very important that Gahr Støre takes up that theme – I think that's very important. Now it's a day or two until the budget comes, and I'm sure the representative Gahr Støre will experience that the government's Northern Territory bet will not only be continued, but will be strengthened from what the previous government has provided. We have faced a difficult diplomatic situation internationally because of Russia's aggression against Ukraine. But the government, with the full support of the Workers' Party and others, has also said that we want to pass people on to the people's cooperation. We want to continue the dialogue that goes beyond the borders of the North Callot. It's an important part of the Northern Territory bet. But with regard to the economic link to this investment, we will come back to it in the budget – naturally. But I just want to say that the possibilities and enormous resources of North Norway need to be exploited in a positive way for the whole country, and this government will.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e484	I'll warn you against making this a North Norway bet. The North Region bet is for the whole of Norway, where we're taking on what's happening in the north. But I want to ask a question back to that with the local economy. The representative was concerned that the small matters were important. Well, the small things are often the ones that are closest to where we live, and where we live, and very much of what the municipalities are responsible for, are small and big things in people's lives. The last time the Right was put with government power, there was great commitment to the cuts in the municipal economy around Norway in many municipalities. So far, we have seen that the municipalities believe that the financial structure announced by the government for 2015 is too desperate to meet the government's own expectations. We have also seen that the government would not fully compensate for the underfinancing as the demand for kindergartens turned out to be higher than what had been foreseen. So my question is now – even before the budget comes: Is it a general willingness to fund effectively the tasks of municipalities – what they are responsible for? And when you give them new problems, as we could read from the census, will it also be followed by new money?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e494	For many years, the right has been concerned that when new tasks are given to municipalities, they will also be financed. We have been concerned with a good and healthy municipal economy, while at the same time wanting to make demands on the municipalities – and not least on the state sector – to make them more efficient, to get more out of the money. I believe that the concern that is now building around the local economy will be answered on Wednesday. I think the government will show that the municipalities are the cornerstone of the welfare community; it's the municipalities that lay the foundation for the effort we can make in school, in health, in prevention and other things. That's why I don't think the representative Gahr Støre should worry so much. This government intends to contribute to Norwegian municipalities being able to produce the welfare services that we all agree on in this house, and then depends on having a good and healthy municipal economy, while at the same time making demands on the municipalities to deliver as much as possible for the money they receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e501	We see significant centralisation in several social areas in our country. The Christian People's Party is therefore committed to pursuing an active policy of creating activity in the districts. People make their own choices where they live, but we have to make sure that there are good services, a good business and action, so that people can live and stay in small places too. An active district policy involves a great deal, among other things. regional development funds, which are important for addressing challenges in district municipalities. Municipal food funds are important for both business and new businesses. Resources for Innovation Norway are another example of contributions to local and regional value creation. The representative mentioned in his statement that we should improve the welfare community, create more. The question to the Right's parliamentary leader is therefore: apart from tax laws, how does Right view the need for regional development funds and other district funds in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e508	I've had the pleasure of sitting on the Transport Committee for four years and then four years on the Municipal Committee. When I sat on the transport committee, there were many demonstrations outside this house. There were many who met us when we were traveling, and who demanded better roads, better infrastructure. It's the best district policy. Then I sat on the municipal committee. It was when I had to find out that I had not seen any demonstration trains for regional development funds. But I'd seen a lot of people wanting municipal nutrition funds, incubators, strengthening the local college environment, research environment, etc. I guess the conclusion is: we want to bet on infrastructure, that's our main bet. Then, of course, we will also focus on rural policy, but I do not think regional development funds are what is at the top of the priority list for local business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e517	Like the Christian People's Party, the Center Party is concerned about what part of the government's proposal will mean in terms of centralization in society. One of the most concrete things in the census is the question of structural changes — within the police, in the case of municipalities, in the case of higher education, attempts to publicise the care of the elderly, and also the fact that public hospitals should take the bill for so-called free treatment choices. Some of the structural changes are, of course, likely to increase red tape at the same time — increased state bureaucracy and increased government governance. This concerns the hearing bodies, inter alia: in the case of free hospital treatment choices. To what extent do the Right Concerns of the Hearing Officers share, and to what extent does a danger that some of the changes proposed may lead to increased state bureaucracy and State overmanagement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e524	The focus of our policies is the individual human being – that the individual in this country, whether you are a patient, whether you are a user, whether you are a student, etc., should have the best possible offer. That's the starting point for our policies, that's what we shape the policies around, and that's why we want to change and improve. Then, in many cases, we will have discussions. There are many reforms, which Marit Arnstad now lists, which have not yet been launched, or which have not yet been adopted. We're going to design this together in Stortinget, and I think it's within both municipal structures, state colleges, etc. is room for change and improvement. We want to move on with the reforms we have started, and we invite the Stortinget to cooperate to get this done. I would say that the previous government Right put in, decentralised considerably more when it pertained to state power, than what Marit Arnstad's own government did. Who was it that brought the directorate and other things out of Oslo? It wasn't the Center Party, it was the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e533	It is tempting to say that it was to a large extent well the Left who let the directors out of Oslo. I want to talk about the teacher's bet. To start with a little bit of bragging: the left is very happy that the government has now said that they should have a real teacher's lift. They've used the words of the Left and given it content. That's very good. However, if a profession is to be promised and respect for teachers' jobs in Norway is to be restored today, a broad range of measures is required. And what surprises me most about the Right in School Policy is that you're a lot of people to lift the teacher's job, and you've joined in on a lot of the measures that the Left has taken over the last eight years, but there's one thing you don't want to go into: cut the bureaucracy. So while Jan Tore Sanner is milling around the country and telling how much he's going to cut in the bureaucracy, how much simplification you're going to have and how much less the bureaucrats are going to have to deal with paper, the teachers are going to be left with the paper piles. Why won't the Right agree to cut the bureaucracy of the teachers as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e542	I like to share the honour of Trine Skei Grande about the decentralization under the Bondevik II government. We can accept responsibility for that together. As far as the scope of action in the field of teacher’s activity is concerned, we have now launched the Teacher Lift. A number of measures are being taken to improve the situation of teachers. And I'm really very happy that it seems to be a noble battle between the Left and the Right about which party is betting the most on the teacher. I am absolutely convinced that the Left too has a lot to contribute to that debate – I know that. Of course, we should not insist on bureaucratic arrangements for the part of bureaucratic arrangements. We're willing to look at changes that make everyday life easier for teachers. That's why it's so nice that we have a cooperation agreement, because then we can sit down and try to agree on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e549	The representative of Greece said that we should not suspect each other's motives and values. I fully agree with that. Then it is interesting to note that the government has notified cutbacks in the benefits of chronically ill people, without giving figures on how many more people are actually going to work on it. That's spectacular enough, I think. But in addition, the Right to Today's Business this weekend says that you expect a cut in the children's supplement to be disabled. Since Greece spoke so well about the everyday challenges, I would like to get an answer to this: If you are a child-career and are paralysed after a traffic accident, or have a serious Parkinson’s disease or multiple sclerosis – what research can Greece show that less money to go with to the clothes and equipment of the children, magically provides better health, less sickness and immediately increased working capacity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e556	The representative Serigstad Valen began in his line that we should not suspect each other's values and motives. I think that's exactly what the Serigstad Valen is doing in his line. He goes straight in and says that the Right will make it difficult for those who are sick, those who are disabled and that and that group. No, what we want is to get into a social policy that works, and that gives people the opportunity not to fall through the masks of the social security network. That is why I spent quite a lot of time on this in my post, and I therefore ask the representative to read that post and stop suspecting the motives and values of others. He can continue to do that, but we actually want to have real debates on how to make our welfare society work as best as possible, with one starting point: that we should take care of our fellow people and make life easier for them. Then we might have to do some grip, but all the Serigstad Vala now listed is not necessarily the policy we want to pursue, because he puts things on the verge and suspects the motives of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e561	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e564	The 159th big thing is open, and in this connection the government has, through its reading of the census, warned the Storting in a very good way about what the government is working on and aims to promote for the Storting in the time to come. These are things that should not come as a surprise to the representatives in this Chamber, as the government is governed by the political platform of the Right and Advance Party government. This is a platform that will apply to the four-year period in which we are now about one year after accession. Thus, some of the changes that are announced there will take a little longer than this one year that is now soon behind us. But the government has already delivered in a number of areas. It should not come as a surprise to the political environment that the Right-Fremskrit party government will do something about the discrimination that Norwegian companies and business owners are exposed to as opposed to foreign owners. What I am aiming for is, of course, the wealth tax. The government has started the phasing-out of this discriminatory tax in line with the government statement, but at the same time we have made sure that there is a reduction in personal taxation. The property tax is such that Norwegian owners come out worse than non-resident owners, which in fact causes a problem to be faced when setting up the company if you are a Norwegian owner. Furthermore, the government has abolished the very hated inheritance fee. This is also in line with what the government announced by its accession. In addition, this government has now put in place a legal system of user-led personal assistance, which is a system that is absolutely necessary to ensure people with severe and severe disabilities the ability to take control of their own lives and help themselves, so that they can participate in society as much as possible as in working life. The BPA scheme gives each individual greater control over their own day-to-day life and the management of the assistance to be provided. A number of reinforcements have been made in the hospital sector. Several hospitals are being built, and the police have been strengthened in their budgets. In addition, we are now finally embarking on a significant investment within the transport sector. The teachers have received a promise in terms of continuing training, and we are now able to transport more people who do not have a legal residence in Norway than the red-green government did in its time. The government delivers in the areas it has announced it will deliver, but what we've seen up to now is just the beginning of what you want to get. Through the census, the government announced a number of major reforms that are absolutely necessary to meet the future with a public sector equipped to meet future challenges with future solutions, not yesterday. We are still seeing the population's expectations of efficient and high-quality services increase as social development continues. It will not be possible to provide citizens with quality services that are in line with the expectations of the citizens of health and welfare services, child protection services, etc., with the municipal structure we now have with so many municipalities of varying size. In addition, we see that the emergence of a very large number of intercommunal companies, except for popular control, creates significant challenges. That is why the government has now set in motion the greatest effort to reform democracy and the region we have seen for many, many decades. In this context, the Progress Party will give credit to the government as to how it intends to implement the reform itself. This is primarily a reform that will look at the tasks to be assigned to the municipalities of the future and the responsibilities to be given, and not primarily to draw the municipal map itself. It is important to have municipalities on the team, and we already see that a number of municipalities have started a work where they look at the possibility of getting together with neighbouring municipalities. The government is gripping the major issues and reforms and will, in 2015, come to the Stortinget with the first part of the process regarding future tasks in this sector. Norway is a long-term country characterised by large distances and fjord crossings in some areas, while other areas see a significant continuation of settlement, with the challenges it poses in terms of population expectations and safety requirements for life and health. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that all the citizens of this country are confident that if the need for police assistance is present, this should be given within a reasonable period of time. We see today that there are great variations in the police coverage available, when we count this in the number of police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. It is an explicit objective that we should work for a police coverage of 2 officials per 1 000 inhabitants, while today we are down to 1 per 1 000 in some districts, as is the case for example. Look at Sunnmaere. If we are to be able to get more out of the resources that are already available, we need to think differently and organize ourselves in such a way that we get the most out of the operational staff and get them out where the population feels the need is greatest. We also need to spend less time on administrative tasks. This means that we need to find a more optimal model in terms of the number of districts and how to get the most police force back for the money we give in this room. This must be done in addition to strengthening police and judicial budgets in the coming years. Therefore, it is important that a good and thorough work has been done on the announced police reform that will be presented to the Stortinge in the near future. As I said, the government is delivering on the major and comprehensive reforms, so that citizens can feel secure for life and health. In this area, too, the government is demonstrating the effectiveness of action to ensure the safety of its citizens. If asked which areas they occupy the most, very many people will respond to health and care services. Being assured of help and treatment when one himself or one's closest needs is the very support of our welfare society. Norway is already spending a lot of resources on health, and many people are asking themselves if we're getting enough back for all the money we're using, or if we can manage to get more out of the dollars that are available. Surveys show that Norway does not use as much as countries we like to compare with, in terms of resources for specialist health services. But this does not mean that we do not need changes in organisation as well as more money for patient treatment. If we are to be able to reduce the long queues and thereby reduce the waiting lists that are in health care, it is important that we think new and alternatively. Therefore, the government has announced that you will be coming to Stortinget with a new health and hospital plan as early as next year. We have a lot of big and unsolved problems that we want to do something with. The government delivers in areas by area. Changes are being made both within the infrastructure to put in place a road transport company and to make a greater effort in the field of public transport. We come up with simplification and improvement measures to facilitate the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises, not least by spending less time on red tape and forms. We take the big tasks and the big reforms and we are happy to get started on the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e589	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e592	The fight against taxes and charges and the message that individuals must take greater responsibility for themselves are at the heart of the policy of the Progress Party. At the same time, the Progress Party has consistently rejected the need to choose between tax cuts and welfare, while in the real world we know that welfare cuts are the price of tax cuts. This year the government has granted between 8 and 9 billion. kr in tax cuts for those who already have the most. It's about twice as much as what's announced as growth in the free income of the municipalities to next year. The Finance Agency in Bergen, Liv Røssland from the Advance Party, has said about the municipality layout that these are messages that are very serious for the municipality of Bergen. All of a sudden, she's showing up at 150-180 million. kr less next year. For them, this is not pleasing. Then I wonder: What does the Progress Party think is most important to people when you have to choose – is it tax cuts for those who have the most from before, or is it money for kindergarten, school, health and care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e601	The government grants money to a number of different areas. Within an area where you have actually granted $1,100. NOK, there are many ways to spend the money. Growth-promoting tax havens are very important precisely in order to create more jobs and greater welfare development, which also benefits municipalities. The government will present its government budget on Wednesday. Then you're going to see that there's going to be a growth in the free income just for the municipalities. We're going to have a scheme in place that actually makes it possible to get the welfare development that we're going to have, and so the employee's representative will also see a government budget that meets the needs that are out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e608	That's what I thought was very promising. It must mean that the Progress Party and the Right have taken the signals from the municipalities during the summer that they have been very concerned about the municipal structure that was presented in our spring. Then I wonder if that means that the Progress Party has learned from the time they were a supporting party for the Bondevik II government and was the guarantor of prioritising tax cuts over municipal economy. Is this the experience from the time it is now included in the budget when it is presented on Wednesday?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e615	It is very important that several things can be done at once in a state budget. The size of the state budget opens up and provides an opportunity to do so. This government delivers in a number of areas where the previous government failed to deliver. While the previous government made sure that we got 270,000 people in a health queue, this government is working to reduce the queue, so that we can get people back to work faster, which in turn leads to increased tax revenues that we can use, among other things. on welfare schemes. We also make changes. Among other things, we have removed the inheritance tax, a tax that was very important to get rid of, because it is an unfair taxing of persons who were not wanted to continue. It might have been interesting to know if the Workers' Party in its time is going to reintroduce this fee, which I actually don't think they're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e626	The Progress Party wants to shift the financial responsibility for the care of the elderly from the municipalities to the state, so that the older caregivers, who were engaged in good services, do not get hurt because of poor local economy or perhaps even, for some, wrong priorities. Is it not better to ensure that municipalities actually get such a good community economy that they can offer their own elderly people a decent care, and ensure that there are statutory rights that municipalities have to follow up to get the money they are talking about, and to ensure the care of the elderly, instead of moving the money over to the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e631	One of the things in the government statement is to look at the possibility of putting in place a statutory right to a nursing home in the care of the elderly. But the problem in Norway today is that there are 428 municipalities. That is, there are huge variations between municipalities. Then my big question is this: is it going to be the municipal boundaries that still determine whether you get the different services or not, or should it be the way to make sure that the needs of the individual are decisive? That is why we are looking at different models, and now we are going to start a test scheme where we look at a government commitment on the financing side. It is not a matter of the State taking responsibility for the care of the elderly. It is the financial responsibility that needs to be taken over. A test system will be considered before any final conclusion is reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e636	We are in a time of great uncertainty in Europe. This leads to a need for preparedness. The Progress Party and the Centre Party have traditionally had many conflicting views on preparedness. This also applies in the context of food cereal preparedness, where both the national meeting of the Progress Party and the Central Party have decided that they will reintroduce a food grain stock. In connection with the debate on OL in Oslo 2022, the representative Nesvik said the following to today's industry on 27 September: ‘No government councils are approaching a national meeting. It's that simple." In any case, Nesvik answers: ‘Yes, no government councils oppose a national meeting decision.’ Can the representative of Nesvik confirm that this also applies to the question of food storage?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e653	The party of progress has been fixed in all its organs in the party that it is the government declaration that is established here, and we stand for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e658	In the cooperation agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, the Progress Party has committed itself to a sober oil money usage, well within the framework of the rule of action. In 2014, it means 2.8 pst. exploitation of the oil fund, well below the 4 pst limit. Nevertheless, it represents a new world record in oil money use – in dollars and cents. The size of the fund means that today's 3 pst.-limit means a monthly space of action greater than 4 pst.-limit only a few years ago. The Norwegian economy doesn't tolerate our going beyond 3 pst. It will also be directly unsolvable with future generations to fall for such a easily solved solution. The Nesvik and leaker entries from the State budget indicate that the Progress Party has made such a comment, and that the action rule can be lowered to 3 pst for all practical purposes, as left will. But I'm a little confused about what's going on. My second-in-law colleague Sandberg spoke this summer. What does the Progress Party really mean about the rule of action and the practice of him? Is the Progress Party merged with the Left in at 3 pst. [[President clubs]] is a much more natural limit than 4 pst. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e668	Representative Harald T. Nesvik – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e671	The Progress Party is very concerned that we should have a sensible and good use of oil money in the Norwegian economy – ensuring that competitiveness is maintained and that Norwegian industry is also able to sell its products on the export market. That is why we are going to have an oil money use that is exactly in line with what you might be able to get into the Norwegian economy – in a real and sustainable way. On Wednesday, the State budget is presented. I am absolutely sure that the representative Breivik is going to make up an opinion after that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e678	One of the areas in the mainstream and in government policy that the Greens are looking at with great interest is the increased emphasis on the development of new jobs in business other than in the oil sector. We also take an interest in saying that, while stressing that climate change must be the framework for other policies. And the most tangible thing the government has said so far in terms of climate policy is the frequent repeated promise of a strengthening of climate reconciliation. Then the question is, can Nesvik now light up a little bit on the veil and tell us what this reinforcement will mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e685	Now I think we should wait for the Minister of Finance to present the State budget. I don't think it's right that the undersigned should start looking around it, because I don't know the whole content of it either, so I think we should wait until Wednesday. But already in the year we've been behind, we've seen a number of measures. A significant increase in the climate fund has been announced in the coming years. There has also been an investment in forestry, which has just been notified by the government. In addition, this government has invested significantly more money in the railway operation than did the previous government. So we have a series of measures that are very important to capture, so we take these challenges seriously, and that's what the government will do. The climate agreement will be reinforced by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e690	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e693	There's always a height point with a debate on the throne. Experience says that one year after we got a new government, some of those who were a little negative in the past have become a little more positive, and those who were very positive in the past may have become a little more negative. But I wanted to raise my perspective by referring to a letter written by two munitions named Kristin and Erik Bøhler. They're munitions in Nepal, and they wrote a letter to their neighbors in Nepal to tell about Norway. Because of the existence of such a country, the neighbors in Nepal could hardly believe. «Dear neighbours in Nepal Now that the cease-fire between the Maoists and the authorities is over, so the violence in the country is increasing and hopelessness is spreading again, we will tell you about another country we know: there is a country where they have electricity. Not just occasionally, and maybe enough for the bulbs, like in the cities here in Nepal. No, you can turn the power on whenever you want! There's so much of it that ordinary people use it for heating and cooking. And they have houses that are so dense that it's warmer out than inside. It can get so hot inside that they have to take off the jersey, even if it's freezing out. That's right! Common people who have enough food. Every day. And everyone buys money, they don't trade, for example. vegetables against rice, or work against food. Many of the families that even have food left over. It's often thrown, because they don't know where to put it. No, they can't eat everything by themselves. Yeah, it's long yours. There has been peace in that country since we were born, even as old as we are. You almost never see cops or soldiers with guns. Not even when it's a choice, it's a curfew or soldiers with guns in the streets. Going to the polling room is completely harmless, and can even be nice, even if one hits someone who votes on other parties. It costs nothing to be hospitalized. The treatment is also free, even if you do not know anyone who works there. And if someone who has a job gets sick, she gets sick pay, almost as much as normal pay. And she has the right to come back in the same job when she is healthy again! Best of all, people have ‘rights’. Ordinary people out in the country that has it. And they even get training in what they have the right. All the children have the right to go to school for free. It also applies to those who do not know who the father is. Because in that country all birth certificates and citizenship are obtained, even if the parents are not married. Yeah, it's different than here in Nepal. But that's good for those kids. No, this was about a country here on earth. Yeah, it's long yours. Very long. And then they've closed the boundaries, so people from the outside can't move in. And there are many problems there too, say people who live there. And they're probably right about that. But it might be good to think that there is such a country." I think there are three things this letter says something clear about. The only thing is, the huge differences we have in the world, and how unfair the world is. The second is: how much we have achieved in our own country, but that we have challenges at the same time. There are also problems in our own country that we are forced to grips with. The third is so clear: we're part of the world. If there's something that's been clearly shown to us in the last few months, it's how the world outside Norway is touching us too. I'm thinking about the crisis in Ukraine. We who grew up under him, thought that the cold war was over. What me no sees in Ukraine may be the beginning of a new cold war. We experience a Putin running a clearer and more aggressive rhetoric, which at the same time is more popular than ever in his own country. The Ukraine crisis, I believe, is something that needs to be resolved and that he needs a political solution. A military solution with Russia on the one hand and the United States and the EU on the other does not seem realistic. Now we also see problems in the Middle East with ISIL, with a barbaric behaviour. I don't think we've experienced worse things since the Second World War, and we see the need to get new solutions. The UN says that the world hasn't had a major refugee dream in 70 years. There are four major international disasters: in Iraq, in Syria, in South Sudan and in the Central African Republic. Especially the last two are often forgotten in our close media. So we have the ebola epidemic, which the government today has to come up with around measures. In fact, there is a terrible situation for people that becomes the framework, but it is also a clear symbol and a warning light for the evil of infrastructure, governance, education and health in some countries. This shows why it is so important for the Christian People's Party with development and aid efforts. Before the elections it was said that a blue-blue government would mean powerful relief shots. After the election, we both received an additional aid frame for 2013 and renegotiated the year's aid budget to 1 pst. of GNI. With the key position of the Christian People's Party in Stortinget, we will achieve the 1 pst goal through the ageing period. The value creation in Norway is largely carried out in District Norway. At that time, it is decisive that trade and the means of food development are growing below the existing environment and are stimulating precisely these. We also have an urbanization that is clear in Norway. We see that Oslo is the capital of Europe that grows most. Stavanger grows even more than Oslo. People in Norway move for different reasons to the more urban areas. It is then important that we do not adopt an economic policy that reinforces its impact further. Yes, the Christian People's Party would like to increase the scope of the T-Bahn in Oslo, but we do not agree that it should increase at the cost of ferry services or boat services in the Nordic countries or Sogn and Fjordane, in order to use two states that can be just an example of being vulnerable when this is the case. When we look now at the community reform and police reform, it is very important that we see the district policy part of the two important reforms. The new leader of the labor party, Jonas Gahr Støre, is brave when he asks the questions as he does. He says: «If we are to be a party in time, we must listen to the families and understand what they are in. And then it is not certain that what we have meant in previous decades is quite right for the coming decades." I think these are very welcome words. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the new leader of the Labour Party is open, thinking new and wants to be the future of family policy. It is good for Norwegian families that politicians understand the challenges that family members face and that family members are different. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has great faith in cash support as an instrument of family policy. It gives the family a lingering mole in the transition between parental leave and kindergarten start. 6000 kroner may not be all the world, but for some, it's enough for them to experience that they actually have an alternative to the A4 scheme, the A4 scheme, which is to tame the birth of July-August, kindergarten start of the one-year-old and 37.5 hours of work week for both of them. But most families also want kindergarten because they see that kindergartens give their children a good deal. It is not just the children who are important. For the Christian People's Party, the older ones are important. That is why we are presenting the guarantee of the dignity of the elderly. We will never be satisfied with the follow-up to that guarantee. We also registered with disappointment that 12,000 places that were promised by the previous government became 567 hospitals. The Christian People's Party got together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left through the fact that we're now going to get a rights fixation for introduction into the period. As stated in the agreement, the statutory right to the day-to-day care is paid for for the introduction of this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e741	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e744	I would like to thank the representative Hareide for a point of view, which shows in the same way as the last post before the elections, that aid for the poor of the world is the Christian People's Party's most important thing. Then we agree – and that is also the majority in this Chamber – on a level of propriety of 1 pst. Hareide has previously supported settlements on fiscal and rail policies, climate and pension settlements. That is why I wonder why the Hareides Party does not want to join an aid settlement that ensures what there is a majority for in this Chamber, namely 1 pst. for assistance. The right parliamentary leader just said that the Storting had gained more power during this period. So why don't you join in creating a majority for what's the most important thing for the Christian People's Party:1 pst. To the poorest of the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e753	I have registered with pleasure the clear invitation that has come from Huitfeldt's representative for a settlement of about 1 pst. in assistance. What's still the big paradox is that that invitation comes ten months after a co-conspirator's hoarding voted for 1 pst. of GNI to the poor of the world. I'm still glad that the invitation has arrived. But we have an agreement with the government that says that in budgetary matters we should negotiate with the government first. I experienced that the Right Party and the Advance Party met very well with the Christian People's Party when we took it up during last year's budget negotiations. And because just 1 pst. by GNI, first of all, is a budgetary issue, and I will be clear when it comes to the agreement that I am obliged to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e760	Does that mean that it will not be possible for the Christian People's Party and the Left to join any majority in this Chamber without the support of the Right and Advance Party? Then it means that the parliamentary leader from the Right is in no way entitled to have more power in this Chamber – if the situation on the Grand Duchy is to be that in all matters that have budgetary implications, the Christian People's Party and the Left must always receive support from the Right and the Advance Party first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e765	The Left Party and the Christian People's Party are free to choose which alliance we want to enter. I can use two examples from the last few months: in Utsira-saka we had a clear dialogue with the Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Environment Party Dei Green. We succeeded in taking it one step closer to our policy, which we were very pleased with. The party of progress and the right finally joined in. In the issue of quota refugees – when we asked the government to come back to the question – there was a plural decision, in which the Labour Party and the other parties in addition to the government parties were present. My point when it comes to the percentage of aid is that it is primarily a budgetary issue. In those questions, I will first turn to the government party and find out what solutions we can get with them. We did that last year, and we got a very good solution, for which the Christian People's Party is very happy. We're also very happy that the whole Big One ended up about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e773	The Christian People's Party is part of the parliamentary basis of the government, which both obligates and provides opportunities. The Christian People's Party defines itself as a centre party and has the order that they are the guarantor of the districts with the government we now have. Then we see that the blue-blue government still announces extensive structural reforms and determines that large units are the solution. Police and fire services are important for people throughout the country to be safe. I would like to know what problem the representative Hareide sees in the alert police reform. Does he believe that it is possible to agree with the government party on the matter, in order to still be able to say that the Christian People's Party is the guarantor of the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e780	I think it's important to be aware of what Klinge's representative is saying: that when we have major reforms, we have to look at the regional profile around them. We have a clear consciousness around it. And as I also said, I think it's a big challenge when we see that we have a natural urbanization in our society. We should not, from Stortinget's side, add up to strengthen it. We can also look at structural reforms that have had a positive impact on the districts. I mean that, for example. The conversion we have had around the post office, as we move mail from our own post office to the store, means that I have a better postal service when I am home at Bømlo than what I have when I live in Oslo – most of my time. There's a bad opening time. So we also have to look at what possibilities change can be with and give. But I agree with the representative of Klinge here. We are forced to have a consciousness of regional challenges in connection with the kind of reforms that now have to come and that we know will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e789	The representative Hareide reminds us of how privileged we really are, who gets to live in this country. Nevertheless, we also have some challenges here to make sure that everyone has the same opportunities. In particular, school policy is important in order to achieve this. In recent months, the Christian People's Party has held the tab rather high when it comes to getting fewer students per teacher. It is difficult to disagree that good relations for teachers are important. In the Left, we've focused on getting more professionals, and we've focused on reducing bureaucracy, because one of the challenges of having fewer students per teacher is that we don't have those teachers. We have 9 000 today, which is so-called non-qualified, and we know that we are going to lack 11,000 teachers in 2020. So my question to the representative is, what concrete action will the Christian People's Party take to get these teachers into school? Or is it not so important that there are qualified teachers — keeping it up with adult caregivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e796	We know that today we have a reserve of 30,000 teachers who could have worked in school, but who don't. It comes from the fact that teachers are skilled people who are attractive to other groups. But I also think there are some people who have worked as a teacher, who have thought that "I can't do this anymore, I feel that it's one for demanding situations," and have chosen to look for other possibilities outside the school. I think the proposal of the Christian People's Party is going to make many of the kind of skilled teachers think that 'now it's better to work in school, and then I want to go back to school'. I think we'll be able to pick up some of that backup power. I agree with the representative from Nybø here: It is important for well-trained teachers. But I also think that the teachers are very concerned about whether they can get more teachers in the classroom, not least in the early days, and we've also seen that the teachers themselves have described this proposal as excellent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e805	SV and the Christian People's Party share an commitment to better treatment of asylum-seekers. Last year, approx. at this time, Hareide triumphed in the hiking hall over the impact he had received in the asylum policy with the government and the Left in the cooperation agreement. Today we see the fasit of it: on Friday, 484 asylum seekers were released from the country, which is 162 more than the red-green government sent out in the same period of time. This has led the bishop of South Hålogaland, Tor B. Jørgensen, to ask Hareide to apologize to the children of asylum. That reaction can be understood, but the Christian People's Party and SV are certainly the most concerned not to apologize, but to get concrete action. My question to the representative Hareide is therefore: will the Christian People's Party support the government if there are no significant changes in asylum policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e810	This is a very important matter for SV, as I understand it, and it has been for many years also for the Christian People's Party. We're busy getting a real and permanent change. We have in the agreement with the government that the best of children should count more strongly. Now the government is working on it. It's a significant outrage, I think, both in the Left Party and in the Christian People's Party on this issue, and we're not happy with the situation we're seeing today either. So we have an agreement that there should be liberalisation. The best thing for children is to count more, and I'll share the representative's eagerness after this has to happen. I would also like to remind you that the legislation that the government is following today is the legislation of the previous government, but we fully share that something has to happen here, and it is urgent that something happens. I also think that the numbers that have been uncovered in the last few days show that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e817	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Hareide, for a good reminder of the welfare society that we are to be very grateful for and hold back, and not least for providing it as a basis for an aid policy initiative supported by the Greens. But then Hareide says something else that's very interesting, and that's that he also wants to support, for example. T-Bahn tunnel in Oslo, but not at the expense of ferry operations in the West. It may be a very important and difficult choice situation, but does the representative not agree that this is also an illustration of a problem that even the welfare society of Norway is increasingly facing, namely that we are waiting not to make real choices in a situation where making real course choices and taking a cost by making those course choices is actually necessary for the job that this society and this room will take on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e824	It's an appropriate indication from the party leader of the Green Party, Rasmus Hansson. I mean that the Christian People's Party makes significant choices when we say it's not the time for the big tax cuts now. Then we make a clear selection of priorities. I think we're both a few that we're forced to get a bigger stake in public transport around the big cities, but I think if we take away what's infrastructure in District Norway, we get an even stronger urbanization than what we already see today. That's not what I'm willing to do, either because part of the value creation that we can use right at the Oslo T-Bahn bet is happening in the districts. I think it is important that we see that health, but it is clear that we are in an unusually privileged situation, but that is politicians on the Stortinget, versus all the other parliaments in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e829	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e832	In particular, the paper refers to three areas that we await with interest from the government. One is the issue of industrial policy and value creation, and the government budget presented on Wednesday will give us a hint at the ambitions in that area. As for the international part of the throne, it is dominated by the mention of climate issues, but it happens on such a general basis that it may be difficult for anyone in this room to disagree with what the government here says. The test in the climate field, for the government's part, is probably coming later than today. On the other hand, in the third area, which concerns the so-called renewal of the public sector, the reference is much more concrete. There is no doubt here that the government is planning major changes. It is easy to agree that a transformation and a renewal of the public sector is important. This has to be based on the best of what we carry with us, and it's proximity, participation, trust and real opportunity to influence. In Norway, decentralised management has contributed to political, social and geographical cohesion. It has given a short route from the individual to the decision-makers. It has, in turn, helped many to participate and take responsibility for both their own lives and society around them. It ran me in memory a quote from an article recently, saying the following: ‘ Often the answer is to change structures. [[...]] Why do leaders, and in this context, choose policy leaders, so often structural solutions to complex challenges?’ It was a timely question from Professor at the Market College, Tom Karp, and it probably serves as a good illustration of an eagerness of government for simple and easy results through structural changes, whether in municipalities, police, hospitals or colleges. Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, chairman of the Transport Committee, said in an interview earlier this year: We will squeeze so much toothpaste out of the tube that it will be impossible to put it back. I think maybe that's the goal. The renewal of the public sector is, in the government's view, about implementing structural changes which, in sum, will involve a centralisation that cannot be reversed. In other words, we are facing a time when community, trust and popular governance will be broken against market interests and a desire for large units. There's reason to be concerned about what's being warned in the throne. The result will be a greater distance between citizens and decision-makers, between patients and hospitals, between police and residents, or between customers and suppliers, if that is the way it is. The distance between the individual and the authorities is increasing, and each of us will be given less visibility and less opportunity to influence. The centre party believes that it is time to see different proposals for structural changes in the context, because the reforms have one thing in common: they centralise power, and they pulverise responsibility. They reduce proximity, and they weaken local security and preparedness. They are based on myths of perceived economies of scale, which are rarely rooted in facts, and they will help to create new, state-owned bureaucracy and more state-level detailed governance. I have to be allowed to illustrate it by an example from my own home country: when there was a fire in Flatanger last winter, the fire was extinguished, and people were evacuated within an hour, after a quick effort from the local fire department. In the evaluation that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, has done in retrospect, the fact was overlooked in silence. The DSB was concerned that the reporting routines were not good enough and used the fire as an argument for what is their big agenda, namely centralising the fire service. It is also not nice that Flatanger's municipality in its hearing opinion slaughters DSB's evaluation. Flatanger points out that short-haul responsibilities and short-haul authority, rapid decisions and local knowledge were essential for preparedness. They correctly state that DSB has used a trending range of information to carry out the evaluation. In the police, it's the same way. Large units are supposed to make the police more operational, and the police use the July 22 report as a witness of truth to tell something it doesn't say at all. It doesn't say that a centralised police force is going to be a better police force. It points to the need for better management. Nevertheless, the police analysis proposal is that one should centralise both police districts and officers' offices in a way that we have not seen here in Norway in the past. Norwegian municipalities are also too small for the government. It does not help to show that residents in small municipalities are the most satisfied with municipal services. In Denmark, to which the government often refers, a large-scale municipalisation has been carried out. They now have 99 municipalities on an area equal to the drainage systems. By comparison, the trounds have 48 municipalities. The centre party has nothing against the merger when the inhabitants of the municipalities want to do so. We've had a lot of voluntary community mergers in recent years, but we're going to oppose coercion. It will not give the futility and respect needed in this type of merger. It is the local population who have to decide whether or not to merge their municipalities. In this respect, we must dare to ask the local population through local referendums. The centre party wants changes in the public sector. In the years ahead, it becomes very important to provide less government bureaucracy, fewer measurement and reporting requirements, less detailed management, less designation and less over-management in the form of over-reliance directorates and counties. However, when hospital merger studies in England say that the number of administrative staff was not reduced but rather increased, and when figures from the Statistical Centre show the same trend here in Norway, it is time for us all to think about. Therefore, the government should listen to those who say at the hearing on so-called free treatment options that this will only mean increasing health bureaucracy. Systems must never become more important than people, and reporting itself must never become more important than action. It's more important that people are quickly evacuated from a fire than how you report to a government directorate. It is more important that emergency situations are able to give rapid messages between them than the size of the units. It is more important that older people actually get a place in a nursing home than how many middle managers the municipality has got. In other words, we have to stop looking blindly at size and rather review with a critical look how the problems are done. The most pressing challenge for anyone who is concerned about the ability of public administrations to provide good services to citizens is not size – it is a state bureaucracy that can take over. Here we have a political challenge in front of us of a completely different character than the centralization that this government announced through the throne that it is going to come along with. I believe that renewal and so-called modernisation of the public sector will be a major and important political debate in the future. It is a debate in which important interests will be broken. The Central Party believes in freedom. We believe in the ability of the individual to influence. Good communities and decentralisation are the answer — not a centralisation of tasks and services and more state bureaucracy. With that I will be allowed to raise proposal No. One from the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e890	The representative has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e896	I am pleased that we now have a broad political consensus in Stortinget that we should carry out a community reform. This reform is about ensuring good services for citizens now and in the future. Locally, a number of Central Party politicians have expressed a desire for reform. Erik Seem, former rapporteur in Grong, has said to Mr Trønder-Avisa that they are concerned about the tammals and Namdalen, and that they see that there are some challenges that are not so awfully pleasant. ‘If we’re really honest, I don’t think we’ll be able to provide the evaluations they deserve,” said Seem. In June this year, the rapporteur of the centre party in Andebu, Vestfold, said on the whole of the first page of Tønsberg's Blade that local democracy is stronger with a merger, and proposes more mergers in Westfold. In contrast, the Central Party in Stortinget has played a role as a brake pad for the reform. My question is this: what have the Central Party summits here in Stortinget understood as they believe their own local politicians have not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e903	There is, after all, no broad political consensus in the Stortinget on the merger of municipalities – not at all. That was the extent to which the boat was carried in the spring when the government almost had to press the Christian People's Party and the Left in place to get a majority to oblige the municipalities to conduct investigations into the merger. There is no majority, as far as I can see, for coercion, as the government has wanted, and there is no majority to remove the county council, as the Right and the Progress Party have also wanted. What the government has now proposed is that one should order municipalities to unravel aggregation. Many of the municipalities do. They're investigating the merger process. It doesn't necessarily mean that they come to the conclusion that they want to merge. But they're conducting that investigation because they're charged with it, and they're also going to decide on the outcome when that time comes. What is crucial for the Central Party is that local communities are allowed to settle these issues by sea, decide on the issue of community reunification through a local referendum, and we hope that the Liberation Parties Right and the Advance Party will agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e908	It's exciting to hear what's the Central Party's message in the debate on the throne. It's been one year since the Central Party went out of government, and I realize that the fight against mergers and reorganisation in the local community sector becomes the big big issue for the Center Party. Then we'll see if they'll have an influence on that case. But that's really what's my starting point and what I'm asking about, because it's about this with influence. I found at the beginning of the meeting today that the Centre Party was particularly active in promoting a number of representative proposals, and it is very exciting to see that in a number of areas the Centre Party is now beginning to distance itself more and more from the former partners of the government, and in a number of areas the Centre Party is probably also getting an impact. We've seen it in a smaller case, maybe, about motor travel in the field. We've seen that they have the opportunity to get through the national transport plan, maybe, where we overfill, and where the centre party has always been concerned with significant increases. But is it so that we can see that there are no red-green blocks anymore, since the center part chooses the path they now choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e917	It is nice that the Progress Party is concerned that the Central Party is raising the debate on these structural changes and the centralisation that is taking place in a number of areas – not only in the municipalities, but also in the police and in other emergency services. And for my part, it is completely incomprehensible that the Progress Party, which claims to be sceptical about state bureaucracy, can participate in proposals that will lead to a much greater degree of both state bureaucracy and state detail management. With regard to the parliamentary situation, we have a parliamentary situation in which we have a minority government – it is not the Norwegian big business that is unknown – and that means that the government must actively seek a majority in the Grand Duchy on a case-by-case basis. The centre party disagrees with the government in a number of cases, and then we agree with the government in some cases, and in those matters where we agree with the government, we should be able to contribute to a reasonable majority on matters. We have tried to deal with predatory policies, because both the Right Party and the Central Party promised a new policy on predators before the elections, but we note that it is not possible to bring either the Right Party or the Advance Party to fulfil any of the promises they made before the elections in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e924	Around many of the communities that the Centre Party and SV care about, school desks and kindergartens are now empty. There has been an offensive now to throw out the long-term asylum children. Many of them have been here for many years and are just as Norwegian as my grandchildren. SV has tried to put these matters to rest because there is a one-off solution that can give a few more possibilities to stay. When these families are thrown out of the country, as they are now, they have no real chance of running such a case. Therefore, SV has again today submitted a proposal to put matters at risk. Will the Central Party now support this proposal, so that those who have been here for a long time may have an opportunity at least to apply?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e931	We are going to consider the proposal that SV has presented here today. I agree with Andersen and SV that this is an important issue and that there is a need for a change in this area. Like the Christian People's Party and the representative Hareide, the Center Party also believes that the best interests of the child should count more strongly in these matters than it has done. We are probably in the process of seeing a change not only on the question of staying for those who have already come to Norway, but also on the question of accepting more refugees when the UN asks us to do so, for example. from Syria. This is an important topic that the Center Party will look at. This also applies to SV’s proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e940	I registered that the Center Party was engaged in the fight against state bureaucracy and detailed management. It was some of the mantra that went back in connection with the municipal reform. It's often that when the Center Party talks about power downwards, it's power to the municipalities, while when the Advance Party and the Right Government talk about power downwards, it's to the individual citizen. It's very good if the Center Party can be with the government in the fight against state bureaucracy and detail management. This is why the government has started a series of reforms after the first year of government. I can mention what you're doing with the customs office, I can mention what you're doing with the tax office and the local chemical offices. You try to get less bureaucracy and less detailed management around this. Is it true that the Central Party will be with the government on this kind of reform? Or is it the way I fear that you're going to be against any reform, and you're going to fight for it? What a tremendous reform the Centre Party started, for example. put in the Ministry of Local Affairs, to ensure that the individual was given more power at the expense of the state bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e945	The party of progress suffers from the delusion that only things are done stately, there will be less bureaucracy of it. But that's not how it is. One of the most alarming things in today's society is that it is the state bureaucracy that is increasing, especially the Directorates. We can all take part in the responsibility for that development, but there is no argument to escalate such a development. The need to centralise key agencies in society, centralize the police, centralize the fire service, centralize the 110 centres is no argument to state the tax rate when you want to have less bureaucracy. I think the Progress Party has simply misunderstood a bit of the perception of the relationship between local government and government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e950	In my party, we are concerned that the individual should be able to make more decisions directly. With e.g. the government has now announced that it will increase the possibility of digitised applications, etc. In the municipal sector, – rather than having to go to a town hall and talk to a bureaucrat in the municipality – one can sit and complete the application and receive answers electronically. It will be a huge reform and a very good initiative by the government. Back to my question instead: What did the Senter party do when they sat in government? I note that several major directorates were set up. I note that there was no cut in budget lines related to any of the Directorates of State Administration. So you kept going the way it was. Many of the reforms that the Central Party is now talking about were already under way when the Central Party was in power. I understand that it is bad to be held responsible for what you have done yourself – you would like to talk about red tape and removing detail management. At least this government is doing something. I hope that the Central Party, together with this government, will help to work out this work and ensure that the citizens have more power, at the expense of the municipality and state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e957	That's the problem: this government does nothing in that direction. It does nothing for its citizens in terms of simplification. Some IT solutions – some data solutions – can certainly be found, but the great grips that have been announced in the census, such as police reform, as a community merger, are measures that will simply be centralising and that will also make it possible for them to contribute to increased reporting, increased measurement requirements and increased bureaucracy in the state sector. In the case of free choice of treatment, e.g., as the government says they will introduce, the hearing opinions show a massive demand from the hearing bodies to side with it, precisely because it means increased bureaucracy. Anne Beth Moslet in the health queue.no says that this is only going to be more heavy for users and lead to more state bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e964	Since no one else has asked for the floor for a reply, the representative, Mr Leirstein, also receives the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e968	We stay here, it's nice. It is that the last time I checked, not all the details about this with free treatment choice were fully in place. But once again, there is a reform in which individual patients will be given the opportunity to choose, rather than sit and be commended, what the bureaucracy of the individual health care provider can do. It will be a good reform for each individual citizen. To the fear that there will be a centralisation reform in the police: a significant number of government offices have been closed down in recent years – even when the Central Party was in the government offices. I don't think most people feel that it's become much more accessible. What this government is trying to do is actually phase in, among other things. ICT solutions, which, for the vast majority of Norwegian people, allow some of us to come into contact with, among other things. police and others when we want to report things or get in touch with the different agencies. I note that the Center Party wants that development, but that you did not do much when you put your own power – and that may be how it often is – but this government is going to deliver and, fortunately, has three years left to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e979	The Central Party believes that we should think completely new about the issue of public sector renewal and, in relation to these simple answers, that structural change all the time is what should give a powerful Council of State: put that idea away, because it itself has both a centralisation and a bureaucracy of society – think differently! And as far as police reform is concerned, obviously there has been an adjustment of the LEN's offices years earlier, but in connection with the first police reform, it went from 54 to 27 police districts. Now we're going down to six, we're going to remove 144 canal offices, and we've never experienced similar centralization in Norway's history in emergency services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e984	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e987	I've always seemed to have been special. When I was little, I thought that the harvest holiday had actually been added about now, because all the children could then sit at home and watch the throne debate on TV. Now I have grown up and realized that this is not the reason for having a harvest holiday. Much is not exactly as it was when I was little. When I was little – 1986 – Kåre Willoch’s government went, first because they had to make a crisis package because the oil price had dropped from 29 to 15 dollars the barrel. But they had to increase the price of petrol. This was not acceptable to the Progress Party, so they cast the bourgeois government. Now the Progress Party is entering into a bourgeois government, now the diesel price is increasing, because they must have an agreement with the Left because the climate is so important. That was not the climate that caused Kåre Willoch to increase the gas price. There was money inside the state treasury. The reason why prices differ today is climate challenges. The climate is one of the greatest challenges facing us as a planet, and then we have to be willing to use the market mechanisms to reach them. In order to generate green growth, to bet on public transport and to get a green business, we need to be willing to use the green tax shift as well. The languages of the throne are important documents. I think we sometimes have good things to do by putting them next to each other and seeing how it also describes political communication. The nobility that today's prime minister gave the King here a few days ago is perhaps the more political speech we've seen in a very long time. The government should have boasted about that, because then we know what background we're discussing. But we've sat down, looked a little bit years back and compared the censuses, for example. in the case of climate. In the first speech of Stoltenberg, in 2006, there was no climate, environment or anything in the area mentioned in one word. In 2007 and 2008, reference was made to the importance of having international agreements. Otherwise, climate policy was not mentioned. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, it was talked about the importance of investing in renewable energy. In 2011, a shift took place, as the climate became a challenge. But there was still much longer time in the throne to be concrete in the field of oil policy. In 2012, climate change adaptation continued, while oil and gas continued to be much more important. In 2013, when one has lost due to climate policy, it is announced that one should follow the climate agreement, even though one knows that the majority of the Stortinget had agreed to strengthen the climate agreement. But still the most policy was about oil. That means that we in the Left are happy that we finally have an offensive throne speech – after eight years in climate/environment – that says how important it is and that says something about the policy in this area. But our challenge to the Prime Minister is that it is not just the fine words and wording that are needed. When the budget comes, we really need a huge impact on climate policy to get to that shift that we know we need. Nor do we think it is good for the Prime Minister to talk down on the objectives. The goals we've set ourselves are difficult. But people -- when you have some difficult goals, you don't lean back and say they're hard, you lean forward and try extra hard to do and reach them. Our climate policy does not have time to wait – it does not have time to wait for one or the other of organisational measures. We need to convert Norway today. I have said many times from this pulpit that many bold choices have been made in this Chamber – bold and courageous choices that have led Norway further, and that have dared to take us also over the steps that perhaps many thought we were never going to make. Now we are doing well – as Knut Arild Hareide described it in the letter to the neighbors in Nepal. But sail when we're good, brave politicians are needed. Sick when Norway has advanced, politicians who are willing to make the courageous choices for the future and who are willing to participate in that transition are needed. That is why we may need more than long-term policies, the need for a political throne, the need for long-term policies and the courage to look in the long term, while at the same time being able to put people first. That's why we need a green growth in a green business policy that is involved and developing the business we're going to live on from in the future. That's why it's so important to focus on knowledge and research. It's actually no problem that engineers end up in the oil industry to start in the other industries. That's part of the transition we actually have to go through. Now we have a mainland Norway that's been screaming for engineers. Now there are some engineers available. It's actually just to lift them into the industries that we know we're going to live off in the future. It is important to get at this bet for the nation, because that conversion is the key to success. That's why the teacher's effort is also so important, and getting into a research plan. Deepest, it's about a completely different sentence that's in the cooperation agreement, and that for me is very important: repatriating respect for knowledge in a society. There are so many times in debates here in the main hall that it has been dimmed in terms of research or professionals. Repatriation of respect for knowledge is an important key to making the most of the courageous, large-scale transitions that Norway will undergo in the coming years. It's about respect for the individual human being; it's about putting people first. The reason why it is so important for the Left to fight poverty, especially among children, is also about the release of children, the release of the possibility of developing the potential of each child's own seas. But then we need someone to take some courageous action to reach exactly those who have the worst, to give them that freedom, to give them the opportunities. When Audun Lightbakken says on the radio today that it's unfair that most people have to pay for the poor children, it's something I disagree with. I'm in favour of redistribution. I'm because we, who are well, can contribute a little more so that those who are poor can get much better. The world is facing major challenges, not just in the climate. But we must understand all the underlying conflicts that lie there. We need to understand that poverty – including poverty in Norway – is involved in creating extremism, is part of the basis for the conflicts we see around the world. We need to understand that our relativism on human rights is helping to form the basis for many of the conflicts we see. We need to understand that the climate challenges we face lead to poverty and redistribution in the world society in a way that also creates conflicts. Then we will address the major conflicts – the major refugee disasters we are now facing – but we must not just solve them, we must also look at the basis of those conflicts and fight against them. Today, two professors from the University of Oslo, one of my old professors of state science, have an article on the power of Storting – that the power of Storting is increasing. I think that's good. The fact that we've moved power back to Stortinget is not just good in a technical term, it's good because it means that the debate has more value. I have a great deal of faith in the negotiating power of the debate. I have a bell belief that the fact that the opinions are broken in the open room is actually processing the point of view. I believe that a government will be different if it is the most important thing for a government council to win a government conference over its colleagues, than if a government council wins in a debate in a government conference because that government conference believes that this is a debate you win in public space. There's a completely different attitude in a government that needs support from the outside in order to get through its policy, than the one that only has an internal logic in between. We experienced in the last period that this pulpit was said to vote against proposals because others have promoted them. We also felt that no one took the word on a suggestion, and no orc to write comments on them, because there was someone else who had suggested them. I hope those times are over. I hope that we now have a debate that is going to break us, and that is going to change our positions, and that through processes we will be able to create better solutions for society for the future. That's at least one of the reasons why the Left has chosen the cooperation solution that we've done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1021	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1024	I want to praise Trine Skei Grande for using so much of his post on climate. I actually think that I agreed with most of what she said in this area, and that citizen good for the future, I think. One of the key areas of climate change is to reduce emissions from the transport sector. I guess the Left's leader is ambitious in that area. We need, among other things: a strong NSB. On 4 September, the chairman of the Transport Committee was referred to in a statement in the VG under the following heading ‘Tut and drive!’. VG writes: ‘She believes it is important that the NSB monopoly be crushed by the government’s blue barn as soon as possible.’ So it's about outsourcing. Then my question to the representative Skei Grande is: Does she share the Right View of the NSB, and does she want to compete and use the same beat?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1042	The left is a liberal party. We believe that the market mechanisms can be used to provide solutions you want, but we don't have any timer belief that it always solves all of the problems. Last left in government, we put off a route that the Workers' Party would lay down: the Gjøvik Railway. The open road is going great and works just like that. Market mechanisms are then used to provide better solutions. We're open to look at this on other sections too, but I think the important thing is how we can make good deals. We've made good deals before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1049	I thank you for your answer. I know it can be a little bit small. It could be interesting in the future. If we stick to the climate, the left's leader is very ambitious in his speech, and it's state budget time. What I want to ask the leader of the Left is what ambitions the Left has for this budget. What does the government actually have to deliver for the Left to be comfortable and able to vote for it? What are the government’s demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1056	My demand is simply: the government must follow up the agreement they have with the Left and follow up the fine wording that the Prime Minister had on the sheet she gave to the King. If we can do that, we can do the important steps forward. Then we have to strengthen the climate agreement that the previous government was a little skeptical about whether we could follow up. In fact, we have to invest in public transport, and we have to convert Norwegian businesses so that we don't become so oil-dependent in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1061	I note that the Left is afraid that the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation will not bother to follow up the decision to continue the three-level model, where the county council's place in public administration is continued. The representative of Skelstad recently asked the Council of State about this. The left could have avoided these concerns if they had voted in favour of what they themselves proposed in their Document 8. I quote: ‘The proposers consider it inappropriate to introduce a municipal reform that is not based on an administrative three-tier model.’ So they voted against this in the Chamber. Now there is a shared and independent investigation, where the Vabout elections are to look at the tasks of the municipalities, while Moravian research is to look at the role of the county council. The question is whether the Left believes that two independent investigations with conflicting mandates are an appropriate way of putting forward further work on the community reform. In this context, it is also interesting to know whether the Left considers it appropriate to remove responsibility for higher education and public transport from the regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1077	There were many questions, but I'll try to explain it easily. The left is for a three-level model. We've had that through here in Stortinget. The left believes that we should have a municipal merger. The parliamentary leader of the Central Party said that the Left had gone after the hair here, but it has been quite many years since the National Assembly of the Left decided that this is what we want. We want it because we want to move power down. The only sentence I clearly agree with the parliamentary leader of the Central Party is that everything that is state-owned is not necessarily going to be good. That's what the challenge is now. We see that the state is taking more and more power because the local units are unable to do this, and that the state is getting more and more influence in the field by field in our society and taking power both from local democracy and from people's seas. We want to shift power downwards, but then the units have to be so big that they can accept that power, and then we also have to have both regional units and larger municipalities. Sticking to small branch selections in the future is going to undermine the Norwegian People's Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1083	The government has taken a number of measures to strengthen the climate agreement: green depreciation for wind power is now announced, a billion-dollar increase for public transport in major cities is on the rise, a green tax commission has fallen, more renewable energy is being invested abroad under the State pension fund, and there is a faster phasing out of fossil oil in public buildings – to mention something. Is the representative of the Skei Grande satisfied that there has been a change in the pace of climate policy since the new government came into place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1088	I believe that the representative Astrup has a truly large green environmental exposure. I guess no one is so happy that the Right Party and the Progressive Party do not have a majority alone like Astrup, because that means that we are getting a combination where we are being pushed forward with important environmental measures. Everything he did has been on the Left's list for a long time to do, but we probably also expect a lot more in the state budget, so it's probably not until Wednesday that we're cheering on the measures that have come. But what Astrup rammed up, we're really happy that we've got, because it's a change of pace that the planet really needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1093	Perhaps the most interesting thing about Trine Skei Grande's speech was that it was probably the warmest defense of the Right-front Party government's climate policy I can imagine having listened for a while from the Stockholm Chair. But I'll ask you something else. The left went to the elections for a new government and got it. So the Left in the Storting after the election chose not to enter into it, with the loss of influence it gives, but to have another type of influence through a cooperation agreement and the power that freedom to go different directions in the Storing gives. What I've started to focus more on now, is the will and the left has to use that freedom. So let me ask you three questions – whether it is possible for the Left to go into them at all. In the evening post today, the three red-green parties ask for a media policy settlement. Is it conceivable for the Left to be involved in a broad settlement about it? Today SV proposes a range of climate measures in the Stortinget that I believe Left really have sympathy for. Is it up to date to support them? We are also proposing to stop the sending of asylum-seekers who have been here for a long time. Is it up to date for the Left to support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1106	I notice that the representative, Solhjell, sees it as a hot defense for this government to come up from the throne debates when Solhjell was in government. It wasn't meant to be. It was thought that climate policy has come much higher on the political agenda, and that the speech we are now discussing on the basis of has quite a number of good formulations on objectives. But that doesn't mean we're in the goal. That means that we have very high hopes for the budget that is coming, and we may have to change it. Yes, we'd like to participate to push the policy forward. We did that in Utsira, for example. There is quite a difference from the previous period, when we were to adopt electrification, and electrification only got Left's votes. It was only we who voted for electrification of new fields, while we now have a unanimous staging behind it. That shows the dynamics we're going to use. But we're not going to use it just to mark it. We're going to use it to bring the policy forward. As far as climate action is concerned, we're going to use budgetary clarity to try to push it through.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1115	Optimism is a good thing. The Green Party must, of course, at our premise, both cheer up and do our utmost to ensure that the Left realises its high expectations of climate policy, such as climate policy. is represented in the Common Era. One of the things that is not very clear in the census is the care of Norwegian nature and the whole of natural, environmental and climate policy. That is why in Norway we now have a situation where the green certificates, which in themselves are a good idea, provide in practice energy that does not cut climate emissions, which does not lead to an improvement in climate efficiency, but which has severe natural costs that are even uncoordinated. Can the representative Skei Grande say a little about how the Left thinks about getting those considerations back into government's environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1124	I am very pleased that the Greens will help the Left through its policy, but I do not believe that the Greens together will get a majority in this Chamber, so we must probably ask for help from someone else before we can contribute to climate change. But what I agree with the Green Party representative is the importance of seeing the whole of Norwegian nature. In the very short list we have in the cooperation agreement of the laws you are not allowed to touch, lies among other things. the Nature Diversity Act. And the reason why that's why we see that we have a party here that previously defined itself as a center party, that likes to attack those parts together with the Right and the Advance Party. I think it's important to take care of the entire green spectrum, including the classic nature protection. And then I think you have to have a more holistic plan, where you see that wind power works well somewhere. Elsewhere it destroys too much of our nature, and then we shouldn't use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1133	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1136	Once in the future, our grandchildren are going to ask us what we used the power we had on the Storing. It's our very future test. I'm afraid they're going to ask us, was it common to have a steady job when you were young? Is it true that you knew about climate change, but did you continue just as before? We have a duty to make choices that last for years, over generations. We have a duty to prioritize what is most important for the future. SV has clear answers to what is most important. The three main challenges for Norway are: withdrawing Norway from the oil age and creating a modern low-emission economy to strengthen the community by reducing social disparities and renewing and improving the welfare state to give equal opportunities to different people through a policy of equality and liberation It's the green, the red and the feminist. These are the three political pillars on which we want to build both the left side of the future and the Norway of the future. We need a green policy for a sustainable future. We now have a government that does not take the climate challenge seriously. We have an oil and energy minister who announces full gas on the Norwegian base, and a prime minister who says we should take up all the oil it is technically possible to get up. The Minister for Climate Change believes that the debate on leaving some of the oil is a ‘side track’. Today, when we think about what we knew about the climate problems 20 years ago, we wonder how far we could have come if we had acted adequately over the twenty years. When we look back in 20 years on the Norwegian climate debate in 2014, the gap between knowledge and action will be even more striking. We knew everything. We didn't do much. Even with the heaviest knowledge of history, the government can't really take the climate problem seriously. When we need a new course more than anything else, the government’s answer is ‘steam course’ — ‘business as usual’ — full gas. But we can choose another way. If the Storting wants to, we can take the climate noise seriously. The government has long announced that it will follow up the climate agreement, but it will be careful with the warnings. This is the session in which the concrete proposals must come into being. We are going to make proposals to the Storting that will ensure that we are able to cut the 8 million tonnes of CO2 needed to achieve the climate agreement's objectives by 2020. The government lacks a plan now, and if it doesn't come soon, the Storting must make that plan instead, so that we don't throw out on the future test. We need a red policy for a solidarity future, because small social differences are a necessary ingredient in a good society. Countries with great economic inequalities score worse on everything that is important for human quality of life: health, crime, security, trust. Great differences are poisoned for a society. It is possible to reduce differences in Norway, and in our alternative state budget, SV will show how this can be done. The government, on the other hand, increases disparities, through a tax policy that gives large tax cuts to directors and rich people, while low pay does not get anything, through privatisation in health and school, and through changes in working life that will give workers less security and less power over their own jobs. Community functions. Community is the most effective way to organise well-being, school and health, and it is in strong communities that we best guarantee the individual's freedom. We create freedom together, not each one of us. The most profitable investment in the community a society can make is a better growth for our children. Therefore, SV will bet on more teachers in school. That's why we want to ensure both health and learning for our children, with homework, physical activity and food for all schoolchildren. Therefore, we will complete the kindergarten reform, with two admissions a year and lower prices. That's why we want a child and youth health promise that can secure 1,500 new health sisters, and school health service every day in all the country's schools. And that's why we're going to challenge the bulk of the population that across the blocks are agreeing that the benefits of the poorest families are to be kept down. Without a new policy that takes it seriously, we never get rid of child poverty. SV will have a welfare state that makes it unnecessary to resort to commercial alternatives. We want to increase basic staffing in the care of the elderly, so that our old people get a hand to hold on when they need it. We want to make better use of the capacity of public hospitals, instead of sending money to commercial competitors. We want them with the greatest needs to get to treatment first, not the patients who pay the most. Care is care, not the store. The welfare state is not supposed to make money, it's supposed to serve people. Instead of more privatisation and more markets, we will have a public sector renewal that can free creativity, professionalism and time in school, health care and care for the elderly. The teacher strike was an important warning to all of us: Good teachers need freedom to follow up the students, not more detailed management of their working life. Teachers must get their trust back. Similarly, in the care of the elderly we have to stop the stopwatches, and in the hospitals doctors have to spend less time on papers and more time on patients. SV will have less control, less market and more trust. For this reason, SV will propose trust reforms both in the education system and in the health system. We need a feminist policy for a future with freedom and equal opportunities for all. SV is the only declared feminist party of the Storting. We shouldn't be alone about that. You're a feminist if you can answer yes to two very simple questions: Is power and wealth systematically divided between women and men? Do you think we should do something about that? Equality is the most important freedom project of our time. It's about us all having the same opportunities, the same freedom to live our lives as we want, and that traditional gender roles shouldn't set a tight framework for what you can do, how you can live, and who you can love. One can read in a throne speech something about what a government is busy about, and quite a lot about what a government is not concerned about. I noticed that gender equality policy was not at all mentioned in this census. That is why it is justified to ask: does this government have an equal opportunities policy at all? Do we have an equality minister at all? In this debate, we call for answers: How should working life be changed to make it easier to combine work with children? How are we going to move forward towards equal pay? How are we to combat the greatest security problem for too many people in our country: the violence of men against women? This debate is moving towards a dramatic international backstop. We condemn Russia's aggression in Ukraine, and we look with concern at the rise of ISIL in Kurdish areas in Syria and Iraq. Right now the Kurds are fighting for their lives and for their future in Rojava, in the Kurdish part of Syria. We should use this day to show our solidarity with the struggle of the Kurdish people against ethnic cleansing, terror and fundamentalism. In this room, we disagree on how much we believe in the US strategy to crush ISIL. But we must not let the disagreement on Norwegian military contributions stand in the way of what we can agree on: a stronger humanitarian effort and a brighter attitude towards refugees from the war in Syria. Under the blue government, Norway has become a slightly smaller country. The government has rejected families who have disappeared from each other in the Syrian war and 123 sick victims of war, it will hunt down Europe's poorest people if they show their poverty on our streets, and it has fallen to the knees of China instead of standing firm on important principles. Today we want to invite the Storting to provide more solidarity and less pettyness. During the weekend, it was known that the number of asylum children sent out is increasing dramatically, despite the fact that the majority of people have promised a new legislation, which will allow more long-term children to become. It does not help children if they are sent out before the rules come into place. That is why I appeal to the parties in Stortinget to support our proposal for a rescuing of the cases and a temporary stoppage in shipments to new legislation for the asylum-seekers is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1196	Would the representative like to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1199	I would love to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1205	Then the representative Audun Lyssbakken has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1210	On 5 August we read in the newspaper that Snorre Serigstad Valen requires the Workers' Party to clarify its tax policy. He also said that there is nothing to suggest that the 2004 level should be the starting point. I fully agree with Mr Valen that the Labour Party should clarify its fiscal policy. But when the Socialist Left demands clear answers, one must also be able to demand clear answers from the Socialist Left. My question is therefore: What taxes does SV want to raise?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1217	The Socialist Left Party went to elections on a very clear tax promise that we are going to hold in our alternative budgets. It was that we wanted to keep the total tax level as it was in 2013, plus 9 billion. kr that we want to take from the banking and financial industries, because the banking and financial industries are not taxed on the same lines as the rest of the business, something like that. The financial crisis committee, which the former government put down, pointed out, is problematic, both for a fair tax base for our business and for financial stability. Then we're going to propose, crown by crown, to reverse the unsocial taxes that this government gives to the richest in Norway, who don't need it, and to spend the money both on tax cuts for low pay and on sensible, forward-looking welfare measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1224	I thank you for your answer. It's good to hear clear answers on tax policy from parties on the left. It's not something we're used to. I think it's good that we have a lot of parties. It makes the refraction better and the shades more. In my opinion, SV belongs in the national Parliament. Unfortunately, it might look like there aren't so many others who believe it, when we look at the measurements. I think it's strange, all the time I think SV has been good at setting things up. Unfortunately, public vocabulary has not really been about things so much lately. Rather, it's been a search for what the largest party on the left really means. The Workers' Party has raised doubts about what the Workers' Party believes about cash support, taxes and oil. You might say that they're moving. Does the representative agree that it is a challenge for the whole debate to be so vague in the Labour Party? And what does the representative really mean about that direction, if you can call it that, that the Workers' Party is now taking?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1233	I thought there were many wise reflections about the importance of SV in Norwegian policy. I also note that the opposition is now asking questions about SV's policy to the head of the Workers' Party, and about the Labour Party's policy to me. I might recommend a little bit better coordination, so that we can actually answer for ourselves. I am very happy to answer for the position SV takes, both about taxes, about cash support and about other debates that are now in the wind. And then I think it's fair and fair that it's Jonas Gahr Støre who gets an answer for the Labour Party's policy. That there are differences between our two parties, there is no secret. This is also why there are two parties on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy, just as there are two parties on the right-hand side of Norwegian policy, with significant differences between themselves in a number of important issues. I look forward to the clarifications the Workers' Party is going to do, but it is my job to be most concerned with the clarifications and the priorities SV is going to do, and we will do that, among other things. do when we present our first alternative state budget of ten years in the autumn. It'll be important and exciting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1240	The representative Lightbakken tells us that the Socialist Left Party represents a red policy that will give more central governance and less freedom of choice for the individual, and that will also cost a lot of money. The answer to how this should be financed is among others: that the rich will pay more taxes. Norway's richest man, John Fredriksen, has not paid taxes to Norway in very, very many years. According to the latest estimates, he is good for well over 100 billion. kr. That means that if he wanted to find a way to move back to Norway, he would have to pay 1 billion. kr in taxes on wealth in the year, or approx. Three million. kr per day. My question is, if 3 million. kr in property taxes per day is too small, what is the right level? How much did the representative Lysbakken think that John Fredriksen should pay at a property tax per day if he finds himself moving back to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1249	I guess it wasn't a direct quote from my post Hagesetter came with regard to the consequences of the Socialist Left Party's policy. The politics of the Left Party will be a policy for fewer differences and more decentralisation of both power and money in the Norwegian community. It may be an important reminder to the representative, Mr Hagesett, that the tax policy for his government is far better for Oslo's west side than for our common state, Mr Hordaland. It's a distribution table I'd recommend Hagesets to look closely at. As regards taxes on wealth, we believe it is fair, right and necessary that the richest pay taxes on wealth. It is necessary for redistribution, to keep the differences down, it is necessary to avoid zero taxpayers and it is necessary to finance well-being. If the right-hand side strategy to avoid tax refugees is to make sure that they still don't pay any taxes if they stay, I think it's a bad strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1258	Unfortunately, it's a fact that we have strange taxes. The property tax is a strange tax, which means that there are a lot of people who like to spend time abroad and don't want to spend time in Norway, because they get a distortion of competition, they get a tax that foreign owners don't have. It also applies to direct taxes on enterprises. Property taxes are an indirect tax on enterprises, because owners have to deduct values from businesses in order to pay and finance the property tax. My question to Audun Lyssbakken is: does Audun Lyssbakken look at the whole thing that the level of taxation in a country can be decisive both for each bus and for each established enterprise? And: does the representative Lightbakken believe that the tax pressure in a country can be decisive for how much value creation we can get in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1265	It may be worth recalling – when the Progress Party is concerned about a so-called curious wealth tax – that while taxing the owners of the enterprises, which is socially fair and necessary, other countries, which do not have that tax, or which have abolished that kind of tax, have increased the tax on the enterprises. For example, there is a much higher employer’s fee in Sweden. I think it makes much more sense to continue a price where we have taxing the owners, and then we can rather assess the taxing of the companies. The previous government did a grip that I thought was very wise. It lowered corporate taxes while increasing taxes for some other parts of Norwegian business that it thought were sensible to increase tax burden, in order to contribute to a tax policy that shifts activity to what we want. Of course, we are in favour of such a tax policy. We're open to lowering taxes for parts of business when that makes sense, but we're not open to an unsocial abolition of taxes for the richest owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1272	I thought the representative Lightbaking made it a little simple. I think it should be understood that it is interesting to ask SV about what they think about the Workers' Party's proposal and to ask the Workers' Party if they are some of the SV's proposals, because it says something about the realism of a plurality – possibly at a later time. But my question concerns SV's policy in an area that I thought it was exciting to follow SV. It's genetic and biotechnology. Now Kristin Halvorsen has become the leader of the Biotechnology Study, and she has been asked if she is happy that we are conservative in Norway. She then, not surprisingly, said that she likes that label very badly, but she also says that we have to remember that this is an area that is very commercial and very expert-driven, and that many people are exposed to extensive marketing. When we know which possibilities – but also frightening possibilities – lie in this area, my question is: What is SV, which has been a little bit in motion around these kinds of questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1281	I'm glad that Hareide underlines the opportunities for another majority in 2017. There is no doubt that SV has a key to it. But Hareide asks an important question. SV is a party where I think about all the views that exist in the biotechnology debate exist. It's a situation I'm very comfortable with, because it's difficult questions. There are major dilemmas about using much of the new technology that comes, but also the dilemma of not putting it into practice. There are important value debates, important ethical questions, where I am glad that both views are very often represented in our party, such as that. was in the difficult debate on early ultrasound. If we didn't have two visions in many of those matters, I would be busy getting it, because it also makes SV an exciting place to discuss some of the most demanding challenges we're going to face in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1287	There are many important themes in a throne speech. One of them was the serious situation in Ukraine, in Europe, which also the Light Bin was inside its post. The reason I'm taking a line is that I've registered that there's been a debate in the Light Hill Party lately with an commitment to that issue, where the government that was invited to criticize Russia's aggressive behaviour, rather than criticise NATO. I registered last week that SV’s Vice President in the Newspaper wrote that he could not stand for that decision and asked for a clarification of SV’s and left-hand views on the situation in Ukraine. Is it possible to get such a clarification from the representative Lighthouse today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1292	The point of view of the SV Group and my view is very clear: the responsibility for the conflict that is now taking place in Ukraine lies with Russia. It is Russia that has both violated international law and has come forward with a major power decision that we believe is totally unacceptable. This means that it is absolutely essential to call on Russia to end its aggression and change its policies. We attach great importance to being a consistent party, a party that is opposed to power-save either from Russia or from the United States, and that defends international law whether it is about the conflict in Ukraine, the conflict in the Middle East or in its time the invasion of the United States in Iraq. And it's important to me that we continue to be. There are some other parties in this room that have been severally less consistent and that have reason to face such a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1297	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1300	The government initiates this year's census by acknowledging that we need to adapt to what the earth can withstand from greenhouse gas emissions, and that the oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economy. These are reasonable confessions. It also confirms that, after a year with the Greens in Stortinget, the political debate has moved on – in the right direction. There will be more attention on our main political points: we need to start developing the next generation of Norway, the sustainable welfare state, now. This must be the framework for all policies, including industrial policy, labour policy, health policy, school policy and fisheries and agricultural policy. That is why the Green Party – as long as we only have one representative on the Stortinget – is currently using the most powerful of these. Reason is only useful if it is used and followed by action. The government, with the help of the supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party, has carried out good individual actions during the year they have been sitting, and they are now alerting more. A review of green taxes and taxes becomes exciting. 65 million. kr in collective investment in cities is good, better depreciation rules for wind power is good, 12 billion. The technology fund is good and, of course, the continuation of ground-breaking rainforests and electric cars is very sensible. Above all, the Environment Party welcomes the commitment of the Green Government to research and development outside the oil sector. This is a matter that we are going to prioritise. Here we will seek cooperation, and we will support ambitious policies. So we have a government that is capable of implementing action whenever it wants to, but in recent years' combined knowledge development and experience has no doubt that individual measures in an otherwise unchanged main policy, without binding objectives, are not producing results. The nature of the earth is in crisis. The WWF's new Living Planet Report shows that the world's animal populations are halved in just 40 years. The concept of natural diversity tends to be associated with hair freezes, cauliflowers, cuneiform tailflies, rock bluewings – things that only reap political interest every time they get in the way of a motorway. But this diversity of nature is the basis of life on earth. That's our food. That's what we're breathing in. The fact that human activity has destroyed half of this in just 40 years is the most dramatic proof that we have very little time to find new ways to organise economics, consumption and resource management. This also applies here in Norway. Global greenhouse gas emissions are part of this picture. They are not pointing at a two-degree target today, but at 4-5 degrees of warming, and the UN climate summit recently confirmed that the world is not at all on the way to a global climate agreement, and not at any global carbon price. Norway is one of the drivers of global warming through our oil and gas exports and our resource consumption. The average northerly man is by head the fourth largest exporter of greenhouse gases in the world. We make a lot of money on this, and it gives us a lot of responsibility. At the same time, it's important to note that there's a lot of promising international happening, but it's very much because some people are acting themselves, rather than waiting for international solutions. So it's the job at home that determines what we get, both in total and in international cooperation. It is therefore directly irresponsible by the government and by the majority of the population to create the impression that the big problems are primarily solved internationally, while we continue almost as before at home. We must also make it clear: the Right Party and the Advance Party have spent their first year in government demonstrating a very constructively low level of policy that actually makes Norway more sustainable. The main focus is consumer growth. We see zero measures for Norwegian nature, we see zero emission cuts. It's alarming to see the reluctance to cohesiveness in a value conservative party like the Right. In an oil economy, values such as food soil, food production, nature and outdoor life are lost when the scale is short-term profitability. It requires continuous awareness and effort to preserve such fundamental values. Destroying them requires only one-off decisions. We are concerned that the Right does not seem to see this, how the industrialisation of agriculture will push animal welfare, how the continued degradation of food soil will cost future costs, what snowmobiles release will cost nature, outdoors and public health, and what the down-priority environmental focus of spatial planning will cost nature and culture. This reluctance to globalise is the main obstacle to sustainable development in Norwegian policy. It is the reason why the initial promising climate agreement is now a sad failure. The red-green government would not cut emissions. The blue government has discovered to its amazement that we are far behind the climate promises, and then it does not help to repeat 75 times that one will strengthen the climate agreement, especially when the Prime Minister at the same time announces that we will not do the emissions cuts. We are already on the way into a situation that many have warned. While the majority of population do not use today’s space for action to lead Norway on a sustainable course, the space for action is narrowed by international development. Large oil and gas resources in many parts of the world point to long-term low oil and gas prices. This means that expensive Norwegian projects will be pushed into price, and from the other side we are pushed by an accelerating renewable development. The EU plans to become independent of carbon. The probability is decreasing rapidly that workers in Mongstad, Aker Verdal and Sveagraves in Svalbard will have oil and coal jobs to go to in a few years' time. The reluctance to build on the whole and the unwillingness to use the large instruments has become the mark of Norwegian policy. The Greens believe that this is the most important thing for sustainable development, and we want to put the pressure here. We have to make the new jobs for today's oil workers now. It will require at least as much effort as Norway did when we created the oil adventure, and we have the inputs. Today’s massive tax benefits, depreciation rules and guarantees for the oil sector need to be shifted to the renewable industry. It's focusing on development. We must commit ourselves to sustainability, as we commit ourselves in other areas of society. A climate law will set the overall framework and provide the coordination for Norwegian energy, climate and industrial policy, which today shines with its absence. It will ensure that action in one sector is seen in the context of action in another sector and, above all, it will give Norwegian business the predictability it needs in order to trigger creativity and to be able to invest in the long term. We have to use the oil fund. That's our greatest foreign policy tool in the world. It is becoming increasingly pointless to have an ambitious international policy without using our greatest tool. Today, the pension fund is very likely to counteract good climate policy and to counteract sustainable development. The Green Party has arranged to use about 5 pst. in the first instance of the Sustainable Investment Fund, and the Stortinget has a proposal from the Greens for a climate percentage, i.e. shooting in 30 billion. kr – corresponding to 1 pst. by GNI — from the oil fund and to the United Nations Green Climate Fund. The whole point of the UN Green Climate Fund — for which Norway has been a driving force — is that rich countries are providing critically needed funds for renewable development in poor countries. That development is the prerequisite for achieving the climate and sustainability goals here in the world. The 200 million. As the government has promised so far, it is at best a very clever start from a country that can so much, much more that we are in an international special class. I want to sum up by asking the government three questions. Firstly, what are the workers at the Mongstad refinery, in Aker Verdal and in the Great Norwegian Kullkompani working on when their businesses are shut down? Secondly, what is meant in practice – climate change – to strengthen climate reconciliation? And third, what will the government do to meet the commitments to stop the loss of natural diversity in Norway by 2020? In Finland and Sweden, the Greens have gone out and into government respectively. [[President clubs]] It shows that the Green Party is seeking power, but also stands for its positions when we cannot implement them. [[The President Clubs Again]] We are happy to have been chosen into an exciting big deal. We're looking forward to hot debates, and we're going to pour environmental diesel on the fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1328	The President requests that the speaking time be followed. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1333	I'm one of those people who think it's an exciting feature that the Greens are in the Biggest. I don't know if that alone is why we're taking the climate more seriously in the debates, but I think it brings in new perspectives, more knowledge and also an important commitment, and I'm going to give one representative a preliminary reward for that. There was a lot of interesting in his post. I think it must be important to be able to talk about national and international bets without talking one down in order to talk the other up – both are important. But my question is about an area where the Green Party is not often so clear, and I can understand that, and the representative also explains which choices are made, and it is about switching between private consumption and public consumption. The government announced in the revised budget that private consumption is rising faster than public consumption. They now also report large cuts in taxes and taxes that will further increase private consumption. What is the Environment Party The Greens' view of fiscal policy interventions and distribution in general, because it is about where society uses its large resources to achieve important objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1340	For the Green Party, it is absolutely essential that we should, first of all, pursue a policy of solidarity with all the people who are part of our society and the society that is around us. That means that we have to pay together for the costs that are required for us to have a welfare society. This means that in the long term, when we look into a society where we might have slightly less luxurious incomes from, for example. oil production, it will be more necessary to cover some of the basic Community expenditure. In addition, a one-sided emphasis on private consumption is a direct driver of the resource growth that is a fundamental problem here in the world, beyond the climate problem, and we do not ignore the need to calm down private consumption by shifting consumption from private to public.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1345	I'm glad that the representative Hansson is concerned with an overall perspective on things. After reading the Green Party's party programme, I have to say that it is missing there, but perhaps it is taken care of by the representative. You are, for example, for renewable energy, but against having hydropower and small power within the electricity certification scheme, to give an example. A comprehensive perspective is also important because both the welfare state and the welfare society, of which Hansson was involved in a previous succession, as well as the green shift must be financed. It's not the oil we live on in Norway – I think most people are happy about it – it's our workforce. So we know from the Green Party's programme that they want all real wage increases to be taken out in the form of increased leisure time. In that case, it will mean that our ability to finance well-being and the green shift will be less in the future. Does not the representative Hansson see how problematic such a conversion of the Norwegian economy would be?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1354	I see clearly that there will be problems associated with any conversion of both Norwegian and other economies. It's not like we're going to imagine neither ourselves nor the voters that correcting some of the problems today's economic development actually creates will be totally cost-free and unpleasant. The environmental party of the Greens focuses on the search, and where we look forward to other parties coming after, is the fact that a development that unilaterally does the opposite, namely wanting to take out productivity growth and efficiency growth through increased consumption, is a policy that undermines and reinforces the problems that the Right and the representative Astrup are also committed to solving. There's no reason to believe that even more of the medicine that has created a lot of the problem is what will solve the problem. Then you can undoubtedly discuss how much is to be taken into account, for example. reduced working time, but there is no doubt that it is a type of value that must be on the table to compete with only real wage growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1361	We live at a time when poor countries are experiencing economic growth because of trade, globalisation and economic reforms. It's amazing. At the same time, we see increased inequalities in Western countries, and workers are under pressure from international competition. Also in Norway, we have to take international developments inwards as oil revenue decreases in the future and the Norwegian economy is more like the economy of our neighbouring countries. It is likely that company taxes will have to be reduced, unless we can risk relocations. We should also give tax relief to non-governmental organisations, which are making a great effort in the welfare community. And we should provide targeted tax reductions to promote environmentally friendly choices. At the same time, we need to focus on private property, income and consumption, where they have to contribute most to the community. Does the Environment Party share the main features of our thinking?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1368	The short answer is yes, as the representative drew up a relatively long canvas of actions that I cannot address individually. However, there is no doubt that Norway will have to adapt both its economy and its charging system to the post-oil situation. Now it is not that we are today international losers because of the tax agenda we have today, but roughly it is that those who have a lot are the ones who have to contribute the most, combined – and there I am concerned about commending the thinking that the government stands for – that we need to put in place tools to bring about new businesses, small businesses and innovation, and that is what we think is the most fruitful way to set up a future tax system. There I am sure we can come to an agreement with both the Christian People's Party and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1376	Well, the program for green might be a little fragmented, like Astrup said, but there are good passes there, for example. it states that ‘viable local communities, mainly based on local resources’, are a commitment to achieving their green objectives in society, and it states that one must ‘manage a differentiated transport policy that distinguishes cities and districts’. This could be the Center Party's program. I would also like to believe that the Greens share the view of the Greens that a completely necessary commitment to value creation and viable local communities is good communication and emergence. People must come to and from, whether they're in town or in the countryside. That is why we need to invest significantly in road development, something that the Greens do not include in their programme. So I would like to know how the Green Party prioritizes the road and the road in Norwegian districts over the coming years, and whether it is such that the ferry in Sogn and Fjordane must stop at the tram in Oslo, which I thought to be right before today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1383	As stated in the Environment Party of the Greens' Alternative State Budget last year and will be reflected in our alternative budget this year – here comes a budgetary leakage – there is no doubt that we will continue to invest in road standards and road safety in the districts. But we're making a choice when it comes to the major road operations, and I disagree with the Central Party, even though Navarsete's representative is quite right that we agree with the Center Party on a lot of things. The big choice we're making is that we're not in favour of a large-scale extension of motorways. We want to move that effort to public transport – trains, railways, etc. – and bicycle. We do that because we are fully convinced that Norway as a whole has a great advantage of it, and that both the policy of the motorway bet next to the railway is undermining long-term environmental and sustainability objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1388	First, I want to thank you for a good post. The description of the world and the situation we're in, I and Left agree. I also think it is good to be praised for what has been achieved in the last year on the civil side, because it is a long list of measures that have been implemented and are in the process of being implemented. But I have a question -- really out of curiosity. The Devil is often in the detail, and we must implement the policy and also meet the Greens in several areas of public transport, for which we have a common interest. However, in terms of organisation, the parties often distinguish layers both in terms of local traffic and the urban environment package. If you're willing to stand behind the local consensus, for example. Oslopackak 3, which the Greens have voted against locally? Are you willing to support this nationally? And when you look at the railways, are you willing to apply the necessary tendering procedures, competitive outsourcing, where this is needed in our opinion, in order to get a better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1395	Thank you for a good and difficult question. Let me do Oslopackak 3 first. There's the situation that it's very understandable that a party like the Left, who has been involved in negotiating such a package, sees it as politically necessary to stand behind it. At the same time, we believe it is fruitful and right for a party that is free from such a package to point out the fact that the collective and environmental content of the package is too poor. That's why the Green Party is going to stand up to that package to make that mark. On the second issue, on financial instruments, etc. for public transport, I shall be completely open and honest about the fact that the Greens do not have a programme with the Environment Party, and we look forward to discussing with both the Left and the Left in Norwegian policy what are the best solutions in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1402	I would like to thank the representative for a good report. I fully agree that resolving climate problems – being able to stop dangerous climate change, while at the same time taking care of biodiversity and being able to do so in a fair way, which is a broad welcome, which I think is absolutely necessary – is the biggest challenge of our generation. To Rasmus Hansson I have one question. His installation was mainly related to environmental and climate issues, which I understand. One question is as follows: What is the most important Rasmus Hansson want to do at Stortinget, which is not about environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1411	The most important thing that Rasmus Hansson will achieve, is, to respond broadly, a more solidarity policy – a policy that is in solidarity with those who are weak in society, and a policy that is in solidarity with those who are weak internationally. Of course, it's a terribly broad answer, but it says something about what is the basis of the value of the way we think about it. In concrete terms, the most important thing I want to do at Stortinget is to have a refugee and immigration policy that takes inwards the fact that the world around us is in a completely exceptional situation, where normal thinking around the issues just does not reach the scale of the problems. So we're going to work for a policy that's brighter, more liberal and more responsive to the people who have it hard around us here on Earth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1416	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1419	One of the really big benefits of the throne debate is that you can lift your eyes a little bit and see the whole thing, which is sometimes demanding in point-of-case debates, also in the Stortinget. Therefore, I would like to stress that the government is thinking completely in the area of security, preparedness, justice and asylum, and has suggested that we should in future think in chains. Politicians are often very good at solving some small problems, focusing very strongly on some small parts of a puzzle game, while the big challenges are really being able to think completely. With regard to the Ministry of Justice and Security, the government has therefore proposed that we think completely within the criminal chain, the asylum chain and the social security and preparedness chain. In the criminal case chain, the government has made a very strong commitment to, among other things. police, justice and criminal justice in 2014. At the same time, we see that the challenges, within the police's tasks, the prosecution authority, the courts and the criminal justice system, are very great. It's important that you see the context. Now there has been a round of media around the major challenges of criminal services and developments in the last ten to twelve years. The capacity challenges in criminal justice are so great that it also characterises the ability and ability of the police, the prosecution authority and the courts to do their job quickly and effectively. That's why it's important that we not just bet on one side of the criminal case chain, but that we ensure a flow through this whole chain. Police shall be able to prevent, investigate, organise and secure our preparedness. We are to ensure that the prosecution authority has the necessary resources to have an effective procedure, we rely on the courts to resolve their tasks within the time limits set, and we must have a place to place those who are convicted. The government has announced that it will come back to Stortinget this fall with a police reform. We're coming up with our own big message about the criminal justice system, precisely because we want to raise those parts of the criminal perspective that are crucial for us as a society to succeed in creating a safer Norway. The asylum chain is also important. We see a world in development that creates challenging challenges for very many people, like refugees. Norway shall assume its responsibilities, both where the refugees are located, and here at home. It is important that we do our part, and that we have an effective procedure for those who come to Norway and seek protection. Unfortunately, for too long it has been that the processing time, the period of execution of either one’s stay or refusal, has been so long that it is obvious that it characterises those who have come to Norway for protection. Therefore, the government strongly prioritises the link between the outcome of the asylum application and the subsequent action. If you stay, you have to settle quickly. If you don't get it, you have to be returned quickly. The government has set great targets to achieve this in 2014, as we have increased the number of shipments by about 45 pst. compared to last year. Social security and preparedness are also high on the agenda. It's a more complicated chain, because there's a lot of actors. There are municipalities, there are counties, there are statesmen, and there are state actors, who want to ensure that we have adequate social security and preparedness out there where people are. A crucial part of the job we're going to do in the future is to ensure coordination between the different segments so that we get better overall social security than what we have today. It is important to refer to the involvement of the police, which ensures preparedness. It is important to point out the civil defence effort – we in Stortinget have in the past been very clear that civil defence must be given priority in terms of equipment acquisitions in order to be the strengthening organisation they are to be in the event of major societal events. It's important for us to secure in the future. It is important to use this kind of opportunity — short, correct — to see things in context throughout the criminal chain, the asylum chain and the social security and preparedness chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1436	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1439	We are anticipating the Minister of Justice's work in relation to the police reform. It is an important reform, both to strengthen the police and to ensure the security of our country. Last year, in the debate on the throne, I noticed that the Prime Minister said that a person would seek broad cooperation on the major reforms. I'm glad, because so does the Labour Party. Now, police reform is a delay. There are ring-fences as to the time the Storting can handle it, and as to the time the police themselves can start work on implementing the reform. It's unfortunate. I know that the police are impatient and on their feet after starting. My question to the Minister of Justice is whether he also sees the value of having open, democratic negotiations in the Grand Duchy when the police reform is presented, and whether it is such that he aims to ensure that this is possible to land before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1450	It would have been tempting just to answer ‘yes’ to that question, but I would like to add a comment to the premise that the police reform should be delayed, because it is simply not right. The assumption of the Police Analysis Committee was, in relation to the plan of progress they outlined, that one should present this NOU to the Stortinget more or less unprocessed. The government has chosen not to do so. On the contrary, we've invited all the big parties to participate in the processes before we're going to present the follow-up to the Police Analysis. It has four parties – the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left – been interested in participating. But it does not, of course, prevent one from having completely open and good discussions in Stortinget. It is in Stortingen that these decisions will eventually end. We're dedicated to finding the best solutions, and we don't necessarily have the fasit of it in any context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1456	I am very pleased to hear that the Minister of Justice wishes to open, democratic negotiations in the Grand Duchy when the matter is brought before the Grand Duchy. And then from our side we will work well with the reform when it is presented. I think it should be an ambition that she can be signed here before Christmas, so that the police can start working as early as 1 January 2015. Is the Minister of Justice in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1461	I've only been a government council for a very short year, but I've learned that setting very bastant deadlines often becomes a challenge because it can show up situations along the way that make things more complicated. However, I fully agree with the representative that it is essential that we resolve this as quickly as possible. It's absolutely right that there's impatience out there, and it's absolutely right that we have an open window now that gradually closes, if this takes too long. It is absolutely essential that we deliver this as quickly as practicable. But it's also important that what we deliver has a quality that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1468	In the cooperation agreement, the Christian People's Party agrees with the government to establish a more effective asylum and settlement policy process. The agreement agrees that much more attention should be paid to the best interests of children in matters relating to long-term asylum children. This, of course, applies to the proceedings themselves, but the intention is equally clear that there will be a liberalisation of the legislation, so that more people will remain in line with current practices, which unfortunately have continued to be red-green practices. It is inhuman to let children stay in an unexplained situation for years. Now, it's very urgent to have a change of rules for the so-called permanent solution, so that more people can stay. It waits for society outside and here impatiently. The consultation round for new guidelines has been concluded, and we are waiting for them to come from the department of the department. The question to the Minister of Justice will be: From what time does the Minister of Justice expect a new, lasting solution to come into effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1475	It is a difficult question to answer by date, but we have registered and also agree with both the Christian People's Party and the Left that it is important that we get this in place quickly. As the representative Tuskedal himself says, the hearing has recently ended. There's been a lot of hearings, part of them quite critical. Therefore, it is natural that we have conversations with our partners about how this is followed up. But this is a work that has a high priority in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1480	Parliamentary leader of the Progress Party, Harald T. Nesvik, who is party to the Minister of Justice, said in his speech that the government is delivering on the major, comprehensive reforms, and so on, and so on. the police and finally added that he likes to get started with the work. The jobeeker must be absolutely unkidden, but it is important that there is the right grip to be taken. American historian Henry Brooks Adams said that practical politics is the art of ignoring facts. In any case, it is easier to get to work quickly and make big changes if a person ignores the facts and arguments that speak against these changes. Minister of Justice Anundsen is also a man who wants to show his power of action – that is good. However, I would like to hear whether the Minister of Justice is able to identify the facts and arguments against a massive pooling of police districts and officers' offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1487	I can provide arguments both for and against, and we're going to do it when we get to Stortinget with the follow-up to the Police Analysis. I think it's important not to think that wanting more robust professional environments in the police is the same as ignoring facts. It's a pretty good foundation work that's been done in connection with the job that the Police Analysis Committee has done, which I think it's important to bring with it. At the same time, I have clarified – and been very clear – that this is a basis for discussion, not fasit. It is a view that I am absolutely convinced that the representative Klinge will recognize when Stortinget is sent the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1492	Governments have experienced – and that is one of the closest things I think it is possible for a politician to experience on the body – the involvement of the Left in the area of asylum children. Now, in the media, the Progress Party in the Government may try to send out as much as possible before the new legislation works, and as if many of the broadcasting procedures and rules have been changed because they want to get out as much as possible before the new legislation comes into force. Now I want an answer from the Council of State as to whether it is correct that some such messages have been given in the system. It will probably decide the Left's vote on the proposal that is before us today, which the Left has promoted many times before and has been left alone. So my question to the Council of State is, has he given any notice in the system that will give us a massive broadcast before the new legislation comes into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1499	I am very pleased with that question – we have not done so. We have increased the number of returns in general, and this also leads to more people being sent out. But what we've done in this regard is that we've actually raised the focus of our letter of assignment in relation to the previous government. The previous government said in 2013 that cases involving children who have stayed for a long time in Norway without a permit shall be given priority. We've done it over, so that it's not the ones who've been here for a long time, that's the priority, but the children's families in general, so that we get a connection between the time of the decision and the time of the broadcast, in order to avoid situations where children stay for a very long time in Norway. But the government has not sent any signals to give priority to a long-term child in order to send them more quickly to the front of a code. I think that would also be an unacceptable act in relation to the contractual relationship that the government has with the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1504	The fact that almost 500 long-term asylum children are now thrown out in a year is in quite a contrast to the agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left that more consideration should be given to long-term children. Many of them have not tried their case against the short-term one-off solution, but now the hearing on the permanent scheme has been a while, and the Council of State mentioned it in its contribution. Very many of the hearing bodies are very critical and say that this is actually a narrowing-down – UDI, among other things, says it. Is it true, then, that if the long-term children are to be taken more into account – and I suppose so – this agreement will then be renegotiated, or will the Minister of Justice insist on the text that the hearing bodies say is a real tightening?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1511	First of all, about the one-time solution: as a government, we've increased the number of shipments by 45 pst. in relation to the previous government. That means there are more people in general being sent out. That also means that there will be more children being sent out. So the claim was that many of these that are now being sent out are not going to try their case in relation to the one-time solution. That's not right. UNE assesses in each case whether they will fall inside or outside and whether implementation will be postponed on that basis. As far as the permanent mechanism is concerned, it is correct, as the representative says, that there are several critical consultation responses in the hearing that have been held. That means we have to have a proper, thorough review of what should be the follow-up to it, not least because the government has an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. That means that in that follow-up we must be in close dialogue with the Christian People's Party and the Left too. There is no doubt that the intention of this agreement is that there should be increased emphasis on the situation of long-term children, and if we have not been able to achieve that, we must correct the course in the event.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1518	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1522	Norwegian society is going to solve a lot of problems in the coming years. Strong population growth, older people, growing cities, other communities that need new growth impulses, immigration and climate change are key to some of the societal changes that we have to deal with. Exactly that understanding, it's a cross-political agreement. But as for how to build the Norway of the future, the Labour Party and the government parties separate layers. ‘We have wisely ensured that well-being benefits everyone’, it says in the speech of the throne. That's very well said. And it's worth remembering that we're there because we've done the big tasks together — through school and well-being, which are accessible to everyone — because values like justice, small differences and equal opportunities for everyone make it possible for more people to be involved and contribute to society, because cooperation between employers and employees, well-organised working life and a high level of equality have been important to ensure high levels of professional participation, and because we've invested in welfare, knowledge and infrastructure over tax cuts. When we continue to build the Norway of the future, with good schooling, good health care and worthy care for the elderly, our municipalities are equipped to do that job. The starting point for that is good. When, on the part of the Storting and the population, we make even higher demands on what municipalities will deliver – in terms of recruiting teachers, quality in kindergartens and good care for the elderly – thousands of local people and employees are ready to extend even further. But if they're going to succeed, they're going to have to have the Storting on the team. This is why the Workers' Party wants to maintain the Labour Environment Act as a law ensuring that employees have the opportunity to combine family life and working life, because this flexibility is so important for both women and men in order to participate in working life and to participate in and fulfil all the tasks that local authorities will have to perform in the coming years. The involvement of employees is essential to ensure strong professional environments and better services for citizens, including in municipalities. Therefore, the Workers' Party has called for a reform of competences in the municipalities to be designed, implemented and financed in close cooperation between municipalities, employees and the State. The principles of this reform shall be an expectation for employees to keep up to date on a professional basis and an expectation for municipalities as employers to facilitate professional development and closer contact between municipalities and research and education institutions. I am very pleased that this received support from a large majority before the summer holiday, and I am looking forward to the government following up this important work. When we have faced the right side with the need to choose between tax cuts or knowledge and well-being, we have been told that tax cuts will lead to growth and higher incomes to the community – it has been repeated here today. But the truth is that the tax cuts will be noticed in kindergartens, in schools and in care for the elderly first. It is not the members of the government, but the local politicians around the country who must make the painful priorities of the real world, as they must now do in Bergen, where the 'low school' has become a concept because of the decay of the school buildings, which stands in stark contrast to the government's promise to invest in knowledge, and where the City Council politicians from the Progress Party and the Right are dubiously asking for help from their party traps in government, but obviously have so little faith that they will be heard that they will now reintroduce the property tax, which they removed and celebrated with fireworks for a few years ago. It is good that the right side recognizes the wise steps taken to build today's welfare society, but it is a pity that they themselves make political choices that will lead to less justice and greater differences. If we are to meet the challenges of our time and build the country for the future, we must continue to prioritize knowledge and opportunities for all rather than unsocial tax cuts, and a fundamental prerequisite for a society where well-being benefits everyone is a good community economy. The municipal bill presented in the spring gives cause for concern, because the tasks cost more than the announced revenues cover, because the government has sent an unpaid orphanage bill to the municipalities, and because the tax failure that the municipalities are now experiencing for the first time in 10 years is not compensated. A large pension bill has also been announced. When the honourable Member has said earlier today that there is no cause for concern, I assume that this means that the signals from the municipalities have been taken seriously and corrected in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1543	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1546	In recent times, we have seen a working party that, on many important issues, is waving — in questions of energy and climate, in matters of tax policy and in matters of family policy. The representative Pedersen is one of those who have previously been affordablely clear – when she has clearly stated that the Workers' Party is against, for example. cash support. Then we hear a newly elected party leader in the Workers' Party who casts considerable doubt on whether this will still be the Labour Party's position. High-density is nice, but constant high-density is very often becoming unclear. Therefore, I wonder whether the representative Pedersen can clarify whether she has reversed her view of cash support, or whether this too – like for example. The OL opinions – are something that must be borne by the representative of Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1555	I am very pleased that in the Labour Party we have a party leader who travels important political debates in our time and points to many important dilemmas, among others. related to helping to provide the world with energy, while helping to find answers to one of the greatest challenges of our time, namely climate issues. I also fully agree with our party leader that the Workers' Party should continue to be in the front when it comes to designing a modern family policy. The programme of the Workers' Party is, of course, firm, but we must also think further – for years to come. What I have heard from our party leader is very clear, is the bet on two babysittings. Here, in the campaign last year, we heard a Right who promised ongoing child care admissions – bigger and better than what the Workers' Party voted on. When you came to the main hall and had power, you cut it. That's very regrettable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1562	When it comes to the community reform, it is a pleasure that the government party, the cooperation party and the Labour Party are a lot of things. The reform of competence and focusing on those added to it was one thing that Pedersen's representative addressed. There are some of us who say that they add is an important resource in the municipalities. We very much want to work together to increase their skills, and we also want to establish a professional environment rather than professionals. What got me to take a line was the representative's entrance to the local political arena in Bergen. She blames the sitting government for the challenges that the municipality of Bergen has. But when you go back a little bit, you see that a lot of the challenges Bergen has are just coming from the changes that the red-green government suggested. They took the corporate tax away from the municipalities. Bergen lost. They focused more on the frame and less on the tax. Bergen lost. They increase the bias between the tax revenues of the municipalities. Bergen lost. So my question to Pedersen is, when we now look at all of these relationships, will the Labour Party help to make the situation for Bergen better, or does one think that it was right to punish Bergen with the three changes that I made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1569	The Workers' Party will facilitate a good framework for providing good services to citizens, both for Bergen and for the other municipalities in the country, and therefore we will give priority to local economy over tax cuts. Then local politicians have to make their priorities within this space of action. I would like to give a very strong warning against what the Right Party and the Advance Party have announced on the Government Platform – namely that the tax share should be increased at the expense of income, and that municipalities should keep a higher share of tax revenue themselves. Only a few of the municipalities in Norway want to make a living. The great majority will lose massively. We have to solve the challenges of big cities in other ways. We have to stand up for both Bergen and Oslo, but we also have to stand up for the other municipalities in the country, so that there is a fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1576	The representative Pedersen and the undersigned can at least agree on one thing – that we think it is pleasing to the workers' party leaders who dare to think new. If we agree on the individual issue, we can consider it. But I'm actually interpreting Helga Pedersen to that in the future, as she said, you also have to think about family policy. So we're going to put that on the plus side also from the vice president of the Workers' Party. It was a post that praised municipal welfare, and that's good and good. What is a welfare society? Is there anything more than a welfare state? That's basically my question to Helga Pedersen, because I didn't hear anything about what I would call the third foundation, the non-profit and civil sector. So my question is, how does the Workers' Party view the non-profit sector as part of the welfare society that I believe we agree on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1583	I thank you for the question. I think that's a very good question. It is clear that a welfare society is more than a welfare state. The welfare community is about solving the big problems together. Then we have to have a redistributive state that ensures revenue to the community, and that can distribute goods fairly. But it is also about stimulating society as such for action, and there is a very important role for the voluntary sector and non-profit actors. That is why I would also warn against the commercialisation of basic welfare services that it seems today's government stands for. If everything is to be put out for profit, not only does the community lose, then the ideal actors also lose their ability to participate and contribute. It will be a very regrettable development. There I hope that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party can stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1588	Swäl if the Workers' Party does not have as much investment in the local economy as it does, we agree on many things. The representative Pedersen said in his post that she was concerned that we had to solve, among other things. the challenges of metropolitan cities. That's what SV agrees with. We also agree that this must be done within a system of allocating revenue between those municipalities with high incomes and those with low incomes. For this we have, among other things: used both big city and growth municipality grants. In the case of them, SV and the Workers' Party separate some layers, because SV believes that we should add the subsidies to the local economy, while the Workers' Party's solution is first to withdraw the money from all the municipalities and then distribute them to the municipalities of growth. This means that some of the municipalities that are struggling with removal and high costs have to be involved in paying for the bet. Could the Workers' Party consider assessing SV's solution – namely to add this money to the framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1593	Now I'm going to be careful to get into the technicalities. I am absolutely sure that the Workers' Party and SV together with other good friends here at Stortinget can agree on exactly that if we agree on the general principles. And the general principles that I see as the Workers' Party and the SV agree are that we need to facilitate equal opportunities in both the big cities and district Norway. Different instruments are then required in the big cities and districts. So let's get together about it, try to get a majority in this room for it, because we see that there are strong forces – among other things. represented by the government – which wants a completely different development with centralisation in focus. It'll be a shame. Today, Norway is built on the idea that the city and the country go hand in hand. We have to make sure that you can still complement each other there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1598	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1602	At the outset, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the two Norwegian researchers May-Britt and Edvard Moser on the Nobel Prize in Medicine. It's amazing. Then to today's debate. In addition to the work on major international issues, such as climate, poverty, war and conflict, and the efforts to ensure that the public sector and our welfare systems meet tomorrow's needs, the government announces that it will give priority to value creation. It's because we have to make sure that our well-being has solid funding, and that the individual has a safe job to do. To ensure our future well-being, we depend on a school that facilitates more learning. We need universities, colleges and colleges that deliver relevant quality education, and we need research environments that can help simplify, renew and improve both the business and the public sector. The government recently presented its strategy on how students should learn more. It's about creating a society where the differences are no greater than each one's being able to shape his or her own future according to his or her abilities, efforts and interests. An important part of this strategy is to invest more in the teacher. With the Teacher Lift, the government will deliver on one of its most important election campaigns — that Norwegian school students will learn more. Many of the interventions have been requested by teachers themselves, the principals, school owners and the business community. Skilled teachers are essential for the professional benefits of the students and the ability to complete secondary education. The government trusts the teachers as professionals. From that point of view, the government will invest even more in their skills and work to make the profession more attractive. The teacher's vow means that we're tightening up the requirements to become a teacher, and to be allowed to be a teacher. Children shall be taught by teachers who have the necessary professional competence. The government is making the investments to enable all teachers to meet the competence requirements we are now making. All students deserve to be met by a professionally qualified teacher. In particular, this is important in the fields of mathematics, English and Norwegian. Today, one in five math teachers is missing, one in seven Norwegian teachers and more than 40 pst. by English teachers, immersion in the subjects in which they teach. The fact that the teaching profession is not attractive enough, and that some teachers lack competence in the subjects in which they teach, is not the teacher's fault, but the result that politicians for many decades have not prioritised knowledge in school high enough. Therefore, the government is carrying out this teaching promise. What the government wants to do is: the establishment of a practical five-year teacher training programme strengthens the admission requirements for training, requiring teachers to have depression in order to teach in the most central disciplines to strengthen the commitment to continuing training to establish pilots in order to develop more career paths in school; The government will also develop vocational training through offensive measures, such as increased apprenticeship grants, alternative training courses and strengthening the possibility for professionals to switch between school and business training. Unfortunately, it is in vocational training that we see the largest numbers of drop-outs, and we know that those who do not complete secondary education are those who are most at risk of being out of work later. The goal is for more people to implement. In addition, the government will strengthen the technical vocational schools and reintroduce state funding for the vocational schools. The government has ambitious objectives in its knowledge policy, and in concrete terms the government will present a long-term plan for research and higher education. The government will also provide a key message on quality and structure in higher education. This means that in the year ahead, we are facing important debates on how to set up our knowledge policy to ensure value creation through safe jobs, which is the whole foundation of our well-being. Making sure people have a safe job to do also means that more than what we see today will have the opportunity to get into the workplace. Today more than 650,000 people are out of work in whole or in part. This means that we need to have a lower threshold in the workplace, so that more people have the opportunity to gain the relevant experience. These include: That is why we want to adjust the Working Environment Act. We are doing well to deliver what we promised in the election campaign last year. The Right-Fremskritsparti-government has already highlighted itself in knowledge through a strong commitment to the continuing training of teachers, through a reinforced effort for the university and higher education sectors and through a targeted focus on research and research infrastructures. The languages of the throne, which is the basis for the debate here today, show that the government will continue this effort, and that means that we are seeing a policy that helps to equip Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1648	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1651	Tuesday last week, perhaps rather, the government launched the Teacher Lift. There was great expectation, especially after the strike in the fall. I must say, the relaunch was a disappointment. There were few concrete promises, and many of them are pushed out in the next big period – in fact also into it afterwards. It is good that there is a broad consensus on strengthening the further training of teachers, the scheme established by the Stoltenberg government. In addition to this, I wonder: What measures in the government's educational promise will give teachers better time and opportunities to support each student here and now, and not only in three to ten years' time? I am looking for concrete measures – not visions, working groups and investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1658	Thank you for the question. It is sad that the Workers' Party's representative is disappointed with the teacher's promise that we presented. In fact, it contains a number of responses that teachers, school owners and several others have been asking for for a number of years. These are concrete actions we are launching. Among other things, we need to: have increased requirements for admission to teacher training. We're going to turn teacher training into a five-year master's degree, which we think will give us teachers with deeper professional competence. First of all, we need to strengthen our competence in the fields of mathematics, English and Norwegian. We will continue the great pressure on continuing training that we entered in the first budget we had. I believe that this is quite concrete action, which I am pleased to follow in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1667	I would like to start by saying that I think it is brilliant that the potter's representative Vinje praises the Moser researchers, who have received a very high price today. I hope – and I am quite sure – that will inspire a lot of researchers around Norway by the fact that there is excellent research going on, and that it is wise to invest in research, as the government has also mentioned, both in the mainstream and in the debate that is taking place today. Then I have the following questions as a follow-up to it: What we know from last year's budget – now we will know more about next year's budget later this week – is that one research area has been cut, a research fund that shows that works well in areas that are very important: what is about mobilising regional innovation, delivering quality, increasing business research and mobilising public research – and I am talking about the regional research funds. Why do you cut into something that we know works?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1674	The big answer to this is that the total funding for research increased considerably with the new government – half a billion dollars. Then we have also made some priorities in the budget that was put forward, which is the current year's adopted budget, and it is about strengthening, among other things. The industry's ability to contribute to research, it's about strengthening the TaxFUNN, it's also about basic funding for the university, and it's about some selected infrastructure measures that we wanted to give priority to. So it's just about prioritizing, and the priorities that we put in that budget, I think are very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1679	I think everyone in this room has a common desire to make the school better and solve the challenges that we see in school today. The right is to be commended for raising teachers, but when we look at what is in the so-called Teacher Lift, it is largely about future requirements for teachers. There has been little listening to what the teachers themselves say about the need to eliminate time thieves, about the need to have a framework around the exercise of the teaching profession, which makes it possible to do a good job in the classroom, and about the problem of teachers having too little time for each student. Does the Right believe that teachers are the main problem in Norwegian school today? Is there too little competence among teachers, which is the main reason why too many people fall away from, that more and more people need special education, and that too many people leave primary school as functional illiterates?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1686	First of all, I would say that it is not the teachers who are the problem; it is the teachers who are the key to our success. Because we know that the single factor in school that is most important for students to learn a lot is good teachers, and that's why we want to ally ourselves with the teachers and bet on them even more in the future. So I don't feel, as the representative says, that this is not something that the teachers themselves want, by the principals and school owners and even the business community. In the teacher's promise that we have presented, there are many measures that have been requested by all of these that I mentioned. In the case of time thieves, it's not like we're not working on it. It's a separate sample that works to eliminate the time thieves in school, and it's a very important work, too, so that we take care of the unnecessary work done at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1695	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the government will implement the decisions for the vocational training that the Stortinget adopted last year. I think it's great that you follow it up. In the census, the government also warns that ‘Norwegian students will learn more’. It should have been said, we think, in the long term, as Bjørnø was. In the post-school section, we read the following: ‘Government will simplify regulation and further develop digital solutions so that business can spend less time on bureaucracy and more on value creation.’ That's probably some of what the teachers have been asking for, too. So this is business -- at least I guess it's private. I wonder if the representative can inform the Storting about – and, if so, in what way – they want to simplify the legislation and give teachers the opportunity to spend more time on value creation and less time on bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1711	Thank you for that. I mean I answered that question instead. It is a separate sample that goes through the school to look at the time thieves who are in school. Although it was not mentioned particularly in a throne speech, which is very compressed about selected things, I believe that it is well cared for. I fully agree that it is very important. Of course, we're as busy as everyone else that teachers should be teachers and concentrate on teaching students as much as possible. So I can assure you that we're going to help – to keep the pressure on removing the unnecessary time thieves that are in the teacher's everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1720	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1724	I thought speaking to the King was particularly good this year. I have, like many others, read throne speeches from previous years, and thought the year's version was good. I also noticed that the position of local democracy had got a solid place. As the leader of the municipal committee, I, of course, took the lead in recording what is being said about local democracy and the local reform. We are now facing twelve very exciting months for local democracy. In less than a year, it's municipal elections. People in elections are the top local policy body we have, and it is an important choice to make in the municipalities and municipalities of the country – about how local development should be. We are also faced with important debates in this Chamber. It is possible that the Constitutional Court will be attached to local democracy in the next 12 months. It will be an important question for local democracy to include it in our own constitution. So now the departments discuss what kind of tasks we can beneficially move down into the system, into the municipal sector. I hope that the local government sector will seize the opportunity when a message comes next spring about what tasks to move down to local democracy. I hope it's not just the departments that are looking at what they can give up, but also the offensive municipalities that are playing to us what they want to take over and what they think are better able to prioritize and solve on behalf of the inhabitants than the state and county levels. Most important of all is the municipal reform, which got good mention in the throne speech. Reform ideas have not been found in this room or in government offices. In fact, local politicians themselves have seen the reform of the municipality. Through their participation in the national meetings of most of the parties in this room, local politicians themselves have met up and made statements that there is a need for a community reform. Now, the biggest government is implementing the reform, which local politicians themselves have asked for, and which is needed in our country, as it is 50 years since the last time one sat down to look at the municipal divisions and municipal tasks in a large context. The background for implementing the municipal reform is not similar in Norway to that of Denmark, Finland and other countries – based on economics. We don't have the assumption that a person should do this to save money. Therefore, it is also wrong to compare our reform with reforms that have been seen in Europe, which have been saved because of the situation there. Our reform is based more on delegating tasks down to local democracy, and on creating municipalities that will have more tasks and solve more tasks for their inhabitants. The background is also that we want to create a good, robust professional environment, which ensures that those who need the most community are accepted by a professional community that can meet the challenge, and not just by a professional. One is very vulnerable to the task portfolio of Norwegian municipalities. There are a lot of municipalities talking about professionals and not the professional community. We want to do something about it, so that all citizens can be sure that they can solve their primary and greatest needs for a professional environment. Now, a few months after the Storting gave a broad agreement to implement and start the process, I want to commend the local politicians for taking this offensively. One has not entered the situation and considered it a trick, but one considers this a possibility to create better municipalities for the inhabitants. The local politicians must be commended for that. I also want to pink the statesmen. I never thought I'd say it from this pulpit, but the statesmen have taken good care of the reform, and are good local ties that ensure that the reform is well followed up in the municipalities of the country. When we talk about the number of thrones, it's like a councillor said before: one can raise your eyes a little bit. If we see it in a local democracy perspective, we are doing well in Norway. Although we discuss state governance towards the local government sector, we are one of the societies that have delegated the most to local politicians, who have great confidence in local democracy, and who have endowed their municipalities with great tasks and given them immense relevance. But it doesn't take us away that we have to work every single day to recognize local democracy and work for it to get that place in the administration that it eats, as an important body for the inhabitants of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1752	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1755	There were many fine words about local democracy and well-being out in the whole country. But I miss the perspective that we in the Workers' Party believe is quite important, namely that the municipalities have the money to solve the problems they're assigned to. It's in the municipalities we're only now going to notice that tax cuts mean welfare cuts. In addition to under-financing of municipalities next year, there will be a major tax failure for the first time in 10 years. In the past, the Progress Party in opposition has been quite clear that the State must compensate for the tax failure. Then the Progress Party took in the government offices, and when the municipal proposition was presented earlier this year, the Progress Party made a complete turnaround. The promise of compensation for the tax failure disappeared directly into the blue. Then I would like to ask the representative Njåstad: why is it that the concern of the Progress Party for municipalities is so much greater in opposition than in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1764	The party's idea for the local economy is at least as great in position as in the opposition. We have been able to strengthen the local economy, and we also benefit from it every day now when we are in the government position. Now, the state budget will not come until Wednesday, but we know a lot about the municipal proposition, and the growth that is announced will, however – when a deduction from retirement and demography – exceed the growth that was in the last year the red-green ones made their municipal proposition. So it's going to be directly wrong to say that this government has a different policy when it comes to funding the local government sector. A question about the Progress Party also changes its view on compensating for tax failures when they went from opposition to position. What's at least equally interesting is that it's the Workers' Party that's changed course here. There a formerly never compensated for tax failure when one has been in position, one suddenly thinks that one should compensate for the tax failure – when one is in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1771	An important part of regional policy is about transport. The Christian People's Party has great expectations of the government's policy on culture. We now have a new majority who will really bet on transportation, and unlike the red-greens, it is now also willing to think new. It is time for reforms. We have to build smarter, faster and more coherent, we have to get more out of each heads. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has great expectations of the new road company and the investment company that will be in place. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that these new companies provide better roads also in the districts, not only in or between the big cities. How will the Progress Party ensure that the reform work currently under way provides better standards for roads throughout the country, and especially where public transport is not a good alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1780	I almost had to pinch my arm now. Has it really happened that even more people are asking for the progress of the road company that has been our policy alone for years? It seems to me that I am unlikely to be able to experience. This road transport company that the government is now working on how to implement, we are also impatient after, because now we are finally going to try our own policies. Of course, the idea is that the road company should build roads smarter and better across the country, and that the road company should become the big difference in road construction before and after the Progress Party entered the government offices. I can't answer more specifically than that I share ill-fathomedly, and I particularly care that more people with us are impatient after getting the road company in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1787	In the Progress Party's principal programme, there are strong formulations on local self-government and the use of referendums. It says, among other things:\t\t You can ‘The inhabitants of a municipality have the right to direct themselves in matters which are primarily of local interest [[...]] In addition, it says: ‘The Party of Foreign Ministers sees weaknesses in our democracy. It is therefore appropriate to establish a system in which the electorate, by means of referendums, is given direct decision-making rights.’.» In the implementation of the municipal reform, the government recommends, and hence the Progress Party, to reduce the use of referendums. The provisions of the partitioning Act on the consultation of citizens' views on the issue of community mergers consider that the Progress Party can be ensured by a population quiz. The central party believes that referendum on such an important question is a matter of course. Why does the Progress Party believe that referendums are not important in a question relating to the bundling of municipalities, while increasing the use of referendums in other local policy issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1806	Popularisation is important and has been an important principle for the Progress Party for a long time. In addition to elections, people should also be able to have a direct impact on other important issues. The reason why we have said in the proposition that we want more than just public opinion attached to the municipal reform is that, at this stage, where a person is now investigating and assessing the situation, it may be useful to get more than just a yes/no response from the inhabitants. They can be taken on board by means of different measures, including: The built-in survey, which the ministry has given municipalities a chance to use. However, municipalities are free to use it, whether they are going to perform ordinary folklore at an early stage or at a later stage, and whether they are going to involve the inhabitants in other ways. The only thing we've been very clear about is that the inhabitants have to be involved in the process. We're just as happy in the referendums as before, but when it comes to the municipal reform, we've said in our program that one in some cases must be willing to get through to get what you want. I've made that concrete in the municipal proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1815	The possible population surveys to be carried out in the context of community mergers should be such that everyone can participate. Now we have seen several places where there have been such investigations, that e.g. people over 75 years of age or over 80 years of age have been excluded. It's just age discrimination. It has been very quiet from the Progress Party in that matter, and I have asked the Minister of State and received an answer today. I asked, will the government accept such age discrimination in these surveys? The answer is yes. You don't intend to go into it. So it has to be free for municipalities to choose which parts of the population they want to ask, and people like that. is over 80 years old, it must therefore be possible to discriminate against participation in these population surveys or quizzes or what the Progress Party will now have. I have to ask the chairman of the committee: is it really such that the Progress Party intends to sit down and see that people over 80 years of age are not allowed to participate and say their opinion, and that it is not to be ensured nationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1824	I have not read the answer from the Council of State that came today on that question, but I would like to think that it is about the fact that there is no legal secret at present to ensure that all age groups are allowed to participate in such an investigation. In the same way as Andersen's representative, I am a little surprised that the municipality locally chooses to carry out a community study that does not include all groups. I think it's important to bring everyone, including the elderly, but also the young, it's important to bring them. If we're going to override this through changes in promises and stuff like that, I'm not sure, but to give a clear recommendation that it's important that municipalities listen to all their inhabitants in this process and take all of them on board, will be a clear signal from my side that municipalities should not omit any group based on age, but make sure that the most possible, young and old, can participate and say their opinion about their community, relate to this community reform work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1832	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1835	I'm glad I'm now going to be allowed to talk about those over 80. The electric wave is outlined as one of the greatest challenges in the future – a challenge that will require enormous resources. But older people are also a group that gives our society huge resources. Older people are as diverse a group as younger and middle-aged people. Older people over 80 years of age experience an ever better health, and that's amazing. We also see that medical development results in both older and younger people living longer with chronic diseases, and they also survive serious diagnosis more than before. Many older people also have more complex and complex diagnoses than we've been able to deal with before. The Christian People's Party is committed to securing the elderly a worthy old age. The sickest older ones need the service they need. The guarantee must be filled in with the necessary funds for the municipalities. When will the guarantee of dignity be not only words, but also action? The Christian People's Party will ensure that the guarantee of the dignity of the care of the elderly is fulfilled in all municipalities, and that the guarantee includes the statutory right to health care in case of medical needs. The need today is far greater than the availability of space. The previous government promised 12,000 seats and got to 567 seats. That's not the number they went to elections on, and they didn't comply. Year after year, the Christian People's Party has proposed more funds and greater government responsibility in funding without receiving the support of the Red-Greens. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential that the new government now delivers on a different level in the care of the elderly. The point must not be to get as many hospitals as possible, but lucky places for those in need of medical care. The Christian People's Party has expectations for the budget and that it will have a significant older profile. We need to take action to help provide a decent care for the elderly. Although we've come a long way in research, we also know that the end of life is actually an important part of living. The Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening the quality of life and dignity of serious sick and dying. Today, there are a lot of people who don't get the care they need. Many people experience being sent between hospitals and municipalities over and over again. Patients who are extra ill are transported either home from hospital or to hospital. A good support device is needed in the municipality to avoid repeated and pointless hospitalisation. We must have a seamless patient treatment process at the end of life. How we're able to care for the most vulnerable among us is the best temperature meter of heart heat in a society. The debate on active death aid will press ahead at regular intervals. The Christian People’s Party believes that an overall care for the seriously ill and dying is the answer to a worthy care for the elderly, not death aid. It is a political task to ensure that the sick and the dying receive a dignified care. Municipalities need to be secured with the necessary means, and we need to increase our competence throughout the healthcare system – both at home, in hospitals and in hospitals. Health professionals must dry to sit next to the bed and not just sit down. And here it's about more than warm hands, here it's about knowledge and experience. Finally, I want to focus on a large group of our citizens that we've focused little on, and it's actually women, and their health. It's been years since we've had an investigation into female health and its place in our healthcare system. And here the Christian People's Party will stand on the barricades. We need to take public responsibility to ensure that we have research good enough and treatment good enough. Why is it that more women than men today die of heart attack? Well, because we don't know symptoms well enough. We don't understand what's wrong with women when they get in, and they're often accused of having mental challenges more than somatic. Norway needs a new NOW. The centre party has been involved and arranged for it. The Christian People's Party will stand behind, and we hope to receive great support to focus on research and women's health.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1848	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1851	Every day, 300,000 children are delivered in Norwegian kindergartens. We know that with proper and good continuing education, including for this group, we can detect traumatic conditions for the children and create a better everyday life. On 21 May, the representative of Bollestad's party colleague, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, went out and ran against the Minister of Knowledge because there was a lack of large sums of money to provide enough nursery places and to be able to retrain and have good enough staff. Large surveys in 2013 showed that each other kindergarten has broken the law on crew density, on having enough pedagogues, on clean-up, and on knowledge. Will the Christian People's Party be involved in this round of budgets to ensure that a crown is not spent on tax cuts until all children who need it have had kindergartens, and before we can say that all kindergartens are safe and good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1858	The Christian People's Party is incredibly concerned with the quality of kindergarten. The Christian People's Party wants a crew norm in the kindergarten. The Christian People's Party wants more quality into kindergarten, both in the form of preschool teachers, health professionals and other competent personnel, so that we can discover things early, help the kids earlier, and actually get something back on the other side, in the form of resources, primarily on the human side. In the Christian People's Party we will be involved and ensure good quality in kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1863	Thank you very much for your answer. One of the main reasons for several of us to join the policy was precisely the desire to give all children equal opportunities. The representative’s party leader has addressed the problems and challenges of child poverty earlier today. There are also major challenges with internal urban and internal issues in municipalities, where it has something to say about who your parents are, and where you grow up, which my party, the Workers' Party, and I seem to be very serious. I have also experienced that the Christian People's Party seems to have been serious and has worked against it in the past. Last year the government presented cut in one of the area bets, cut in Groruddalssatsingen. We have area stakes especially in Bergen, Oslo, Trondheim, Drammen, Fredrikstad and Sarpsborg, because we know that there are great differences in living conditions and opportunities. Will the Christian People's Party contribute to an increased commitment to territorial promises and equal opportunities for all children in the future state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1870	If there's something Christian People's Party has been busy about, it's actually securing all the kids the same opportunities, both here at home and out. It's a saying that says, "All the fat floats together." When we make sauce, it gets like that. For kids, it's actually the opposite. If they have parents who have major challenges, the kids are struggling. The Christian People's Party is the first to stand on the barricades to look at measures for them and to look at kindergarten prices for them. We're willing to look at babysitting in view of these kids as well. Then you and I and those who have more must be willing to share.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1875	Earlier this year we saw that the Christian People's Party joined forces with the government party when it came to hospitalization. This was especially at the forefront as the Christian People's Party would not be involved in postponing hospital closures in Telemark before the summer, which created great frustration and insecurity in the community. Sickhouse, police and fire services are important for people to be safe. In this context, subsidiarity and locality are crucial. It's about structure, and the blue-blue government is going to go hard on big structural changes in the future. Is the representative of Bollestad more comfortable working with the blue parties in these matters than with the red-green ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1880	First, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I want to say that this matter in Tin was a difficult matter for the Christian People's Party, because we actually want to ensure good services across our country. We want a good primary health service, we want a good emergency preparedness and prehospital services, and we want good and safe hospitals of good quality. When the Christian People's Party nevertheless did as we did in that matter, it was because the Christian People's Party was busy with two things when it was about Telemark. One was to strengthen Telemark Hospital in total in Health South-East, both in position and in capacity. The second was to secure means of conversion to Tin, so that one can keep the competent people who work there, that one can actually ensure better primary health care and emergency care. Then it's not good enough just to bring an ambulance, it's about the total emergency preparedness for internal parts of Telemark and Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1885	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1888	We humans are vulnerable in some situations. If we are exposed to danger or experience something that makes us unsafe, it is important that help is close. It's about getting rocked fast when the accident is out, and getting help in time when a crisis occurs. It gives security if we have the police and a fire department in the vicinity, where there are competent people with local knowledge. This is a tree of our society. For the Central Party, local preparedness will be one of the most important issues in the future. What kind of action can politicians take to improve the preparedness of the police and fire services? What is quite certain is that this is about tasks that are and should be public and that market economy thinking is not relevant in this context. We in the Center Party are of the clear opinion that readiness and public services to make people safe are not areas where one should save money. If there is something that characterizes the sitting government, there is an exaggerated belief that major structural changes will solve all kinds of social problems. Examples of this are agriculture, hayballs, the municipal sector and the police. There is a serious error ending that results in the centralization link to the Right and the Progress Party. If you run counter to what you want to achieve, large units can lead to poorer services per penny, more bureaucracy and less control. We must learn from the reforms we have been through, and few can simply say that health reform has been a success. Technology is constantly developing. At a time of great centralisation, it is important to remember that new technologies and new tools can facilitate the opposite, namely decentralisation. One can reinforce services that are performed locally. Something that a former person had to sit in an office to do can now be done in service cars or out on the job. The central part of the game hopes the Stortning will help you make use of these possibilities. Let's not put any resemblance between modernisation and centralization, but see that modernisation can also be decentralization. Structural debates are many of them. The blue government is abnormally busy merging. In all the structural debates, there is something that unfortunately is too little emphasis on, and that is the value of local knowledge. In major events such as the fires in Flatanger and Lærdal earlier this year, just local knowledge was a decisive factor in ensuring that the magnitude of the tragedy did not increase. The fact that the fire crew knows where the houses are, what houses it carries people and knows the locals, is important. When major events occur, one also depends on volunteering. Local anchoring is often the motivation for voluntary action. In the fire study, it is proposed to drastically reduce the number of fire services. It is proposed to reduce the number of emergency centres so that each centre has at least 400000 inhabitants. With the vast and croaky country we have, it will mean that the districts of the most difficult geography are those who pay the price of subdued local knowledge. When it comes to the police, we're not going to underestimate what it has to say to have a lieutenant who knows his community. It can contribute to rapid response times, under the command of politicians to show the will and ability to enable the police to have people at work. Near police means a lot to local communities, both in towns and cities. The fact that people should feel safe throughout the country is important for people to be able to live in the whole country. The fact that the police are in place in the community enables them to prevent and detect crime at an earlier time. A centralised ‘repair police’ could only be present when the damage has already occurred. Instead of imagining how many loner offices we can lay down, we in the Center Party are busy figuring out how we can get them to do their job in the best possible way. In this context, we are critical that today the police are being measured on how many cases you get in, while there is no reference to what you can prevent. Statistics do not always give you the best picture. For the Center Party, it's important that we as a society renew ourselves, that we think about new ideas, find smarter ways to work on, and that we map what will be demanding in the future. This does not mean that we swallow the claim that bigger is always better, and that does not mean that we accept a massive aggregation of e.g. police district and county office. The willingness to act must not end with a broken down service that works. Since we humans are vulnerable in some situations, our readiness is not just something we're going to experiment with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1915	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1918	I'm going to raise a question in a completely different area, an area where there is actually a need for very large structural changes. We from the Right are busy building roads and railways throughout the country, and that is what we follow up in the annual budgets and in the national transport plan. At the same time, we know that it is not enough to meet the national transport plan in dollars, it must also be fulfilled in the number of projects. This is why the government has also launched several organisational processes to ensure a faster and more efficient development of road and track throughout the country. One of the important steps towards meeting population growth in our largest cities is an increased state co-financing of collective solutions. It is important to ensure good accessibility, but not least to meet environmental challenges. I have registered that the Workers' Party has recognised that after eight years in government they have not done enough to finance the collective effort in the largest cities. My question to the representative of Klinge is: Has the Senterpartie come to the same recognition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1925	What we're very proud of is all we actually got done over the eight years, and the promise that we made that also the sitting government should do, because we made a new, ambitious transport plan. It's absolutely decisive that in the four years we're in now, it's also followed up with great promises. When it comes to the big cities, I'm not going to sit here and tell you what we're going to do about the budget right now, just as the place isn't going to do it, but the big cities are unlikely to be important, and it's important that we have a commitment to transportation across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1932	I think it is very good that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been very clear on the need for a good preparedness, a visible preparedness and a local preparedness. I believe that a quite overall expansion agrees that having a safe, good preparedness is one of the most important things we as a society and for which big business can facilitate. Unfortunately, we have seen major shortcomings in our preparedness. Unfortunately, with the experience of July 22nd and the report that came later, we have seen what major shortcomings it was. That is why I am very pleased that we now have a Minister of Justice and a government that is working very hard to put in place new reforms and to respond to the challenges posed by the Gjørv Commission. I look forward to good cooperation with the Central Party on these reforms that are coming, and to putting in place good, new solutions. But the central party put in government and had responsibility for a long time after the tragic situation we were in. What is the representative, Klinge, at least satisfied with what he or she might or may not have done to strengthen preparedness in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1941	The representative blade is completely empty!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1946	It was a little unusual, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1951	It's Klinge who's got the word, Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1954	The question of guessing what we're least happy with, I just have a problem with now, because I know that we're making an incredibly important presentation. But I think everyone in this room is some that we can always do more. When it came to what the representative of Leirstein was actually in on 22 July, it is obvious that there was much that should have been done, both under the previous government and under the governments before. That's exactly why it's so important that we use the experience we got after the rounds we had, to make a lot better grip in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1959	The representative Klinge was a lot in terms of the need for local knowledge. She showed, among other things: to the need in many local settings for the function of a gentleman, which has been important, and which is certainly very important for many. But we are in a situation today that even if you have so-called – I say so-called – canned offices, they are in many places not open. They are closed or have a very limited office time. Then at least I'm worried that many will experience a false security. Is it not true that the representative Klinge agrees that the most important thing is that the police are present – and not necessarily whether it is called a lieutenant or a police patrol?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1964	Here we're in on something significant. The center party is busy that we're going to have a local janitor's office. We mean there's something much more in it than just that there's an office that people can visit. It is also obvious that we should have a lenght man's office, it must be manned. One must have good security and patrol services in the district that make it work. So it's important to get – I think – that the government is now adding up, as it's signaled, is a massive closure of the Länsmannskontoret. Then those who live at these offices will move closer to where they are going to work. It will then be lost for people locally – a losing communities around for police officers who are now part of the community, as football trainers, as choir members, etc. It is an important part of that prevention – I think – that the police can operate, that they know their community. If the Progress Party gets what they want, it will be weighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1973	The last time I checked, the government had not submitted proposals for a new police reform. It is the government and investigators who have done so far. The government has a process to bring about a police reform before Christmas. Then we'll see if the claims of the representative Klinge lead to correctness. I doubt that very much. I'm very happy that last year we got a tremendous increase in the number of new police posts, and that we get a corresponding rise this year. It'll be incredibly important. Is it the case that the Central Party wants to have a debate and looks forward to contributing constructively to a new police reform, or is it completely locked up in the games where the Central Party has already concluded, which relate to the number of police districts and some other aspects of the police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1981	No, the centre party is not locked in any way. We're concerned about making changes where it makes sense to make changes. Massive aggregations are very rarely the solution to demanding challenges. When it's for the police, it's for the most part true. One should be unlikely to be careful to tear down what works. One gets to build on what's good. The government has not made any concrete – that is quite right – how many police districts or county offices there should be, but it is very clear in the cards that there is a great centralisation. It'll warn the Center Party against that, precisely because we're busy with the local police, a police that knows people, and that people know. There's a lot of strength in our local police force. We can't keep it to ourselves if we cut up to 150 LEN's office, which can be in the cards to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1988	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e1991	It's great to be able to start a post as head of the Storting Research Committee to congratulate May-Britt and Edvard Moser on Norway's first Nobel Prize in Medicine. Their research not only monitors new and unknown countries about how our brain works, but may lay the foundation for understanding and treating diseases like Alzheimer's. They are a tremendous inspiration for all those who are engaged in research in Norway, and show that long-term commitment to new knowledge that does not immediately have an application can be what is most important to make our lives better and bring the world forward. We need a lot of that knowledge to fill the extra years we add to our lives with quality of life and health, to provide a growing population with energy, food, enough resources for a good standard of living, and to solve the enormous challenges of climate problems. More and better knowledge is the way to the future. For this reason, the Stoltenberg Government provided for a significant increase in the allocation of knowledge for children and young people. For this reason, we employed several teachers, renewed teacher training, received several teaching hours, made demands for admission to teacher training, strengthened the school health service, refurbished school buildings and provided general education after completion of vocational training. One of our decisions was to have a binding long-term research plan. The government has promised to bring the government budget. We look forward to that, but I want to warn the government on one point. In order to receive the Workers' Party's support, the plan must be concrete and binding – as an NTP, as a defence plan, as a psychiatry plan, and at least as concretely as the Right Party and the Progress Party must provide their richest sponsors in tax cuts. The Labour Party has invited the Right and the Advance Party to a broad compromise in school policy. We know what creates a good school, what makes people complete and succeed. We should go together to do what works. There is a broad consensus about continuing to make good teachers even better. We introduced immersion requirements for new teachers, and we support the extension of this requirement to all teachers. That this is not fully phased in until 2029, is not precisely because of the power of action, but the direction is correct. The Stoltenberg government increased the appropriations for continuing training for teachers by 1 000 pst. after we took over after Clement and Right. We went to the election that we would spend 1 billion. kr on continuing education in the year, and we are happy that the government now seems to have the same ambition. But the government makes the impression that the main problem in Norwegian school is that today's teachers have too little knowledge. The main problem in Norwegian school is that today's teachers have too little time, and here the government's so-called teacher lift has no contribution to make the situation better. This is why the Workers' Party will take a number of initiatives that can give teachers more time to help each student: reduced documentation and reports and bureaucracy requirements; more support functions that can relieve the teacher; enhanced school health services that allow everyone to get help; early effort; so that the teacher has time to see the individual student and enough money to hire more teachers, not fewer. The last point is very important. Thus, if school owners, municipalities and counties have to cut their budgets, there is little use of earmarked government funds for continuing education or school health services. Now we are talking about municipalities that, due to lack of coverage from the government to statutory kindergartens, lower tax receipts or changed distribution key, are facing severe cuts. That's the opposite of school bet. The municipalities are responsible for recruiting teachers. It is those who provide most of the continuing education. They're the ones who make sure there's enough people to see the individuals. They're the ones who care for school health, they're the ones who clean up the school buildings. So if you put tax cuts in front of the local economy, if you put the richest ones in front of the children, then the result is. In that case, it will not be because we lack money. No government has had more money to spend than the government of Solberg, but that is because they put other things, especially tax cuts, higher. For the Workers' Party, there is hardly any task that is more important than ensuring that all children receive a good education in a good school and a good start to life. For us, it is more important to acquire knowledge to solve the big questions of the future. That's why we want to put in the opposition, as in position, the focus on knowledge, education and research ahead of tax cuts for a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2017	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2020	The government's policy is based on a robust police force capable of meeting tomorrow's crime challenges. Gahr Støre showed in his speech that the Workers' Party sees itself as a reform of the police. All reforms are difficult to implement, not least if there is no broad political consensus about them. The government therefore invited all political parties on the Stortinget to participate in discussions in the context of its work on this reform. The working party thanked no, they would wait and see. It can be interpreted as if the Workers' Party is also sitting on the fence in this case, waiting for the way the wind blows, instead of being in and creating the political weight needed to get a police officer who is delivering on tomorrow's crime challenges. I hope I'm wrong. But can the representative Giske explain why the Labour Party is absent from the work on police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2027	It's a description of reality that I don't know about at all. Our justice team has traveled country and beach to police districts, met both employees and management around the country and got good input into how the police of the future should be organised. I have also challenged the Minister of Justice for many debates. I don't think it's been a single preliminary. So if the government wants to take those debates, it is cordially welcome to it. I also record that the government is now largely considering all the police students that we have provided to be graduates, there are record numbers, so here it is the bet of the previous government, and we are going to participate in the discussion in the future. When you sit in government, you have to take responsibility for proposing reforms, you have to bring them to the Grand Duchy and get support from other parties. It is a fully-fledged parliamentary system. If you want us to take over those investigations, take over those submissions, submit the big messages, it's just to pass on the staf stick. We're ready to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2036	The working party and the representative Giske seem to be busy removing time thieves in school, and that's great. Time thieves in school have been a known problem for a long time. According to studies by the Education Association in 2011, the level of reporting under the red-greens increased, despite the fact that the problem was very well known. The government has already started work on eradicating time thieves and the aim is to limit reporting to what is necessary and to develop as effective reporting procedures as possible. A report is submitted on 1 December. The increase in reporting may indicate that the red-greens uncritically introduced several time thieves instead of reducing them. The question is then: what is the reason why you can trust that the Workers' Party will now really reduce and not increase the time thieves in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2043	The very largest time thief in Norwegian school will be a municipal economy that makes there become fewer teachers in school. There's a lot of teaching time from the students, so the basis for all the discussion about this must be that we have enough teachers compared to the number of students we have. Under our government, the number of teachers increased compared to the number of students. So it's true that teachers experience increased use of time. In particular, it was linked to the implementation of the knowledge promise of which a broad majority of the Storting formed – adopted under the Clamet, carried out under us. Then we all just have to look at the national tests, documentation requirements, the reports and the forms we have put in place. Kristin Halvorsen removed 50,000 reports for the teachers, but that's not enough, we have to keep going that way. What is disappointing is that in the plan presented by the Minister of Knowledge on a so-called teacher's vow, it is little or nothing that is about the very theme on which teachers are most concerned – to clear up time for teaching, to clear up time for students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2050	The representative Giske knows the non-profit sector very well. It is a wish from both the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party that the precisely ideal sector be involved as an important service provider, not least in the health and care sectors. Then we have had an offer regime – both under the previous government and under the government that is now – that has created significant challenges. We have seen that developments have been that precisely ideal service providers have gradually disappeared. My question to the representative Giske is whether he now, based on the experience he had when he put in government, sees whether there is a need for adjustments in this field, just to ensure that the non-profit sector is not squeezed out between commercial and public providers, who are both involved in pushing against the ideals, who contributed to very important and good services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2057	Both the representative Hareide and I belong to parties and movements that have a long and proud history of ideal work. The movement of workers, such as church organizations and the movement of laymen, has a long tradition of doing educational work, health work, school and many other things, not least helping. The ideal sector is incredibly valuable to a society. Therefore, the Workers' Party is clear that when we oppose the privatisation of public welfare services, it is about the commercial, large groups that enter and take the tasks of the public and make it more diverse for people. But those who are squandered the hardest by the commercial, when there are rigid tendering codes that decide, it's the private ideal providers. We've seen it in this city, and we've seen it elsewhere, that the organizations doubt because they can't compete with the commercial on the terms and conditions set by the tender. It's a shame, because it's depleting our society, but it also makes the service offer less diverse, so here we stand with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2062	As the representative Giske said, we have recorded that the government has presented what they call a teacher's vow. At the same time, there is an initial structural process, combined with a requirement for a five-year master's degree in higher education for teachers, which alerts a stronger centralisation of teacher training. As the representative Giske is familiar with, the red-green government took action to renew elementary school teacher education in the previous period. In order to train 9 000 non-qualified people and all those who will receive continuing training, it is important to have a decentralised offer, as the Central Party sees it. It is also important for the school owners. I wonder if the representative can express whether the Workers' Party shares the Central Party's concern about the future centralisation of teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2068	Firstly, I fully agree that good teacher training is alpha and omega. It is not enough to have long teacher training; the years you spend must also be used well. We are positive about extending teacher training to five years, but it is essential what the fifth year is used for. If it's going to be used to sit up at the university and write a master's degree, we're skeptical, if it's going to be used to learn in practice how to become a good class leader, how to do pedagogical work, how to work with students, we're positive. We also believe that it is necessary to reduce the number of responsible institutions for teacher training. It does not necessarily mean reducing the number of places where teachers are trained — many of which are actively decentralised — but strengthening the professional environment and concentrating efforts. That's also right. Now we record that the government is pushing five years of teacher training to the next major period. It is to start in 2017, the first teachers come out in 2022, so it is not in this area either, that it is spraying with power of action and implementation. So here, the Storting must also be active in pushing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2075	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2078	Norway is a different country in Europe. While our neighbouring countries are still struggling with high unemployment and low economic growth, we have low unemployment and good growth. But the status quo is never a guarantee. We must prepare for lower revenues from the oil and gas industry. We need to prepare for more competition from countries that have lower cost levels than we do. And we have to keep moving towards the low-emission society, not just talking about it as a utopia. That is why we need to use the space we now have – through the great values the petroleum industry has given us – to build Norway. The reason why we prioritise knowledge, infrastructure, lower taxes on work and ownership and investment in the green shift today is to cope with what is demanding, but necessary, while creating values for our country. Over a week ago, the government presented the Teacher Lift. We are already delivering on one of our most important promises from the election campaign. We give teachers what they want and deserve because nothing means more to students' learning than just good teachers. It was quite natural for us in such a promise to carry out the efforts of the times in continuing education. Students should learn more and teachers should be able to receive professional replenishment. This year, 1,500 new places of study have been created for teachers who want to be re-trained, but we're not satisfied yet, we're going on. We're betting on the school and the teachers today to get students to learn more in the future. We owe it to the skilled and newly trained workers of the future to facilitate an innovative labour market. A globalised world requires strong Norwegian jobs. The government is already well under way. We have lowered the income tax, reduced the property tax and removed the inheritance tax. At the same time, business itself knows best what business can create. But they can't do the job alone. For this reason, the government has significantly strengthened nutrient research, through, for example: User-driven innovation arena, SkattenFUNN, FORNY2020 and national establishment grant. All of these are examples of reliable schemes that contribute to research, development and innovation in business. We are prioritizing nutrient research today to create safe jobs for the future. The large housing and labour regions in the country will continue to grow significantly in the future. They all have a major common challenge: infrastructure. Creating good regions to live and work in requires good transport systems in place. Goods and people need to get back and forth quickly, and this must be done in an environmentally sustainable way. This is precisely why the government has increased the investment on the road, track and collective, increasing the rail budget compared to what the red-greens announced last autumn, saying that the state should take 50 pst. the cost of large collective development in the four largest cities, so that traffic growth can primarily be achieved collectively, and strengthened the road budget in order to prevent negative impacts on the environment and on business. We are building the country with good and environmentally friendly infrastructure today, making it easier to travel to and from work and send goods into and out of the country in the future. All of this will strengthen competitiveness and secure Norwegian jobs. But one challenge overshadows everyone else: the climate challenge. Last month the important report New Climate Economy was presented. We were so lucky to get an introduction to this former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at the debate at NRK1. I don't think Stoltenberg's drawings of linemen are enough to convince, for example. The representative Rasmus Hansson, who has at the heart of his climate policy the need for a brake on economic growth, that some growth is good climate policy. But I, on the other hand, saw these guys telling us something important about the future development. The report shows that growth and lower greenhouse gas emissions are not contrasts but interdependent. It's good news for all of us who face the low-emission society with optimism and believe that this transformation will give us many new opportunities. In this picture, good, land-efficient cities will be necessary. The report also told us that gas can be a bridge to the low-emission society if the right assumptions are in place – assumptions that Norway already has. It is about paying a price to emit greenhouse gases, as the oil and gas industry already does in Norway, having strict emission requirements and investing more in climate technologies. One of the main measures taken by the government to strengthen climate change reconciliation is to strengthen the climate technology fund. Twelve healthy billions will be allocated to the fund by 2017, and this is an important step forward. We are investing in the green shift today – to create a sustainable society in the future. Norway is well placed to meet the challenges ahead of us. We're optimistic. We're implementing the new ideas and the better solutions we went to the elections. That's how we make sure to make use of the good assumptions we have, to build the country for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2106	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2109	Before the weekend, it became known that Statoil was cancelling employees on a Norwegian base, and reductions were also expected on land. Before the weekend, we also learned that Aibel is canceling 230 in Haugesund. From before we know that it's approx. 250 people have to walk around the country, and there are several examples of this type. Strong growth under the red-green government, on the one hand, and reductions in maintenance projects and several contracts abroad, on the other hand, are presented as examples of, or reasons why, the situation is quite dramatic. The government's tightening-up of the law on perms is a clear reason why we are getting redundancies and not perms, so a challenge that government parties have to take seriously is how to deal with new, large-scale development projects when companies are building up their capacity and canceling professionals and engineers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2116	I think it's important to remember that what we see happening in the oil industry now, not necessarily is very unique. It's happened many times before. This is an industry that is cyclical by nature. It'll be recovery, and it'll be downhill. But of course, it feels dramatic for those who are now losing their jobs, or waiting to lose their jobs, but I think it also has an outside page that we should remember, and that's that this makes you free skills that are badly needed in other parts of that industry as well. When I was at ONS, for example, I met more people in the supplier industry who were very optimistic about the fact that they were finally going to get the skills, the engineers, that they've had a hard time getting hold of, because they've been in the oil companies. But, of course, we need to follow developments closely in the future, and that is not the way the law of permacy has always been rigid. It will move, depending on whether there are good times or bad times in the economy, so here, of course, the government will follow closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2123	Thank you for the reply from the representative. I support the views that it may be necessary for these engineers and professionals who are now losing their jobs, in other types of sectors. We hope that those jobs exist and are ready for them. Trade unions — both Joint and NITO — point out that part of the maintenance work that is now at risk of not being carried out due to redundancies may be safety-critical maintenance. It can be about health, the environment and safety. What is the representative's view on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2130	The industry itself has been very clear that what is now happening is not going to cost health, the environment and safety, and I assume that it does not. It's incredibly important. Norway is primarily concerned with having good offshore safety. We're going to keep doing that in the future. But what I think it's important to think about now is that the most important thing for this industry is that it is guaranteed good, safe, predictable framework conditions. It's been a little bit complicated lately. It helps, for example: not that the representative Gahr Støre, who has stood on this pulpit earlier today, was out in the summer and gave signals that the industry felt as unforeseeable. The industry needs peace. They are going to address the challenges they are facing now, but then the governments that play on the ground, which are engaged in predictable lines and policies, and that is what the government is going to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2135	The work of investigating the ferry-free E39 from Kristiansand to Trondheim is well under way. The trasé elections are an important part of this work, as are the draft elections for the major fjord crossing projects to make the E39 ferry-free within 20 years. In the autumn of 2011, the Swedish Road Administration presented draft selections for fjord-crossing projects along the E39 in More and Romesdal. Although a unanimous assembly, on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, asked that climate accounting for the different options be included in the KVU as part of the decision-making basis, this was hardly mentioned in the State Road Service investigations. In the Common Era, measures to meet climate challenges are referred to as an overall objective. At the same time, the government sends out a clear signal that the pace should be increased in road construction. This seems to most people to be a bit of a paradox. Does the representative Bru agree that the preparation of climate accounts should be included as a mandatory part of investigations that form the basis for decision-making on policy decisions on trasé and concept selection for major road projects in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2146	I think in the process of realising the low-carbon society in Norway, it's important to think about climate no matter what you talk about. This also applies, of course, in the transport sector. But when you talk about road development like, for example, Ferry-free E39, it is a climate action, because today we see long ferries and cars idle, they spew out CO2, and it is not a sustainable solution for the future. Having effective roads that ensure that goods and goods can be transported quickly where they are going is helping to cut emissions, and I believe it is a right policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2156	The representative Bru talked about the green shift. Part of the green shift is a bet on wind power. We've heard rumors that the government is now bowing down to the pressure and introducing a green write-off regime. It's a pleasure. One of the country's largest wind power projects is the Bjerkreim cluster, 420 MW, concession has been granted, and if we are now trying to prevent tax evasion in the form of depreciation, one would think that all the obstacles were cleared off the road. However, it turns out that due to the lack of capacity in Statnet, a network solution will not be in place until 2019. Here the apprentices are ready to take hold and to join the park. My question to the representative Bru is therefore: Is it okay for the Right that the builders have to wait online until 2019, or can we expect measures to speed this up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2164	I am very pleased with the signals we have seen, which may come into the state budget on Wednesday, which I think is very important and very good, and it has been one of the things that the industry itself has been asking for for for very many years, even in the years when the representative Pollestad's party was in government. So the fact that we're now gripping, something they didn't get, I'm very pleased with. What we're doing now, at best, can realise investments in this industry by up to 25 billion. kr. It's a significant rise. For me, wind farm development in Norway is not primarily about climate issues, it is about industrial development and not least about industrial development in the districts. Then we've done a job after we got into the government, getting ahead of concessional treatment, because mass has been waiting, also as a result of the policies of the previous government. We'll clean that up, and we'll continue to be offensive, and then I hope that we'll now realize a lot of good wind farm projects in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2171	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2174	«You campaign in poetry. Your government in prose is the former New York Governor Mario Cuomo famous for saying. A census is definitely prose and not poetry – not just the one we got this year, but most of the time. He has rarely touched his heart where he quickly goes through a series of themes, but the debate on the throne at its best can be the opportunity of the year to take the starting point in the big lines of the world – what characterises our time, what time is asking for. And if I were to sum up what I thought our time was asking for, in two words, there is more solidarity. The number of refugees, asylum seekers and internally displaced persons has for the first time since the Second World War passed 50 million. human this year, in 2014. Never before in my lifetime – or anyone I see here in the hall's lifetime, I believe – have we had more refugees in the world, refugees who demand our and others' solidarity, and who demand that efforts to prevent them from getting fewer are strengthened. While the world is making great progress, while people are fighting out of poverty, the differences between the poor and the rich are growing in many parts of the world, in rich countries and in very many poor countries. Big social differences are married to every society; it undermines trust and solidarity between people unless people go to the same school, live in the same area, have the same possibilities, feel like part of the same world. The generations that come after us will also particularly demand our solidarity for decades to come. The global climate challenge challenges us to convert Norway and other countries into zero-emission societies and to allow large parts of the world's fossil resources to lie unused. Less remarkable is the loss of natural diversity. Today, species are wiped out at a rate we haven't seen for about 70 million years, which will limit values, but also value creation massively. Our hundred years can be what permanently weakens man's resource base and our most important capital – natural capital – or it can be what we change prices. In 2014 and 2015, what is most important in the world must be the most important thing in Norway, and in our small country, it must strengthen communities, reduce differences, convert us into a country that leaves the climate and nature governing politics, and be solidarity with those who are on the run, governing Norwegian policy. This is why more solidarity is also going to be a review of SV's policy in the coming year. We want 2015 to be the year of Norway's extraordinary uplift to reduce poverty and help refugees. Because when things get worse in the world, the world's richest country should be able to help a little extra that year. Today we propose the following: ‘The government is asking, pending notification of new legislation, for immediate stoppages of long-term asylum children who have been here for three years or more and their families. The cases shall be brought before the Court of Justice and shall be suspended.`; And we will continue to suggest that we accept more refugees from the worst humanitarian disaster in the last few years – the one in Syria. Once again, because when there's a lot worse for refugees in the world, we can do a little bit more. SV will put forward proposals on how Norway can reduce greenhouse gas emissions vigorously in order to achieve the goals of consensus in the Storting, and we will continue to suggest that we must also place significant parts of our fossil resources – as the rest of the world must do. Because when the climate challenge is particularly urgent, it has to be particularly urgent for Norway to come up with the good solutions. But not least, we want to pursue a policy that looks at the environment and solidarity first in the whole of politics, in all areas, because it is worth it for us now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2201	Norway has significant infrastructure deficiencies. Although a new motorway has gradually been built, we still lack the basic high-speed road system that connects the parts of the country and not least the larger cities together. In fact, on international overviews of the quality of infrastructure such as road and rail, we get very poor. In addition, when we know that Norway is among the countries with the most capital that can be invested, it is strange that the former government did not take important structural measures and started reforms in the field of transport and was then able to provide forward-looking infrastructure. The need to deal with the budget year individually has been shown to slow down the whole process in building entirely on the road and the track. It's been broken and divided, it's become a roadway that's never been able to plan financially correctly, because you never know if there's money going to be several kilometers in next year's budget. Multi-yearly budgets and globalization have been our profile for many years. That is why the creation of a road carrier that will be able to do so is one of the most important steps to speed up road construction. It's action. We're also building our own infrastructure fund of 100 billion. kr, where only the yield alone will give us an even larger space for action. It's action. Road and rail development in Norway is characterised by slow planning processes and inefficient, clumsy development. That's this government now taking action to change. It's action. It seems so pointless when building small parcels in large projects and jumping back and forth with both man and machine and thus getting an inefficient, clumsy expansion, rather than building complete transport corridors efficiently when you first start. Gradual improvement in road standards is important for the efficient transport of both persons and goods, but also for road safety. When an increasingly large part of the main road network is gradually being developed into a non-conference road, this may be the most important road safety measure we can do. Modernising the car park will also mean much more road safety – we are among those with Europe’s oldest car park, which also has an impact on the environment and not least on safety. Speaking of the environment: Non-meeting, four-field road with a curve with no large height differences and without the large turns will significantly reduce emissions from heavy transport in particular – so this is a win-win. Aviation is also an area that is now facing major challenges. It is being internationalised, it challenges us in new areas that are constantly changing, and it requires us to facilitate an efficient and, not least, competitive industry. It's important to visualize what we want and where we're going. We cannot resign from a global development; we must be in the forefront of being as equipped as possible for the internationalization that is taking place. Any common regulation in the international industry, a kind of ‘fair trade’ aviation, may need to be considered. We have started a long-term change of course in relation to the policy that has been pursued in the last eight years under a red-green majority rule. Much is happening in the transport sector, and increased efforts are also being made to promote public transport in larger cities. Seeing the different modes of transport in the context is priority No. 1 for this government. Then it's good to know that we're doing well to think new, think completely, and think in the long term. Because it's not just that you can spend money, but how the money is spent, which is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2222	The working party shares the government's problem description from the throne. In the years ahead, we face major challenges. We're becoming more and more inhabitants, we're getting older, and we can't borrow as much on the oil activity ahead. But what does this really mean? What kind of consequences should these recognitions have for our priorities – what we choose to use political forces on, and what we choose to spend money on in the budgets? The Labour Party's approach is based on the basic idea that fair societies with small differences solve the major challenges better and that we solve them better together than alone. For us, this has consequences, both for what kind of tax system we want, and for how we choose to spend the money in the state budget. We have to spend the big money on the important things. We want to make greater efforts for prevention in the health sector. We don't want to just fix it. We will develop policies that combine climate and industry – a climate policy that helps to create new jobs based on the enormous technological competence we have in Norway. We will fight for a decent working life, wipe out powerful means of combating social dumping and ensure that there is a future for Norwegian skilled workers. We want municipalities that are able to deliver welfare schemes that meet targets. Municipalities should be able to provide the care we both require and expect, and they should be able to employ all the competent teachers we need in order for the school to learn our kids more. We have not yet seen the government's draft budget for 2015, and if we read the census completely detached from the government party's history and rhetoric in the public domain, we can be led to believe that tax cuts are not an important matter for the current government. After all, the census is side-by-side with new demands for increased quality in welfare systems — a throne for a growing welfare state. People who are sick or need care shall receive the necessary help in time. Norwegian students will learn more. There is even a wording that says that the differences between people should not be too large. All these are great goals supported by the Workers' Party. But the measures cost, the bill has to be paid, and if the state budget is to be in line with the formulations of the throne, it can almost seem as if we have to get a government budget to increase taxes on Wednesday. Anyway, it's going to be interesting to see how. Greece's promises that we should not have to worry about financing the well-being of municipalities, said in today's debate, are followed up in the budget. But once you find some words about taxes in the throne, it doesn't look like the rest of the wording in the speech. 20 words are all the government uses to describe its own ambitions in terms of tax. The government then decides that it must be profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs, i.e. the right language for it to be cut in the wealth tax. Here I am perhaps more certain that the government will deliver on Wednesday, despite the fact that the distribution effect is poor and close to 60 pst. Of the cuts, they're about 1 pst. Richest. The government is going to cut the wealth tax, despite the fact that the best professional environments we have on tax are clear that it will have very little to say for the investment will of Norwegian companies. The government has demonstrated so far in its lifetime that tax cuts go into a completely separate category of priorities. That's everything else. Therefore, it is difficult to believe that a good arrangement for municipalities wins in the fight against tax cuts. That is why it is difficult to believe that the rhetoric of today's debate is at the forefront, because we saw this clearly one year ago in the supplementary proposal. There the government gave ten times more to tax cuts than to the police, hospitals and teachers together. The ambition to make Norway less oil dependent, an ambition that has been repeated in the throne and in today’s debate, had to give up when it turned out that the repriorities were more difficult in position than in the opposition. You had to go straight to the oil fund and increase the use of oil money to make sure that the tax cuts could become a reality. So it was not to strengthen Norwegian school or care for the elderly that broke the principle of not spending more oil money on a government shift. It was to finance a cut in the property tax and the inheritance tax. In two days, the government will present its first pure Right and Advance Party budget. They can expect a great deal of support from the Labour Party on the policy that is in line with the formulations of the Common Era. If it is in line with previous priorities – more to those with the most history – the Workers' Party will show a completely different direction in its alternative budget, where the big money will be spent primarily on the most important tasks – health, school and well-being. But I guess we have to wait until Wednesday at the fasit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2241	Since I see that the new parliamentary leader of the Labour Party is in the Chamber, let me first comment on what he said in his introduction, namely that he did not find anything about the northern regions either in the census or in the report on the state of the kingdom. The report states: ‘North regions are Norway’s main foreign policy area of interest. The government, with increased emphasis on knowledge-driven industrial development, has introduced a new chapter in the North Region Initiative.’ I guess it's hard to tell. This also underlined the Minister for Foreign Affairs when it was set at 150 million in April. kr to industrial development in the north. The dramatic crisis in Ukraine has led to a new security situation in Europe. It is significant that the census and the report on the state of the state of the state so much referred to the new security policy situation facing Europe. A year ago, no one could imagine what happened in, for example, Ukraine. Russia has contributed to the escalation of the conflict in Ukraine through the annexation of Crimea and through active support to the pro-Russian insurgents in eastern Ukraine. Over 2,000 lives have been lost in the games that started in ours, and more than 400,000 people are now fleeing. Russia's aggressive behaviour in Ukraine challenges peace and security in our part of the world. It is therefore important that we distance ourselves from Russian power use, that we stand together internationally, and that we stand together with our allies in the East who now feel their territories, their cultural identity and their democratic rights threatened. The EU is now proving to be an important player in foreign and security policy, and sanctions have been stepped up against Russia. Norway is behind these, and it is essential that we stand together. This makes it more difficult for Russia to pursue split-and-rule policies. Unfortunately, the sanctions go against Norwegian industry, and the government is therefore in close dialogue with the industries concerned. At the same time, Norway will maintain effective bilateral cooperation with Russia in order to ensure continued relaxation and positive development in the north and the Arctic. Many of the important discussions related to Ukraine take place in the EU, and although we are not at the table, the government has intensified its work in the field of foreign policy in Europe. We will continue to cooperate with the EU and EU countries on action, but NATO is and will continue to be the cornerstone of the Norwegian defence and security policy. There is no alternative organisation that can provide similar safety guarantees to Norway. At the NATO summit in Wales, Norway signed an intention agreement to participate in a new multinational force of 10,000 soldiers from seven European countries, which can quickly move out. NATO should be deterrent, and then we need the strength to react quickly if necessary. Close to the southern border of Europe, we see a particularly dramatic development. The extremist terrorist organisation ISIL must be combated. The brutal growth of ISIL in Iraq and Syria is causing great suffering. Iraq is now in a situation where its authorities have asked for help from the world community. Norway contributes both humanitarianly and with military personnel. The U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs estimates that about 12,000 so-called foreign fighters, from 50 countries, have traveled to the region to join terrorist groups such as ISIL. It is a serious concern that about 50–60 of them are Norwegian citizens and ready to tackle Western objectives. In Syria, we see one of the greatest humanitarian crises since World War II. It is believed that 190 000 people have been killed since the conflict started in 2011. Half of the country's population depends on humanitarian aid. The neighbouring countries are under great pressure and accept huge refugee flows. Norway also accepts refugees from Syria — 1000 in the current year — and, just as has been said, it is absolutely above what all other countries are doing, compared to the population. We can no longer take our security for granted. Wars, crises and conflict are taking place in our neighbourhoods. Therefore, we need to focus on obliging international cooperation in order to create security as goods. This cooperation begins with those closest to us: our European and American allies in the EU and NATO.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2268	We're a year into a new magnification period. There has been an eventful start – new government and new policy. And for my part, I want to add that this last year has been a deep dive in Health-Norway, which has been a fantastic, exciting journey. There have been many great meetings with passionate fires, with inspiring, inclusive and value-oriented leaders, with dedicated, warm, innovative and handsome employees and with many satisfied, grateful and valued patients. The Norwegian healthcare story is also about people who have not received what they needed or demand, in time, about patients who do not feel seen, about systems that do not talk together, and about mistrust between managers and employees. In other words, there is still a lot to be done. So where do we stand, as a country, as a health service, when we're running for a new year here in Stortinget? Many people get very good help, which is usually very fast. We're dealing with more, and we're dealing with them with higher quality. We are still one of the countries in the world with the highest average life expectancy. Nevertheless, we see large, systematic differences in health in the Norwegian population. Research clearly states that people, for example: from higher social groups measured by education, profession or income both live longer and have better health than those from lower social groups. And about research: I'm fully committed to those who today celebrate Norway's first Nobel Prize winners in medicine, May-Britt and Edvard Moser, for excellent research on the brain. It's just to congratulate! So back to social inequality in health. I think it's a justice problem, a living conditions problem, a public health problem, and a socio-economic problem, which deserves us as a society to come up with a stronger foothold to meet this than we have today. Few fields engage more than health policy. That might not be so weird. We're all somehow affected. If I were to pick out four or five points – a little depending on how long I have – with what are the most important tasks that we as a magnification should now tackle, I would mention the following: I think we need to create a vision for healthcare, where we give everything to the patient, where the patient is most important, in the hospital, in the hospital, in the medical office or in the emergency room. We need to develop better answers and solutions on how to remove unnecessary waiting and bottlenecks, we need to extend hospital opening hours, and make better use of medical equipment and hospital days. I believe that as a country we should be open to new technologies, innovative solutions and methods in Norwegian healthcare. Norwegian trade unions must be among the best in the world in their fields. We must then dry up the use of knowledge, new technologies and also coordinate the most specialised services even more than today. I believe that we are going to have a new debate in the Great Britain on public health, on everyday health, on how we can take care of our own health, but also help each other to prevent disease to a greater extent. There's too much talk and too little action in today's public health debate. In particular, I think we need to look at how we can keep the joy of children and young people moving and being active longer. For example, why is this so? so that so say all teenagers at some point end up with sports? The Labour Party believes that there is a need for a new drug policy, which provides better responses and better results than today, and will propose and promote proposals to that effect. Unfortunately, we do not know enough about the quality of different treatment services. Too many people experience a system dance through treatment and back in drug use again. I also believe there is a strong need for a new debate on the place of alcohol in Norwegian society – without a moralistic undertone. It is simply for many children, young people, individuals and families who are bashing with a mother, a father, an uncle who drinks too much and who creates insecurity and poor quality of life. I think it is completely wrong, for example. to give priority to several bottles of wine in the tax-free scheme in front of the fruit for schoolchildren. We should also promote proposals and develop better responses in the care of the elderly and in several other areas. That's how I think we're going to describe, across the party lines, how we can build our country for a new time. I believe we do that by strengthening the community. Investing in each other's health is investing in our society. It's a much better idea to build the country than to prioritize other nice things, which, after all, are not so important in the big context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2296	One year with a new government has been a fantastic journey to join. In all areas, there are new ideas, new ideas, more freedom and not least action. Nothing's too small. Nothing's too big. Health policy affects everyone and arouses strong emotions. Over the last few years, the Progress Party has promoted a number of proposals to improve and secure our health system, and therefore health is a field of action for both the Progress Party and the Government. Perhaps the most important thing we delivered after just six months in government – which the red-greens spent eight years not being able to do – was to legislate the right to a user-controlled personal assistant. It was a great feeling to deliver on this important matter, which means so much to individuals who have some extra challenges in their everyday lives. BPA is the tool they wanted to be able to participate in the world of work, culture, vacation and spend time with family and friends. On 1 January 2015, this is a reality. But others also face challenging challenges: those in a hospital queue, those who are addicted to alcohol, those who are struggling with mental illness, the cancer patient and the chronically ill. The right-wing Party government increases capacity, quality, patient safety and freedom of choice. Russ and mental health were given a special boost in the 2014 budget of the Right Party Government. We're creating the patient's health care system. That is why we are working on a primary health report, a new public health report, a national health and hospital plan, medical notification, patient safety notification, and, above all, we are introducing free treatment options. The working party has written read-only articles in a number of newspapers about free processing options. There they express disappointment that the proposal does not seem to be what they have warned against. The mantra that the private would take out great profits in the simple conditions is no longer entirely appropriate. Now the complaint is that choosing drugs and mental health is not a good thing, as these are not simple patients. In addition, the government must have broken the argument about high profits because, according to the Labour Party, the government is now adding up too low a price, so new arguments have been made: giving people freedom of choice becomes too much bureaucracy. Once again, you defend the system. The government will continue to defend those who need health care. Eight years of red-green solutions have given us more and more queues and a two-part healthcare system. It's time to think about something new. The government also has cancer as a bet area. Through several TV entries, we have witnessed that red-green cancer bets have gone from being a guarantee of treatment within 20 days to a goal of 80 pst. would receive assistance within 20 days, to a status that showed that one was far away from this objective. Without tools, you rarely succeed. Cancer patients must now experience good quality, rapid follow-up and safe treatment. The government complements the national cancer strategy with a concrete plan for this work. Cross-disciplinary diagnostic centres will be in place in all regions during the year and standardised packaging courses will be developed for 30 cancer types. Both multidisciplinary diagnostic centres and package sequences have been voted down several times by the red-greens, last just before summer and the election campaign last year. This is now being rolled out because we have instruments, both in the mission documents of regional health businesses, in the budget for 2014 and in the revised budget before the summer. During the spring, we have had a strategy plan against suicide and self-injury and a strategy plan to combat overdoses. These should be followed up with action and a new escalating plan for the drug field. This is very long-awaited by organisations, users and relatives. However, it is nice to get feedback on the fact that there is more to drug and mental health and that some also report shorter waiting times for treatment. Some health companies have spent a great deal of time putting in place the places that the government called for, but at the same time this has given us a variety of offers. I want to commend all the institutions that have managed to stay liquid, despite the fact that they have driven half-machinery over the last few years. Without these getting fixed, today we wouldn't be able to offer all the new places that we're actually doing. It is a powerful government that is now ruling. There is a strong willingness to facilitate more freedom of choice and sensible solutions, increased skills, shorter waiting times and more rights. Many people have doubts about themselves and their own rather than looking at what is best for the patient. The idea of making changes is always about improving. We'll never let that go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2339	Alcohol, according to the World Health Organisation, is the second largest risk factor in terms of disease burden in Europe, as is the health challenges in Norway. It also appears that alcohol is the driving force behind all heavy drug users. We know that availability and price have the greatest impact on alcohol use. However, the forwarding party has taken the lead in increasing the tax-free allowances, with the result that the tax-free sales have increased by 20 pst. from July this year in relation to July last year. How long will it take for the Progress Party to see the relationship between alcohol policy and the health challenges we face? Is it all right for the Progress Party to make it even worse for the five percent who don't master increased access to alcohol, at the expense of the others who want to increase comfort?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2347	It's a little bit special to get questions about why we're letting someone replace their cigarettes with two bottles of wine, when the representative himself belongs to a party that increased the quota. So we haven't increased the total quota, but we've moved the tobacco over to wine for those who want it. It has also been a strategy, because we have wanted to reduce the number of smokers – it has been so incredibly important to us from a public health perspective. The number is still going down, but it's actually also the number of people who drink alcohol. Young people start drinking alcohol much later, and the numbers are falling. That means that we're doing a lot of the right thing to give people a sense of how dangerous overconsumption is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2352	Then I understand that the reason is that when you remove smoke, it's okay to increase the alcohol content. I have another question, and it goes on to say that the Progress Party has had an impact on an experimental system of state funding in the care of the elderly, but it is very unclear what to put into it. I have tried to visit the website of the Progress Party, and then it appears that the municipalities have too little resources to offer adequate care for the elderly. Would it not be easier, then, to increase the subsidy to municipalities, or do you have so little confidence in local politicians and that they can give priority to it? It's very uncertain. Is it such that a blank authorisation is given to the municipalities, so that they can give what they want of services and then pay the state, or is it such that you have to override the care of everyone over a certain age, so that the state goes in and takes home care, home care, etc.? It's very unclear what that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2361	I assume that the Workers' Party believes that when they have been in government for eight years, they have given the municipalities the space they needed to provide a good care for the elderly. At the same time, I believe that the Labour Party agrees that we have not succeeded. So it's not just the economic space that's critical to whether we get proper care for the elderly in all the municipalities. Some are very nice, some can't – there's too much difference. That's why we're going to try out a trial project. The layout of that we will come to Stortinget and tell about when we have all the pieces in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2366	The right-hand party management will introduce free treatment options into the healthcare system. The proposal has received crushing criticism during the hearing. Three out of four health professionals are negative. They fear less effective hospitals, the loss of key personnel and the favoring of a few, but resource-intensive patients with a clear problem, and not patients most or most people. The patient and user environment in Norway my proposal will weaken the patient rights of each patient. The Medical Association warns against introducing this within the context of rushes and psyches. The Psychologists' association fears increase bureaucracy, and it fears the quality of supply. Will the Progress Party reconsider its view of free treatment options, or will the Progress Party really force a regime in the Norwegian healthcare system that no one will have, that weakens public hospitals, and that weakens the weakest patients' dishes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2377	I'm glad they call those who are struggling with drugs and mental health problems, the most resource-intensive patients. I think they'd appreciate getting cold. I don't think the Progress Party has any desire to reverse this. If we go into the hearing replies, we'll see that it's not crushing criticism, but you're skeptical in different areas, and it cracks in every direction. It's more about being most concerned with protecting one's own field. If you look at what the drug organisations and those who work with mental health – those who are concerned about the patient – say, they think that this is very good, just because the way it is today, people die in line while there is free capacity out there. These are people who know they need help, and who have special desires for what kind of help they want, and we're willing to give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2386	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2389	In the Left, like many other speakers here today, we are pleased with the attention given to the great climate challenges we face in the throne. They were given a large place, and there is no doubt that this is also the most important matter we face in the coming year. We are totally dependent on setting up an international climate agreement, where the first step is a negotiation in Lima, and then, in the spring, the different countries will deliver their targets both by 2020 and by 2030, in order to establish an international agreement in December 2015. The second thing I am happy to have received attention in this debate is the Living Planet report that has come from the WWF, which shows that animal populations internationally have fallen by 50 pst. during the last 40 years. It's a dramatic change and a major disaster that, if we don't deal with it properly, is a crisis in itself because of the diversity we lose, but also a crisis in economic and developmental terms with the consequences it has for food, agriculture, fisheries and other things. These two climate challenges, as well as those relating to the conservation of natural areas, require a good and strong international commitment on the part of Norway. We have to work on our own climate agreement, we have to work to get agreements, and follow up, and for the objective of not reducing natural areas by 2020. We need to strengthen the green climate fund – the 200 million. kr, as the government has just notified, is far too small, both in terms of how the climate fund should be able to operate on its own, to give an international signal that this is important, and to facilitate the work on a new climate agreement by 2015. A field where Norway is doing considerable and important work is the rainforest field. There we achieve impressive results, and we are clearly a leading nation. Even when it comes to preserving biodiversity, this is a central task that we follow up. I have to say that I am looking forward with excitement to the discussion we are going to have about the State pension fund abroad and changes in the mandate to make this fund work in a more climate-friendly direction. Much has to be done outside, but at the same time we have to do far more at home. I think it is quite striking that when the government representatives outline what they think has been done extra in the climate field this year, there is one measure – perhaps the most important – that is not mentioned, namely the increase in the mineral oil tax. When we're going to work out a budget for next year, it's important not only to say what you mean, but also to do what you say. The main instrument we can have in the short term to achieve the climate targets we have set for 2020 is to start a green tax shift now. Contamination has to be more expensive, while alternatives have to be cheaper. When the Left talks about strengthening the climate agreement, it's not just about figuring out new measures. That's when we're going to have more effective measures, so we're going to reach the target of reaching 47 million tonnes in CO2 emissions by 2020. The measures must then be proportionate. This also applies to public transport, to rail bets, to electric car bets, and to new technologies and new pilot projects. We are also pleased that the government, after all, acknowledges that oil will no longer be the engine of our economic growth, as it says in the Common Era. Even in the petroleum sector, we must think again. We must look at the CO2 tax, we must safeguard vulnerable areas such as the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja, and finally we must also look at a new assessment of the risk of new exploration concessions in the petroleum sector. This is where the state takes all the risks. In the future, this must be given a different distribution to the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2414	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2417	The Left Party recently went out and said that the fight against child poverty must be given priority in the future budget. The Christian People's Party has also recently said that there is a limit to what the Christian People's Party's social conscience can accept from tax cuts. We know that tax cuts cost and tax cuts, and we know what we are waiting for, because the Right Party and the Advance Party have said that those who have to pay for the tax cuts in the next budget are the poor children. It is cut in the child allowance allowance and in the transitional benefit, and the families, the low-income families, the lone caregivers, where the poor children live, are hit with surgical precision. Does the Left have a social conscience where there is a limit, as the Christian People's Party has, and will the Left insist that the fight against child poverty be given priority, and remain with the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party to stop this kind of cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2422	Now it is not safe for us to stay with the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, but we have just conducted a separate seminar on child poverty to get the various measures out. This is an important area for the Left, and it is a clear priority within the budget which, after all, is approaching 1 100 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2427	If the Left Party is concerned not only with protecting the families of children but with bringing about the survival of child poverty, a good place to start is to reverse this type of planned cut, precisely because it hits the poorest children with surgical precision. It is in these families that the poor children live. When we know that the transition benefit is a social benefit you can get if you don't have a job, but that qualifies to get into work and activity, and that the alternative for these families is that these lone carers end up with social assistance: does the representative of Elvesuen think this is a cut that the Left Party, who always says they are concerned with child poverty and the line of work, can accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2435	Now we're going to look at the budget that's coming, and then we're going to bring our alternative to it. In terms of child poverty, we need to look at the whole system, including how child protection works in particular. It is clear that those who are entering child protection today have far too poor results when they come out again and become adults. We need to build a professional system around the individual to get far better results than what we have today. In poverty, too, it is about creating a good social framework that does not give you a reinforcement — experience shows that this can reproduce for generations. It is a set of instruments that need to be put together, and the Left will definitely give priority to creating the set of instruments that will strengthen the fight against child poverty. It must also reflect this budget when it is finally adopted in December.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2442	A green shift is about a number of different things. These include: that in Norway, in the years to come, we will also have to make a major contribution to the development of renewable energy. It can be done in several areas and in several fields. If it results in correctness that the government is now improving the depreciation rules for wind power, that's good. It's a contribution to that. However, there is also considerable uncertainty about, among other things, Statnet’s role in triggering new investments on the wind side, on the Fosen peninsula. And then we also experience that you kind of give with one hand and take with the other hand. Just before summer, the government removed with a pen stroke the entire state forest's investment in renewable energy. By taking an extraordinary dividend of 57 million. have removed the whole possibility of contributing to the development of small power together with private small power builders. Does the Left consider it a good contribution to the green certificate market and thus contribute to a green shift?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2449	We need to have a bet on the green certificates. I also think it is very good that the depreciation rules now change. It also involves some dilemmas regarding classical nature protection. We need to protect the most important areas. There is no need to go into the most controversial areas to put renewable energy in place. When it comes to investing in biofuels and using biofuels, we also need to look at different instruments to bet on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2454	Earlier in the big meeting today, I mentioned the report that Jens Stoltenberg and Felipe Calderón attended, The New Climate Economy, which strongly recommends that we stop investing in major infrastructure projects, which are driving the use of fossil fuels and large emissions of greenhouse gases, and instead choose to invest in things that have a more sustainable direction. Then I want to ask Ola Elvesuen something I know he knows well, namely, E18, which we know is going to cost 50 billion. kr – 40+10. It's going to be an expensive project, if it doesn't scale down significantly and you spend the big money on investments in renewable energy. Does Ola Elvestuen agree that it is necessary to re-examine this project?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2459	The problem with E18 westwards is not the environmental impact of the project. This can work well by moving the road below the ground and getting a green lid. You get a short-term capacity, but not the whole. The problem with E18 westward is the price and cost of it. What is absolutely crucial is that that cost should not go beyond the necessary collective actions in the Oslo area, whether in the case of the Fornebu T-Bahn or railway investment. To do that, you need a review to look at opportunities to scale down the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2467	The two factors that seem the most crime-promoting are having a job to go to and have people around them who care about you. Politicians cannot adopt closeness between people, but we can lower the threshold of participation. Politicians can rarely adopt jobs, but we can provide a basis for growth, addition and good pay and working conditions. Thus, labour, cultural policy and local economy are closely linked to the creation of safer societies. When crime ends up on the police's table, society has already failed. It is a political task to create well-functioning societies that include and provide opportunities. Of course, it is not possible to eliminate crime in total – not for any party, not for any government – but it is possible to reduce the basis for crime in a society. There is a need for more tools than a Ministry of Justice can handle. The Labour Party will have a strong community economy, giving good growth conditions. We want a boost for cultural life, it gives democratic debate, and it gives several arenas to participate. We want a good deal for everyone. It gives you more possibilities, jobs and the future. And we want a strong police force, for the police set the boundaries that politicians couldn't. The expectations of political action in this field are high. After the Yurv Commission, it has our drawbacks, it has our progress, but the distance between what people expect and what people see is still there. One of the most important reforms in the field is still waiting for us, simply the police reform. The government announced in the throne that there would be a proposal for a ‘new police structure’. I assume that the reform will not only deal with structure, but also deal with which one will fill the structure. I registered difor with a little wonder the representative Margunn Ebbesen's line to Trond Giske earlier today. She said that in the debate on the police reform her Labour Party on the fence. That's wrong. We've traveled around and met the police districts around the country. We have also made concrete proposals on content. For example, the Labour Party has already warned that we believe the work on culture and leadership must be an important part of the police reform. Culture is not a change of anything overnight. It requires long-term, circumstantial work at all levels — operational, tactical, strategic and not least political. There is some reason why the Labour Party has invited us to a cross-political debate on how we from Stortinget and the Ministry of Justice can support this work. In that light, the line from the Right becomes a little bit melodic. The police reform that the Right Party and the Progress Party are working on is overtime, but I look forward to their coming to the goal, so that we can have an open democratic discussion about her on the Stortinget. The working party will be involved in a broad anchoring of this reform. We want to give the police the courtesy they need, and we want to give people a stronger police force. In our modern age, justice policies have in many ways been one of the keys to crime, but the word 'justice' comes from Latin and means justice. Justice is also prevention. I noticed the Minister of Justice talking about the integrity of justice policy in his speech in this debate. I'm glad, but I also noticed that in that health he didn't mention the word 'prevention'. The Labour Party believes that it is always better to prevent crime from happening than to have good measures to repair it afterwards. We cannot repair away the fear of a woman who has been beaten, felt when the battle came. We cannot repair the loss of a father who has lost his son because of criminal acts that others have endured. We cannot repair children’s and adolescents who have passed away from a care failure that has never been seen. Although a need for action plans and strategies that need to be implemented once something has gone wrong, the forces we really need are prevention, prevention and prevention. I have expectations that the government sees these lines, and that one in the budget, which comes later this week, puts the force where it needs most, not just where it turns out to be the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2488	The right-wing Party government is well in the process of making important changes in many areas in order to improve Norway. We are doing important tasks today, but equally important: at the same time, we are arming Norway for the future. Therefore, we could also hear in the census that the infrastructure needs to be adapted to a growing population and increased value creation. Fortunately, we now have a government that is renewing the transport system, so that people can get safely and quickly to and from work and the goods can easily get in and out of the country. Fortunately, we have now received a government that thinks completely new in the field of transportation, and it is time. Because today the road network is too poor, there is too much maintenance, the railway has to be upgraded, and a collective effort has to be made. There will not necessarily be more road and path by just using old-fashioned solutions and continuing bureaucratic and inefficient systems that do not work. What does the government's investment actually mean? Well, that means, for example, road planning, which currently takes an average of 10 years to implement from the time the spade is set in the soil, is being reduced. So the government is cutting the planning time, we've accelerated 25 projects by giving more planning. We have cut through and made a trace selection and provided rapid clarifications. An example from my hometown, Trondheim, is a clarification of where the freight terminal would be located. It's taken different governments 20 years to discuss, for this government took 6 months to clear up. Roads that have previously been built slatted and divided must now be built more comprehensively and efficiently. For this reason, the government establishes its own road company to speed up the planning and more coherent development of major road projects. Even in aviation, we find solutions that make life easier for most people, like simplified transfers. From next year, it will be possible to proceed domestically without re-checking the baggage. The red-green started to increase the appropriations for the railway. It was good, but unfortunately they did almost nothing with the systems. They were busy spending more money, we're concerned with better results. In order to get a better rail service for people and goods, we want, among other things: opening up competition. I'm concerned about finding sustainable solutions to society that can stand for decades to come. I hope that the Workers' Party will also think well before they, instead of defending old solutions that do not work, look at the possibilities of anchoring a more modern and forward-looking transport policy that can stand for decades to come. Our cities are growing. They grow fast, and they grow tighter. That's good for development, and that's good for the environment. Today, however, it is also demanding investment in public transport in cities. So the government has committed itself to giving 50 pst. State support for the major collective actions – measures that the red-green voted against as late as one year ago. It was therefore very interesting today to hear the representative Gahr Støre in an answer saying that it was always their plan to give 50 pst. support for the major collective actions. In fact, the proposal of the Workers’ Party in the national transport plan does not promise commitment funding. Of course, it is Gahr Støre's privilege to want to change the Labour Party's policy in the future, but it is not in the power of Gahr Støre's representative to change history. History clearly shows that the Workers’ Party was against 50 p.m. investment grants for the major collective actions. While history shows that the Workers' Party was opposed, it is a pleasure that the Workers' Party has now turned around. The question, to which the Labour Party must answer, is nevertheless: What measures in the districts will be taken when the Workers' Party will now give more to cities without increasing the framework? The Right Party government is following up what we promised, and we are doing well with our journey promise. It will provide a better transport business day for business and for each of us. It is therefore important to invest in transport solutions that will improve everyday life for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2507	A lot goes well in Norway. Over several years, Norway has been doing well in many important areas. We have low unemployment. We have a high level of employment – among both genders. We have many positive trends. At the same time, the numbers are not necessarily quite correct when we compare them to the rest of Europe. Norway also has a significant proportion of people who are not in the statistics, who are completely out of work and who are therefore not included in these statistics. Although a lot is going well, the story is full of examples of nations and, for example, companies that have gone well, but have not managed to change. The American camera manufacturer Kodak was the world leader. In 2003, they traded well over 100 billion dollars. kr, but did not choose to renew. In 2012, they had to apply for bankruptcy protection. If you look at the business world in the rest of Europe with which our companies compete, you'll see that they've been through a tough financial crisis. They have had significant changes and have managed to renew themselves. Norway has not carried out the necessary modernisation, efficiency and renewal over the last eight years. I am pleased that we have now received a powerful government, which is ready to secure the jobs and help more people to use their working capacity in full or in part. We believe that this gives the individual freedom so that they can take care of themselves more fully. To achieve that, we now have a government that strengthens businesses by reducing the tax and tax regime, which has the time to invest in transport, not only economically, but also organisationally, so that we can build more roads for the money we grant, and more railways. We also need to build it faster and more reasonably, because we have a government that dares to renew and streamline. We have a government that reduces bureaucracy. Many of these grips have many good effects. We know that if we increase productivity in Norway by just 0.2 pst. annual, it will mean more to our prosperity than the yield of the oil fund in 2060. No human being is completely A4. There are no standard people. We know that the working environment law we have today is largely based on a society that has been very changing. I am pleased that we now have a government that wants to modernise the Working Environment Act – make it more adapted to today's situation and make sure that the door to work is wider and wider, so that more people can work. If it's not necessarily 100 pst., it could be that some people have at least some residual working capacity. Then we have to make it possible for people to make use of it. The big debate this day is about something that the Storting actually decided several years ago – to make it easier to combine work and social security. It is one of many important measures that the government is now taking, ensuring that the labour market is improved for everyone. It is also about the fact that very many people never get a foothold in the workplace. They can apply for a job but are never called in. There are people whom employers do not dare to employ – they consider that the risk is too great. I'm glad that we now have a government that makes it possible for these people, too, to be able to show that they have a good residual capacity. The door to work needs to be wider and wider. Then more people will have the opportunity to work. I am pleased that this government is contributing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2526	The Christian People's Party's family policy aims at ensuring children's safe growth and ensuring good conditions for families. We don't want either uniformity or free slip, but we want a good center policy where it's not the working life and material values that stand in the high seat, but time, cooperation and values that are important to all of us. As a family-political spokesperson in the Christian People's Party, it is a pleasure for me to record that the family-political debate is alive. We in the Christian People's Party have been positive about the cautious innovation that the leader of the Workers' Party has spoken out about. It is important that we are forward-looking in family policy and facilitate families in the situation they are actually in, that we understand the challenges facing families and that they are different. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned about the cash support and that it will work well. That's because we see that for some families it gives an opportunity for a different everyday life than they would otherwise have. 6000 kroner isn't all the world, but for some, this is enough for them to feel that they have a choice. It's not a goal for us that everyone follows the A4 pattern, right from leave to kindergarten, whether they want it or not. Kids are different, it's important to take that into account. That is why we are so concerned with a strong cash support scheme and a good nursery with room when needed. I also think it is important that we look at how both the cash support scheme and the nursery sector can become more flexible, so that more people get the opportunity to combine: take out a few days a week at home and a few days in kindergarten. It's actually not like today that everyone gets kindergarten when they need it. The Christian People's Party has therefore said that we believe it is right to give priority to two kindergarten admissions now. It's not good family policy to keep a family waiting in kindergarten for almost a year; it's not to facilitate a simpler everyday life. It's not enough just to get kindergarten, it's absolutely essential that kindergarten is a place where the child thrives and gets good care. Most kindergartens in Norway are very good and have employees who do a great job every day. But everything is not perfect in kindergarten. Today it varies, among other things: how many adults there are per child. And we know that it doesn't get any better when pressed municipal and kindergarten budgets are going up. The Christian People's Party believes that enough adults in kindergarten are the most important for good quality. That's why we in the Christian People's Party are impatient about putting in place a recruitment standard that ensures enough adults per child every single day, all day. We have proposed that such a norm be introduced by 2016, the Christian People's Party believes 2020 is too late. For the Christian People's Party, pediatric quality is not primarily about mapping and learning. ‘Most importantly, the quality of the relationship between children and adults...’» Professor May Britt Drugli has said about children's well-being in kindergarten. We in the Christian People's Party think that's something we should listen to, and we think the necessary prerequisites for good relations are that there are enough adults at work, and that these are safe adults that give them good care. With enough adults, more kindergarten teachers, stable crews and the smallest in small groups, most kindergarten children meet a nice everyday life. The Christian People's Party believes we're going to have ambition for a proper escalation of family protection, and then we're talking about funds that provide a real capacity increase in family protection. The most important family policy work is prevention. Strong family protection can save society a great deal of money, and not least: it can make life better for a lot of people, whether it's about therapy to strengthen good relationships and families, about early help in difficult conflicts, or about making life through and after breakup as much as possible conflict. For a child, it means an enormous amount when family protection is able to mitigate the level of conflict between parents. I also believe that the child perspective is important here, that family protection must have an active role in hearing the children. I have been visiting the Grenland Family Office, which offers conversations for children in the event of a break-up – with good results. I think it may be a good suggestion that all children are offered at least one own hour when their parents are in for mediation after a breakup. We know that high levels of conflict are harmful to everyone, and especially to the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2548	Climate policy is about the future, about avoiding the dangers of global warming, but also about how we take care of the opportunities offered by a future low-carbon society. Not least, a global low-carbon society offers great opportunities for Norway – we have technology environments, we have capital, we have natural resources, and we have an energy mix that makes the transition in Norway easier than in many other countries. In a sustainable society, we combine growth and value creation with the need for future generations to take responsibility for climate and nature. So sustainability is not just about protection, but also about the responsible use of our resources. Norwegian oil policy is an example of this. We have the world's most stringent climate and environmental regime on a Norwegian base. Greenhouse gas emissions are about half the average global, we have a zero-emission regime of dangerous chemicals. Our oil policy regime has a reputation for being the gold standard in terms of climate, environment and not least the management of the petroleum values that have created. This gold standard did not come about by itself or as a result of market forces – political will has been the driving force. Petroleum activities provide work directly and indirectly to about 250000 Nordics. This industry accounts for more than one fifth of GDP, over one quarter of total investment and 30 pst. of the income of the country. The mention of this important industry in the census is confined to a pessimistic message: «The oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth», it was said. This can hardly be interpreted as anything other than that the government believes that our petroleum industry belongs to the past. Where is optimism? Where's the hunt for opportunities? Where is the belief that responsible resource use creates jobs and long-term values, both money and competence? Where is the political will? There's a lot of unrest in the industry these days. Oil prices fall, costs are high. The oil companies prioritise cash flows rather than value creation. There was a dramatic cut in investments, upgrade and maintenance on the Norwegian base. Thousands of jobs disappear, with their competence in oil companies and supply industries. These negative features are reinforced by the government's tightening of the permit rules. People are told off instead of getting a permit. The need for investment does not go away. This has to be re-examined in the future. So what capacity do we have? The situation is serious; it is therefore conciliatory when the government does not consider it appropriate to mention this industry, there is no reason to intervene when a project like Zidane is launched into the blue and investments of 11 billion. Nor does it seem to be willing to do anything with the legislation on permitting. The petroleum industry is a cyclical industry, and we are now at risk of lack of competence and capacity when the market is resuming. Carbon capture and storage can provide closer to 14 pst. of the necessary emission cuts in a low-carbon society. Norway is among the leading nations that are researching and developing technologies to achieve this. The government has granted a so-called pause of thought to create a new strategy for the work. Statements from the government parties give us reason to fear that the new strategy is about dropping full-scale cleaning in Norway and betting everything abroad. If that's right, we'll play out the opportunities we have to empower Norwegian industry to become leading players in this technology. There will be a historic failure and waste of human resources in Norway. There are concerns in the energy markets, concerns in the supply industry. We are moving towards a warmer world that makes it necessary to produce energy with low greenhouse gas emissions. Market forces are good servants, but bad gentlemen. The energy situation in Norway requires political attention. We must enable the industry to seize the opportunities, not deplete them with a hopeless law of permacy. We have to be drivers to get projects like Zidane going, not lean back and leave them to the oil companies to argue about how to make the most of infrastructure. We need to drive out carbon capture and storage projects and technologies in Norway and Norwegian industry, not pay other nations to seize the opportunities. This is not the time for pointless passivity, it is the time for political will, and it is the time for political action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2568	The Right-Fremskritsparte-Government builds its policy on trust in individuals, trust in families, entrepreneurs and volunteering. Norway is getting better when we use all the good forces, when all the good forces are released, and when the creative power from below is encouraged and stimulated. The immediate communities are the most important building blocks of society. We're talking about the family, the neighborhood, the community, the school or the workplace. Every municipality and every community is built up by such communities. It is the importance and respect for these close communities that the Right Party government strengthens local self-government in order to ensure strong municipalities that can decide more themselves and not only be the perpetrators of government-determined policies or regulators of state regulations and guidelines. We want municipalities that are more masters of – or lady in – their own house, to say it like this. I would also like to say this: in recent years, local elected representatives have been given more and more opportunity to be punished by their citizens for what the municipality does, while they have been given less and less opportunity to do something about the problem – perhaps other than to say that it is the state that has decided that it has to be. Of course it shouldn't be like that. For this reason, the government is demonstrating the effectiveness of the municipal reform, a state-of-the-art case that, finally and thanks to the Right-Fremskritsparte government, is now on the rails, because stronger municipalities are a prerequisite for local communities that can take more responsibility for their own development and have less detailed governance from the state. As a result, local reform will give greater freedom to find locally adapted solutions and will provide the basis for increased quality of welfare services, at the pace of housing and industrial policy. For this reason, local reform is a reform of strengthened local democracy. The government reduces State over-management and has raised the threshold for State intervention in local land decisions. Simplification of procedures for construction projects is now announced in the State budget, and from the outset the government is well-informed in the Planning and Building Act because our citizens – and the municipalities, for that matter – will get less bureaucracy and a simpler everyday life, whether it is building on the house or setting up a garage. The main priority is the government. For 2014, we strengthened the most important thing for local housing and business and which is also the most demand for residents and businesses: better roads and increased appropriations for rural roads around the country. A strong community built in close proximity requires trust, that as citizens we can have confidence in each other and in the institutions of society, but also that, as rich politicians, in practice, we have confidence in the people, in the family, in the company, and in local democracy. This is where the government implements. We reverse the trend of state overgovernment and create more room for local solutions. The government's expert committee is currently considering what is required by municipalities to accept new tasks. The government's proposal for new tasks for municipalities has been notified to spring. All of this contrasts with what the red-green government contributed to. The very best are perhaps the differences in the view of local democracy illustrated by the Arbeiderpartiet Eirin Sund in a radio debate with Trygve Battle Violence Vedum this summer: ‘And that’s the way it is — I’m going to admit one thing, and it’s that I’m very much in favour of local democracy, but sometimes it’s very situational because in some municipalities it’s the Right and FrP that governs, and I don’t think they know enough to rule the way they should have done.’ With such a starting point, there won't be much opportunity for local elected representatives to decide for themselves. A good society is built by all the strong local communities, but then we have to show trust in the same communities. Trust is about admitting that even though the power is properly assembled in this hall, the wit is actually spread quite so evenly across our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2601	After Storting's treatment of the municipal bill in June, it looks as if the government's timetable for implementing the municipal reform will come to an end. There is no broad majority in favour of the proposal to force decisions on large municipalities before the 2017 elections. I am pleased that so many in this Chamber agreed with the Central Party's demand that the tasks for the municipalities should be put in place first, and that the volunteer line must be fixed. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are opposed to the government's arrangements for the municipal reform. The supporting parties the Christian People's Party and the Left voted for the government's constitution in the Storting, despite the fact that they also expressed scepticism. That means that there is a narrow majority who support the government, but the majority of the investigation is there. Municipalities normally follow up state orders. I see the Sanner Council believes it is an expression of the success of the municipal reform that 200 municipalities are already in the starting pit with the investigation work. In fact, they — more or less reluctantly — do what they have been ordered to do. The central party has nothing against the municipalities assessing what is the best municipal structure for the future, but we're holding on to the volunteer line. It is the inhabitants of our municipalities who know best what is best for their municipality, and whether their municipality is served to join someone or not. The government says it will implement the municipal reform to strengthen local democracy, and they start threatening coercion in 2017 and overcoming local decisions. At the same time, warnings are issued against giving citizens the opportunity to express their opinion through a referendum. Most municipal mergers in recent times have been carried out after referendum, and some have been stopped after no from the population. That's what our democratic rules of play are. It is obvious that the government is afraid that their ambitions for the implementation of the greatest structural reform of the last decades in the fast-track sector will be halted by the electorate. The government and the majority of the population should also give themselves and the municipalities time and resources for the knowledge acquisition and impact assessment of the changed municipal structure. The reality is that in our far-reaching country, there is no fascination as to whether a community merger will be for the benefit of the municipality. The government believes the answer is yes no matter what the investigation will show. They still believe that they are ready to say yes before they have gained knowledge of the reason, yes, before the investigation work is completed. I attended the Animal Island Seminar for a while back. There he also attended the Council of State for Sanner, and I noticed that he was competent not to answer a specific question about whether he was afraid of the municipal reform would lead to centralised residence, since several municipal centres would become one. Perhaps Sanner did not see the question as relevant, but for the Central Party, this is one of the most important questions to which good answers need to be given in the future. Another important issue will be the consequence that the number of local politicians will be more than halved. There is no doubt that there will be a major negative impact on local democracy and on the ability of its citizens to influence. Local government reform is part of a series of major structural reforms in general government that will lead to large relocation flows and centralisation — the police reform, the government of tax collection, the closure of regional offices in Innovation Norway, to name a few. For us in the Center Party it will be a main task to work for a decentralised administration. We do that to ensure that both government and local government are organised in a way that is adapted to local conditions around the country. We're also doing it for public jobs to be part of and build the whole country, not just the metropolitan area. Back to the municipal reform: the government is on the waving front in the implementation of the urgent reform. Now the proposal to make all municipalities into ROBEK municipalities is withdrawn. The proposal that the reform aid should be reserved for municipalities with more than 10 000 inhabitants has been withdrawn and the plan for the carnage of the county municipality was stopped in Stortinget. I think the government has to go back on several unreasonable demands they have made to press through the merger of municipalities as soon as possible. Municipalities are required to investigate and require the completion of the processes by the summer of 2016. I do not think this urgent reform is a procedure that takes local authorities and local democracy seriously. The government has set up a timetable for the non-suitable community reform. The dream of a rapidly implemented reform, I think, will come when the Stortingetakes into account the realities of the major shortcomings that lie within the government's foundation for the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2620	The government emphasises that while solving important problems and tasks today, we must equip Norway for the future. We need to solve today's challenges for young children's parents and today's challenges for the elderly, but we also need to ensure that we ensure a public sector that meets tomorrow's needs and welfare schemes that bear with us in the future. That means that well-being needs solid funding, and that means that we need to make sure that people have a safe job to go to, both today and in the future. We need to create new, green and safe jobs for a future where oil and gas revenues are reduced. That is why it is important that we lower taxes and taxes today, so that we strengthen competitiveness and secure jobs for the future. That's why it's important that we focus on knowledge, research and innovation today, so that we get the ideas and solutions that we're going to live on in the future, and not least the ideas and solutions that the world can live with in the future. In all these areas, European policy is one of the main areas. Firstly, there are now heavy processes in the EU on climate and energy issues, processes that can have a significant impact on Norway in the future. One discussion is the discussion on the 2030 Energy and Climate Framework, where the EU's energy and climate policy objectives are set for the next 15 years. Another discussion is the debate on energy security in Europe: working on an energy security strategy and an energy union. These are major decisions that have received further pressure through the Russian behaviour in Ukraine. Here, too, there are discussions that can have a significant impact on Norway, and therefore it is important that we participate, that we act as a partner of the EU in climate policy, and as a country that is a significant energy supplier to Europe. These include: Therefore, both the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy in Milan today put forward Norwegian positions against important decisions to be taken in the EU in the coming weeks. Another example is research and innovation. The new EU Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, Horizon 2020, is our main international research arena and more than that: an innovation arena. It is a programme designed to address concrete, important and major societal challenges. For Norway, which invests a lot in this, it is also important to take a lot out of it and connect the research networks and get the results that can build both business and welfare for the future. Thirdly, the whole discussion in the EU on competitiveness, jobs and job creation is a debate that has a lot in itself to do with Norway. The economic crisis of recent years has led to a whole new search for the need for competitiveness, for the need for simplification and for raising the transatlantic partnership through the discussion on a free trade agreement between the EU and the United States. There are important themes that will be found over the next few months and years, and in those processes it is very important for Norway to be an active participant from our point of view. It is also central that, in ongoing work on EU and EEA issues, we ensure the best possible framework conditions for Norwegian business. This means increasing the pace of legislative integration, so that there is regularity between the EU market and our market, and solving the difficult issues that currently prevent Norwegian business from being given the same rules as European competitors. There is also a question of solving difficult problems today to equip us for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2640	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2643	I very much agree with Councillor Helgesen that Europe is our main venue on many important issues that we are facing. Our role is there, in addition to NATO membership, by virtue of the EEA Agreement. My question concerns the last point that Helgesen raised in his statement, namely the aftermath of outstanding acts in the EEA Agreement. There's alarmingly high numbers, there's almost 600 of them waiting. Of course, that's not all we have control of alone, but we have it over something. In the past we were known to be one of the best in the class to be able to incorporate this, but now we're one of the worst in the class, along with Iceland. What I then wonder is why we are in that situation, and what the Council of State Helgesen intends to do to get out of a difficult situation for Norwegian business as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2652	It's true that we have alarmingly high numbers in the aftermath, and we've had it for years. First of all, we are dealing with this through dialogue with our EFTA partners, where some of the challenge lies, and looked at home through systematic follow-up of the areas where the lag is greatest. This comes and goes in packages and with different sizes. One of the things we do is we put in the government's European committee every month on the agenda where the chase is greatest, and have a follow-up to get it down. Moreover, it is clear that we are now in a situation where, because of the unexplained situation in the financial supervision process, we see that the lag is growing in the financial field until we have found a solution. That's why we're putting a lot of pressure on finding a solution there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2659	If the Council of State has something new to report on the financial supervision case, we are probably very interested to hear about it. But if that is not the case, I thought that I should simply hear with the Council of State about something else. A new commission has arrived. How will the State Council of Helgesen assess from its point of view the new work programme for this Commission? Yes, European cooperation is ongoing at many levels, but ultimately, at the political level, solutions are largely to be found on the main issues. What is his assessment of the new Commission, and how will the government work to establish important contacts so that possible solutions can be found to Norwegian issues with a new Commission? What are his assessments of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2666	Firstly, we have received a commission – or is about to get it – which is both younger and heavier than the previous Commission. The average age has decreased. These are many young and energetic Commissioners, and they are many with a heavier political background. Many have been Heads of Government. The second thing I want to say is that Commission President Juncker has taken a new approach. He has established Vice-President positions with pooling portfolios across the various Commissioners. It's innovative, it's something that's been needed for many years, but he's taking this grip, and it's going to be exciting to follow. This presents new challenges for us as to how we should deal with this, including: in the field of energy and climate, and in the new area of maritime issues, fisheries and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2673	For the Central Party, there are few – if any – areas for which it is more important to fight than the People's Rule. The founding wall of democracy and the People's Government is Grundlova, and § 115 states that if the Storting is to give up sovereignty in a factual and limited area to an international organisation of Norway is a member, it shall be done with three-quarters of a majority. The third EU energy package for government management is now in place. As a result, Norway may relinquish sovereignty to the European Energy Regulators Agency (ACER). For example, if there is a lack of coherence between Norway and one or more EU countries on cost-sharing and development, the Agency forces Norway to pay billions. The government has said that one will work for more openness, but there has been little openness about this work. My question to the State Council Helgesen is the following: Can the Council of States guarantee that Norway will not end up giving Norwegian sovereignty to the EU as a result of the EU's third energy package?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2680	As the representative of Navarsete implies, this is a complicated and very important matter, and that is why it is also time-consuming. The thing to be certain is that the conclusion we draw and we will come back to the Storting will follow the practice that has been claimed in this room, namely that if a transfer of authority is more than minor, it will be the Basic Law § 115 that applies. If it is not so intrusive, it will be the Basic Law § 26 that applies – if there is at all a waiver of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2688	The government has chosen to have its own EU Minister, which may make sense. As far as possible, the state councils have profiled themselves to the lowest possible level of conflict between Norway and the EU. In some areas that might make sense, others may not. Nevertheless, one should believe that there is a higher threshold for this government to reserve itself against all or part of many of the directives and regulations that the EU comes with, than was the case with the previous government. With such a hindrance, it is not a little wonder Left notes that the government has chosen to oppose the implementation of the EU regulation on capital requirements in one area: reliefs in capital requirements for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, also known as the SME discount. Can the Council of States explain to me and to the Left why it is so important to take action against the EU in an area that will not weaken Norwegian interests, but on the contrary? The consequence, after all, of the government's policy is that Norwegian small businesses are charged with more expensive loans than is necessary, and that Norway throws away resources and goodwill completely unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2695	Let me first say that over the 20 years we have had the EEA Agreement, it has been a fairly unbroken line in accepting EU and EEA acts, as a result of the fact that this is the purpose of the EEA Agreement in the areas where EU acts are EEA-relevant. For eight years, the previous government had one case in which to make a reservation. We've put a lot of emphasis on being out in the past and hence, for example. in the field of energy, give views long before EU regulations, including: on proposals under way, where we believe that our interests will suffer as a result of a wrong decision on the EU side. So we're in favour of Norwegian interests. As for the issue of capital requirements, I will be allowed to come back to it, because it is a complicated matter, and we have so far communicated a view that will not necessarily be the last chapter of this story.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2704	As Minister of Coordination at the Prime Minister's office, the Prime Minister, Helgesen, is away with many kinds of things, and one of the areas we talked a lot about before the holiday was the relationship with non-profit organisations. I am aware that a letter was sent to the Christian People's Party, saying that you should look at how you could solve the pension challenges for the non-profit organisations, and you should come back to Stortinget with it before the holiday. Today, NPISHs are subject to new rules and there are very short tendering periods for many NPISHs. Much of this is at the root of the pension challenges. Can the Council of State say anything about how far you have come to work, which is quite demanding for many NPISHs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2711	It is right that I have lost my fingers in many cases, but in the matter of non-profit organisations, as EEA Minister and EU Minister, I have been in the middle of the debate on tenders and the possibilities that apply to Norway under the new tendering law, and it is as EEA Minister and EU Minister that I am constitutionally responsible and responsible for this hall. On the issue of pension challenges, it is to be assessed. It is a topic of major importance, also given that the new EEA rules on tenders may have an impact on Norwegian NPISHs, precisely on the basis of the heavy and large pension costs. So this is a big and important matter that we're dealing with with full intensity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2718	It is true that voluntary organisations are very important in cooperation with the public sector about very many welfare services. That is why I am going to give the Council a new opportunity to answer the question, because I heard no answer to the previous question that was asked. The point is also that the government has ordered an investigation into this, and it is limited in such a way that what is then to be tendered is to be able to go both to non-governmental organisations and to commercial suppliers, i.e. to those who are to make money on it. It may be a delineation that makes it possible to get a negative response, and I think it is quite remarkable if it is that the government's policy is not to want to ensure that we can cooperate with the voluntary non-profit organisations – that it is more important for the government to get to the commercial ones than to ensure that the voluntary non-profit organisations can still be a good partner in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2723	There should be no doubt that the government attaches great importance to NPISHs and is a friend of NPISHs and the great effort they make, including in the area of welfare. Then we are facing an overall review of EU competition and tender legislation, and it was in this respect that we ordered an investigation to see if there was any possibility of reserving bidding rounds for non-governmental organisations, i.e. to continue the model we have had for a few years. It was an investigation that concluded that there is no basis for this, but that there is a basis for other ways of looking at how we can ensure that non-governmental organisations, NPISHs, will also play an important role in Norwegian welfare production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2730	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2733	We are becoming more and more people, and the pressures against the cities are increasing. We live longer and more, and the climate challenges are strongly challenged. It requires us in this room to be far-sighted architects and to carry out a common construction process that is adapted to what is to come. In business policy too, we need the right maps and compasses and a good manoeuvrability. In Norway, the skills and technology solutions of the future are built every day. We live by being a knowledge society. This means that we still have to go further to keep our competitiveness up. We have to get more through high school, because we need more labour. We need to get more people to work longer because more hands need to ensure the well-being of more people, and we need to get even closer cooperation between school and work. All good forces must contribute to the achievement of the target of the low-carbon society. In the Workers' Party, we are committed to generating growth across the country. Then we also need attractive jobs spread throughout the country. A well-organised working life is crucial to tackling the challenges we face. A permanent employee feels safer and will have much more support and greater opportunity to fulfill the dream of buying a dwelling than those temporarily employed. If you're betting on a family, good leave options are important in order to be able to be present for the child in the first place. Modernisation of family policy through the papacy mission is important to us, but the government quickly reversed that effort. Before the elections, the mantra from the right government party was 'New ideas, better solutions', but we have seen very little of that in the nutrition committee, because the industry neutrality has come back with the government change. It's old stuff that comes out again, like in a little bit finer packaging. For the Business Committee, state ownership is an important debate this autumn. The Storing Communication provides guidance on how industrial development should be on that side. The government believes that state ownership is too big and will sell away. They justify it because it is important to get ownership on private hands in order to spread power. What is the question when it's the answer? What is wrong with a state ownership where you enter as a long-term, active and professional owner and make strict demands on behalf of the community? Take, for example: Flight: Why should it be sold? Is it because it doesn't work, is it because the customers are dissatisfied, or is it because the state doesn't run that company well? No, no, no. The air train is a company the community has built, with customers running beyond 100 pst. satisfaction, and it is an important part of the infrastructure around the capital. Why, then, is the spread of power so important? How much is going to spread? Will all the continents of the world buy a piece of Norway each to satisfy the government's power spread barometer? The Labour Party is committed to ensuring state ownership in the future, and we are committed to being a responsible, long-term and professional owner, but also to having a dynamic ownership. To me, it doesn't look like there's been great innovation in the Right House around this topic. The government runs traditional Right-Argument, and if there is a sloppy innovation in that policy, I hope it goes towards the head office of Norway and bet on research and development, and that it will lie as a base in the future management of the company. Although many move into cities, we have a rich business life in the districts. That's also where the natural resources are. For districts, good infrastructure is important, but we are also completely dependent on an instrument that knows business throughout the country and has mechanisms that work. Regional development funds have been evaluated and show a good impact around more jobs and growth across the country. I hope the government noticed that. That was at least the opposite representative Trond Helleland pointed out earlier today. Government parties are also concerned with referring to discriminatory taxes on wealth, but what do they do with that? What new devices can we really expect in this area, and how accurate is the reduction in the taxes on wealth? Well, it best hits the men from Oslo's west side, because most of the wealth tax paid comes from men living on Ullern, in West Aker and on Frogner. And that's not the group that people in Norway think is the most sorry – not as I've heard, at least. Nevertheless, it does not mean that everyone who pays taxes on wealth feels that it is fair and that it hits them fairly. That's why we in the Workers' Party see that it's important that we take a thorough tax debate now when the Scheel Committee presents its report in December. The discussion is warmly welcomed from our point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2748	The languages of the throne are always an exciting exercise and get an angle a little depending on the place of stand – government party or not, geographical affiliation and committee affiliation. This post will also bear the mark of it, but the introduction is most intended as an explanation of why I have chosen some key points based on my own committee when there is so much other exciting that is also signaled in the speeches of the year during the opening of the Storting. What the country needs is a government with a clear desire to bring the country forward through reality orientation, simplification and organization for commitment and creativity. That's what the country got. When the languages of the throne are seen in the context of all the processes already under way, not least within the remit of our own committee, we know that there will be many exciting debates on how to facilitate the forward-looking and innovative development of Norwegian media houses – both newspapers, radio and TV, how the allocation of cultural resources can become even more accurate, and how the film industry can get predictability. All of this is comprehensive and significant processes with an intention of raising Norwegian cultural life in its full range up to forward-looking and sustainable activity. The frameworks for such activities must provide for creativity and independent initiative. Among other things, we know that sport and physical activity, as well as being an important contribution to better public health, are also large and valuable communities that promote equivalency, tolerance, understanding and respect. However, the sustainability of cultural life is the participation of the individual and the voluntary work carried out every day in a large number of organisations, whether it be music, visual arts, theatres, sports or participation in all organisations that contribute to the services of their fellow human beings in the community. A government that clearly affirms its desire to give freedom and room for volunteering is a government according to my heart! It is a solid and good goal to be involved in the work of well-functioning and good communities, in the work where we will facilitate more local decisions, in which we want more decisions to be made as close as possible to those involved, where we will achieve the distribution of power by facilitating government and enlargement, and the flexibility and content to be determined close to users. Volunteering shall be a resource that we use by making it easy for them to be a natural part of any community where such commitment and initiative exist. Then we must not forget in all debates about large sums, systems and frameworks the most important task we might have. It's about the individual who needs an extra handshake from society. Our prime minister has repeatedly talked about closing the gaps in the social network. It's being followed up as a central task in this throne as well. All children shall be given the opportunity to acquire the necessary skills to become a natural part of society and work. This means that children of the families who have the least have to get a handshake in order to be able to participate in social settings and get through education. It also means that children who are exposed to care failure should have the same right to social assistance regardless of whether they live in a large or small municipality. Ensuring these groups of competent procedural and security of good practice, regardless of the starting point for the challenges, is closely linked to the desire for a community reform in Norway. The exercise of care may feel at least as good in smaller municipalities as in larger municipalities, but too many feedback indicates that it is challenging to ensure the same level of care. Child protection must be perceived as accessible, credible and competent in order to ensure the proper security of decisions taken. Such security is important in order to save children from long and challenging rounds of procedure. The government’s strengthened commitment to child protection education and training and increased skills among its staff are good and important contributions to this. Quality is the main objective of this government for all services on which we use public funds. That this is so obvious in our children's work, is a signal we're all going to appreciate, and it's a priority to which it's not difficult to join. It is at least as clear in the choices made in the kindergarten sector. A clear strategy for the competence of all employees shows that children in kindergarten have been given the place they deserve in the government’s work. Yesterday, in addition, the nice announcement that the 2015 budget will significantly improve the social profile of the parent payment in the kindergarten, and that this should be ensured to the inhabitants wherever they live. The re-allocation of social cohesion resources has been sought for a long time. Now we take important steps in the right direction!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2765	The Progress Party believes that knowledge is one of our main instruments for ensuring development and growth in Norway. That is why we are very positive that the government continues to invest heavily in education and research. The Progress Party is also pleased to focus on the content and quality of education. In the long term, this will produce better results throughout the whole training cycle. Norway competes in a global market while we are a high-cost country. We therefore need to have the best and smartest solutions to secure the prosperity and growth of today and the future. The Progress Party believes that knowledge will be the country’s foremost competitive advantage and is therefore very pleased that this is a priority of the government. Although Norway is one of the countries in the world that spends the most money in school, there are several major challenges in school. Among the challenges is the high dropout rate in high school. One out of three students does not complete secondary education, and studies show that poor basic skills from primary school, especially in math, are the cause of the drop-out. This is a threat to development in Norway. The government has shown its power of action and has put a great deal of emphasis on the training of teachers. The greatest teachers of all time have made record teachers do this. In addition, more funds have been allocated to the apprenticeship grant, giving firms even greater incentives to hire apprentices. Norwegian trade union workers are among the best in the world. It also shows the results of Occupations-EM, where young Norwegian skilled workers participated. Three got gold, three got bronze, and a whole nine got medal for very well done work. Congratulations from the Progress Party to these young people, who prove that Norwegian vocational training is at the top! And good luck – I hope that many will follow in their footsteps and bet on vocational training! The Minister of Knowledge presented last week's teacher's vow. This is a direct follow-up to the political platform, which clearly shows once again that the government is delivering. We know that the teacher is the one who has the greatest impact on the student's benefits in school. Then it's also natural to start with the teachers to raise the quality of Norwegian school. There is a clear link between the teacher’s skills at the start of teacher training and what the student can do at the end of education. Therefore, the recording requirement in mathematics is tightened. In order to qualify for education, advanced education will be offered in math, similar to in engineering. Basic school teacher training is proposed to be a five-year master's programme, which will provide more time for training practices. An important part of the Teacher Lift is the creation of more career paths in school. The party of progress is positive in this, as it can prevent teachers from stopping, attracting more skilled people to the teaching profession and raising the teacher's status. Two thirds of Norwegian children's protection do not complete secondary school. It's very serious for those involved, and for society. Lack of schooling among child-rescue children has been discussed in this room, but the discussion has unfortunately continued. This government is capable of action, it shows not least Child Minister Horne's resolute action as she intervened and granted 10 million. kr in order to provide better adapted training for children’s protection. It is the first time that a government grants extra to this important measure. But it won't stop there. The Council of State has instructed all child-restraint institutions to have from now on a harvest a school manager who will arrange for the student to attend and receive school education. The promotion party has as big school ambitions on behalf of child-restraints as children who grow up in their own family. Several speakers have been concerned about getting more groups of professionals into school to relieve teachers. The government has signaled that they will allocate 200 million. SEK to the school health service for the next year. This is a double of what was granted for this year. Several speakers have criticised the government for not providing measures against time thieves in school. The government has already started removing time thieves. Last year, a pilot project was launched with systematic monitoring of reporting levels in primary and secondary education. The aim is to limit reporting to what is necessary and to develop as effective reporting procedures as possible. The committee will deliver its report on 1 December. This also shows that the government delivers. The Progress Party has major ambitions for the education sector at all levels, including the research sector. The Right-Fremskritsparte Government shows the power of action and of implementation, which will ensure the well-being and growth of today and of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2788	Small differences in society are good. It's good for society because it's being created more, and it's very good for people's well-being because then more will be healthy. What we know is that having too little money and being poor leads to illness. So people get sick of it, and everyone also knows that it's harder to get to work. In the languages of the throne, the government says that the differences must not be too big, and I wonder: What does the government really think are too big differences? The leaks that have occurred so far indicate that the government believes that those who have the most difficulty have got too much. I registered e.g. during the weekend that a young adult representative – and we don't serve so badly – was out in today's business and was happy to see to it that you had to cut the child supplement in your disability, and that you had to reduce the possibility for single-parents to get an education – with safe income – so that they actually get a job, because it works. I also recorded that a year ago it didn't take many weeks until you were able to turn up quite a hundred billion dollars to the richest people in this country. I haven't seen any distress among them, but I've seen distress among people who are poor, and I've seen sickness among people who are poor. It affects the children, and it doesn't do anything good. No one gets a job and gets well from getting poor. That's why I want an answer from the government now: What's too big a difference, and how big a difference the government really thinks we should tolerate, because it has to be governing whether they think that the very most disadvantaged, who are too sick to have a job, now have to experience a cut – even for the kids. I am very happy that there are now a lot of municipalities saying clearly that the local economy is too bad. It is cut, and the tax figures fail – two billion dollars – and those who believe that it will not appear in every single classroom or in the care of the elderly in the future must believe again. It is clear that this is about the school being good enough for me to think it is good enough for my grandchildren, or that I can be sure that my 90-year-old mother gets the help she needs. Therefore, municipal economy is so important, but the government has unfortunately succeeded in its strategy of getting all the attention away from the facts about tax failures and the government's poor municipal economy and getting its politicians, councillors and journalists to use all their attention to sitting and drawing new maps and counting citizens and fantasizing about large municipalities. Municipal economy is much more important than municipal size, regardless of whether the municipality is large or small, and municipalities in Norway generally need more money, because they need to create a good school, a good care for the elderly and to have room for culture and other important things. Therefore, the SV puts the community economy so high and grants more than the others, because these things are so important, and they are much more important than, for example, those. treasure bill. So finally, there's a lot of dissatisfaction in the world, and some people are trying to come to Norway to save their lives, or to get a better life. I think we should understand that. The government has now had an offensive to send out many children who have been here for a long time. Today, the Minister of Justice admitted that the legislation passed to strengthen children’s rights in asylum treatment does not meet objectives. The hearing authorities say that there is a tightening, as SV has said. That is why EN is now promoting a proposal that we should put these matters at risk, because it will necessarily take longer to get a regulation that actually ensures that the cooperation agreement says it should ensure that more children will be able to assess their needs when they have been in Norway for a long time and become part of us and are a Norwegian child, as our children are. They're our children. That's why it's so important that all parties vote for this now, because if it's the case that all parties now agree that we should take more account of the children, you can't at the same time sit still and see that these children are sent out of the country until they get to try their case against the new legislation. The new legislation needs to be adjusted to what the government has submitted. The government has admitted to the Storting today. That is why I encourage everyone to vote in favour of the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2807	After the voters voted the red-green government last autumn and gave a historically strong bourgeois majority in this hall, the parties in the red-green opposition have also begun to behave a little differently. The representative of Andersen's own party leader, Audun Lysbakken, is for example: far more clearly and clearly than its party-leader colleague in the Workers' Party. The representative Lysbakken said in a reply earlier today that SV will reverse the government’s tax relief “krone for krone”, and that this will in addition to introducing a tax of 9 billion. kr. This is, of course, very clear from the party SV. In order to follow up on this clarity, perhaps the representative Andersen might say something about this means to reverse the actual reliefs that the government is introducing, or whether there are other taxes the representative Andersen thinks should be increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2814	What's the whole point of this is that we have to spend the money we have in this country in the best possible way, so that as many people as possible get a good life. That is what is the main objective of SV's policy, and through it we should also be able to pursue a good industrial policy and a good distribution policy, which makes more people stay healthy and get a good school. That's why we want to do what Audun Lightbaken said in his post today, but it's clear that we'll also be able to see in many other ways to distribute the tax burden, in such a way that it becomes more fair, and that everyone is involved and contributing. It is one of the most important things and one of the things that the government representative Asheim supports is to remove, namely that the richest should not be involved and contribute to this fissure layer. What is outrageous about the idea of removing taxes on wealth is that the richest people in the country will be free passengers. This is the SV very opposed, because we believe that you should deliver according to your ability and get as needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2821	The representative Asheim took one of my points, i.e. that after they got out of the government offices, they had broken in many different directions. I saw that, among other things. in the case of the desire to strengthen the local economy. There was a residency where one tried to bypass each other, and SV wanted most when it came to spending money on municipal economy. What I am reacting to is that a set of the label ‘bad municipal economy’ on the scheme that we have taken into account. You won't be right if you just say that many times. It's not a bad municipality arrangement, nor is it right to say that it's bad when you compare it to the previous years with red-green layout. Adjusting one for pension expenditure and demography, the scheme is better for municipalities next year than it was in 2014. So what I have to ask the representative Andersen about is: if our arrangement, which is better than the red-green scheme, has the label 'bad', which tag will the representative put on the eight years when SV has been able to influence the local economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2830	In the years that we have influenced the municipal economy, the municipal economy has been significantly strengthened – every single year. In addition, we have distributed revenue in a much fairer way. We mean by municipalities that we mean with people, that the rich should be involved in sharing the expenses, so that those municipalities that have little income, too, can have opportunities to have good schools and provide good care for the elderly. I record that the government we now have will change it, so that all the municipalities in my county, Hedmark, will lose. All municipalities in Uppland and all municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane will lose, and north of Trøndelag it is probably not a single municipality that will win on the scheme that the Progress Party and Right sees for itself, namely that the rich municipalities will retain more money. After all, those with low incomes will get less. In addition, this year's tax fails at over 2 billion. kr. We'll compensate for that. Here it seems the Progress Party is failing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2839	The representative, Andersen, is concerned with differences in society. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned with equalizing social differences in schools as well. We know that students with a low socio-economic background are overrepresented in both special education and non-response statistics. We believe that all students must have equal opportunity to succeed, regardless of social background. Then we have to listen to the teachers when they tell us what are the main challenges in school today. The Christian People's Party wants to give teachers more time for each individual student and to ensure that fewer students fall off the load during the first years of school by increasing the teacher's density in the lowest grades. My question is whether SV is positive to be on such a small school lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2844	Yes, giving all kids the opportunity to grow and realize all their abilities and opportunities in life, SV will be on – from kindergarten, through the support we give to the families, and through the school. What we know is that there is unfortunately a lot in school today that makes it most useful to those who are doing the best before. Having more teachers has been in their programme for several years, for several periods, so we agree. To me, it's quite obvious that if you have a class of very many students, you don't have enough time to give each one the attention they need, whether you're from a disadvantaged family or not. Those who come from a family of poor advice and are disadvantaged need even more than others to be seen and get personal help. That's why we're going to have fewer students per teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2852	The debate on the throne gives us a very good opportunity to discuss the major issues and contexts of politics. The starting point, the speech of the government, given by His Majesty the King, gives us an opportunity to assess what major challenges we face, and against such a background, it is very disappointing that the government does not even mention in one word the challenges we have associated with social dumping and labour-life crime in its throne. In our opinion, social dumping and crime at work are one of the major societal problems we face, for the issue also deals with crime, the black economy and trafficking in human beings. That is why the red-green government presented three action plans to meet those challenges. In our period of government, we experienced that our fight against social dumping was also a fight against the Right and the Advance Party in Stortinget. But lately, some new tones have come from the government. Obviously, the government has also discovered that crime, the black economy and trafficking in human beings are involved. This happened after the media put a searchlight on the matter, and not least after the social partners – represented among others. by LO, who sent a letter to the government in April, a letter that the NHO also felt was important for the government to follow up – got a meeting in September, where the actors who could meet the black economy and the crime of working life were united. It came out very positively of that meeting, and it is good that we have a serious working life that takes matters up. But government policy has still not changed. Permitting rules are a good example. Large, serious companies in Norway ask as little as they can to be allowed to be serious, i.e. keep regular workers, invest in them and develop them, in order to improve productivity. The government's proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act do not help to strengthen serious work life. Temporary employment makes it easier to be unprofessional, in addition to the fact that there is a proposal that sets us back in terms of social security. Increases in overtime from 10 to 15 hours a week are also not family friendly. If you increase the requirement to eight hours — instead of today’s five — to get one hour of approved rest watch, it doesn’t give more flexibility — it gives less flexibility for those who want to make tournaments go up, for example. It's immature and old-fashioned. Temporary employment was a situation we had before 1977 in Norway. Eight hours of work was introduced in Norway as early as 1919, so when the government believes it should change these points towards what it was before, it is legitimate to call it modern. There is a lot of flexibility in today's work environment law, and it has been constantly changing. As late as last June, we changed the Working Environment Act, but then we did so that we strengthened the rights of workers – in that case, the possibility of getting permanent employment for people who had a temporary job and who went on part-time shifts. So we strengthened the Working Environment Act. At all, there has been a generation after generation of politicians who have had one ambition: to make the entrance to the labour market and to be in the labour market better for the next generation than it was for the previous one. So for the first time, we're experiencing a government that wants to put us back in line with the good developments we've had in the world of work. The daily policy undermines the safety of the labour market, thereby also undermining the fight against unprofessional working life. From our side, I can assure you that we are going to continue working on new proposals to tackle the fight against social dumping and crime at work, and I want to invite all the good forces in society to join in and find solutions that will enable us to meet the challenge of threatening the serious business community in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2880	I want to start by congratulating May-Britt and Edvard Moser on the Nobel Prize today. I'm absolutely sure it's on behalf of everyone – I'm not sure anyone has done it before from Storting's pulpit. It's a great honor to them, to the team they've had with them, to NTNU as an institution, which for many years – under changing governments – has worked purposefully and systematically to build a world-leading environment. Of course, it's also amazing fun for Norway. If we're going to get ready for tomorrow, we have to reform and change today. A red thread for the government has been quality – from kindergarten to research. It also permeated the speech of the throne that was held the other day. Our goal is to have even higher ambitions for Norwegian school than today. We have a school that is very good in many areas. We have a school where the students thrive. We have an incredible number of skilled teachers who teach children to crack the reading code every day in classrooms around Norway, teach them to score even higher in mathematics – give the students good vocational education so that they can become good and solid skilled workers. When I say we're going to have even higher ambitions, that means that we're going to go another step further. We're going to go one more step in order to get even more people who can exploit their full potential. We know from the numbers we have, that Norway has a low number at the top levels of, for example, Mathematics. That means we need to have higher ambitions when only 12 pst. of those who are grade 2 in primary mathematics, are able to complete secondary education. That means that we need to have higher ambitions for every student in order for everyone to learn basic skills and have a safe school to go to. The government is working along several fronts with this. For approx. A week and a half ago, we launched the Teacher's Lift – At the Science School team. Both parts of the title are important -- the teacher's promise because we know that what matters most for students to learn more is that good teachers get even better, and on top of the knowledge school because we know that it's not just useful to rust individuals if we can't build layers. There are several grips on the Teacher Lift from the government. I want to highlight four. The first is that all students will meet a teacher with depression in mathematics, English and Norwegian. The new skills requirements for teachers will be introduced as soon as possible. This means that teachers at primary school will have at least 30 credits in the subject to be able to teach mathematics, English and Norwegian. In high school they must have at least 60 study credits. In order to achieve this, we require the municipalities to close the current exemption within 10 years. It also means that we need to continue the historical development of continuing training, which is what the government is doing. Point 2: We're changing teacher training. We have said that we aim to introduce a Master's degree in practice from 2017. Point 3: We want to increase the recording requirements – from 3 to 4 in mathematics – to get into teacher training, with today's rules as a starting point, but with increased demands. We will further consider further tightening. We also say that we should get more career paths in school. In 2015, we are going to launch specific pilots to test it out – of course in consultation with the parties. Then we're going to continue the team building at school. This means that state resources need to be even more targeted at those municipalities that need additional assistance. But that also means that we must continue to invest in programmes that make a teacher who has taken on further training, for example. study scores on how to communicate mathematics to middle school students, experience a school where you can come back, where knowledge is shared — used — and where others can provide professional feedback. Many schools are very good at this today, but there are unfortunately too many differences between schools. Team construction means that both politicians – national and local – school management and teachers need to move in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2907	It is not uncommon for students to try to present their achievements as better than they are, but it is a little more unusual for the school minister to do so. Last fall, there was $50,000 for each apprentice company, which amounted to NOK 5000. In winter it has been to allow the door to be locked for students who are late, or to confiscate mobile phones and computers. It fell to the ground when it turned out that it was already allowed. Now the Minister of Knowledge says that he should introduce the character requirement 4 into the subject math for those who are going to the teacher's school. That sounds great. But in this teacher's promise, there's something quite different. It says that there should be an advance in mathematics for applicants who have not achieved the grade 4 from high school, so you should be able to get in without 4 from high school given that you are taking a compulsory course. In the election campaign, the Right said to introduce the grade 4. The working party said it's okay with the grade 3 if you take a compulsory course. What is the policy of the government? Right or Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2916	Let me just first mention the VG statement about order in school. It was very clear in the notice that this was a clarification and clarification of the rules that already exist. What's amazing is that in parts of the sector, for so many years, there has been an uncertainty, which I'm absolutely sure is that many educational politicians and other politicians have received feedback about, and which we are now clarifying in a new circular that makes it clear which rules you have to deal with, and what you can and can't do. Then the government statement is very clear that the government wants the character requirement 4 both in Norwegian, English and mathematics. But it is here, as in all other areas of policy, that this must be balanced. One of the challenges with a quality requirement is that the applicant can fall in the short term. Now I think that in the long term this can be a contribution to making teacher training more attractive. However, in the short term it needs to be balanced, so we have implemented a compensatory measure with an advance, which means that we need to qualify for level 4. Then we evaluate further escalations gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2923	First of all, with the Rules of Procedure, we asked what questions had been raised by the Council of State, for example. This by locking the door. It turned out that there were zero questions that had come to the ministry, and to make it clear to the Council of State: zero is a terribly small number. So to this with the character requirement: is it right or wrong that you can still get into teacher training with the grade 3, given that you are taking a compulsory course? You could say what you want at press conferences, but in Stortinget you have to talk the truth. What the Council of State said from the interlocutors was that a requirement for grade 4 should be introduced. You shouldn't, you're still going to have the grade 3, but you're going to have a compulsory course that doesn't give you a new grade in higher education, but that, of course, gives you knowledge in teacher training. The same is true of all students meeting a teacher with depression in math, English and Norwegian, as the Prime Minister said at a press conference. Yes, they will – in 2029. That means that the students who start school in the fall are not going to experience this. Those who start in five years might experience it in 10th grade, when this is fully phased in. Is it not also true that this should be phased in in 2029, and that it has already been solved because the teachers who are now trained must have this depression requirement – thanks to the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2932	The new system of mathematical character requirements means – and it is well described in the Teacher's Lift – that you have to have the character 4, and if you do not have to go through a compulsory course to qualify for the corresponding grade 4. I understand that the representative Giske finds it difficult for the government to do what we promised in the election campaign. After eight years of red-green rule, we promised five years of master's education, and now we have put forward the concrete plan for it. When the previous government came up with a qualification requirement for teachers, we said that this qualification requirement should apply to everyone in school. Now we're putting forward a concrete plan to add it. And not only that: we also follow it up in the budgets, not only with big words and election promises about billions of further education, which the Labour Party came with before the elections – we actually follow it up with concrete escalations every year. In addition, we will address the time thief report that came in 2009. Then the red-greens still had three years to sit. We are now going to follow up that report and remove time thieves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2941	Knowledge and competence are more than just study scores. About 10 pst. of all young people in Norway want to take a year in higher education. For some, this becomes a year when they find themselves, where they become sure what they want to spend their study time on. For some, this is a year when they get back the motivation to go to school, so that they get ready for further studies, and so that they don't end up in the drop-off statistics. For some, it will be a year when they acquire knowledge and skills that have a value in themselves, but that may also be necessary for admission to further studies. In the last year's budget, the Christian People's Party was to negotiate start-up funds for a new high school in Kristiansand, which is to offer young, single mothers. I'm glad. My question is whether the Council of State sees the social value of the higher education institutions, and whether the higher education institution is a school form that the government will continue to invest in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2950	I see the value of high schools to the highest degree. We give a lot of support to the national colleges, and we're still going to do that. You also get extra points to go to high school. Colleges are 150 years old this year, and it's also a great opportunity to remember what they've contributed. But it is probably also the case that the great promises made by the Right Party government in the field of knowledge are about raising school, quality raising in kindergarten, raising for higher education, more world-leading environments and, above all, more breakthrough research there. So the big money we're going to spend on the projects we promised and talked about before the election. But higher education institutions are also an important part of the education system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2957	I'm a little sorry to say that, but I really think the Council of State kept a little boring. Just as the Council of State said in its article now, so we heard at the press conference a week ago. I expected us to get a little more concrete and a little bit more fun from the Council of State, actually. What we are looking at this summer – and this summer’s teacher’s strike – is that there is a crisis of trust between teachers and authorities. It's probably something that's built up over a long time, not least after the introduction of the Knowledge Lift, which we're all behind. What the teachers want is more time for the students, time to be a teacher, and we also heard in the debate that the Council of State and I participated in earlier, that there was no boost – that was the high school teacher who was there. I know that the Council of State and representatives have previously referred to a report that will come by Christmas. But I wonder if I could be allowed to challenge the Council of State if he could have any ideas about what kind of time thieves he wants to remove.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2973	I think we have to deal with the time thief problem in a slightly different way than we've done up to now. One thing is the discussion of several occupational groups within the school. I believe that the government is doing well there, including: with funds for 400 health oyster posts, coming this year. It is an important contribution to that discussion. One of the challenges with the Kolle Green Section election, which came with its report in 2009, was that it was very much about overall school management, class management, but it was too little of a hunt for the concrete time thieves, so what is it that actually takes time? Then I believe that we should review and assess documentation requirements, and we should review what is going on in the individual school – whether there are some of the state schemes that require too much documentation, without leaving enough room for teaching quality or increased safety for students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2980	I also want to follow up on what the representative Tingelstad Wøien was into, the time spent in school, because now the government has presented a teacher's promise. There I think there were a lot of good steps to strengthen education, to strengthen school, to strengthen the status of teachers. But I think it's a little special -- and I think it's a little deficient -- when the Council of State presents a teacher's vow and doesn't address the most important challenge in school today, that's time use. And I agree with the state council, which just said that the last time we looked at the time thieves in school, it ran a little bit into the sand, and it didn't come out that much. I want to be concrete and just ask the Council of State if he is willing to set a concrete goal, such as. The left has done, which has the front 25 pst. - We'll cut 25 pst. in school bureaucracies and work out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2987	I'm not going to refuse to set a concrete goal, but I think it's a little bit harder just because the time thieves in school don't just have the origin of one place. If it was so simple that it was just the state that was the starting point for the thieves of time, it would have been tempting at least to think that the previous government had done something about it. Then it wasn't done enough, at least. So we have to go through pretty thoroughly and look at the state time thieves, and we have to weigh it up against other important considerations, for example. legal certainty of pupils and knowledge of the school. Then we also have to look at the municipality's time thieves – to what extent is it, for example. municipalities that impose much more reporting than they really have to, based on what the State guidelines are? So I think we also need development projects in school to look at the time thieves that originate in each school. I will not reject such a percentage limit, but I will not bind to it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e2995	After the Minister of Knowledge had presented the teacher promise, I had a talk with a group of teachers. They were disappointed in what was presented. One said to come and call this a teacher lift, isn't it an abuse of the encroachment? These are many measures that have been pushed forward in time, and they are also pushed on municipalities. One said that this isn't a teacher's vow, it's a teacher's motto – one has only failed to take responsibility for doing this, whether it's into the future or it's over on other actors. If this really was a teacher's vow, one would have made sure that there were several teachers who could run this learning and follow the proposal of the Christian People's Party and SV. But it doesn't want the Minister of Knowledge, because he doesn't think there's any connection between more teachers and better learning. There are very few who can understand it as logical, but that means the Minister of Knowledge. My question to the Minister of Knowledge is therefore, as Minister of Knowledge: Does the Minister of Knowledge think that there is consensus in the research that more teachers do not have [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3002	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3005	I think it's an advantage that I get to answer myself for what I mean, but luckily the representative asked a question at the end. I don't think there's any connection between more teachers and more learning. I think the most important thing is the quality of the teacher. What I fear about the norm that SV has held for many years – now you didn't get any closer when you put yourself in government, there came at last 600 teaching positions, which we have otherwise retained – is that it will lead to more teachers in some parts of the school, but fewer teachers in other parts of the school. Otherwise it had to be considered to lower the requirements, for example. to get into the teacher's school, to get more teachers out of school. I think that would also be a very bad idea and bad policy. We're doing exactly what we said we should do during the election campaign. We said we were going to introduce a five-year master's education, the plan is coming now. We said we should introduce character requirements in teacher training, now we start stepping up. We said we were to introduce the continuing education promise of the times, now we are presenting the plan, and we are continuing to escalate it in every budget, where it was almost stagnant at least in large parts of the previous budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3014	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3017	We have a new security policy situation in Europe. The aggressive behaviour of Russia in Ukraine challenges European security. Conflicts that occur elsewhere can also reproduce in our direction. The northern regions remain an important military strategic area for Russia, and the northern regions are Norway's main foreign policy area. Today, the North is characterised by security stability, while we see that climate change can lead to increased shipping, increased activity and increased value creation. This may in the long term give rise to conflicts of interest. Norway is distanced from the use of power demonstrated by Russia. We stand by and support our allies. At the same time, it is important for Norway to continue cooperation with the Coast Guard, fisheries surveillance, rescue services and the border commissioner as well as the building of trust with the people-to-people cooperation in the north. It is up to the Defense to guarantee our national independence and political freedom of action. Security and enhanced preparedness are important areas of government commitment. This has contributed to concrete actions for the defence sector: the Hunters' Command on Permanent Preparedness, several Coast Guard sailing days, increased training and training for the Army and several HV response forces. There is also a clear signal for the construction of new infrastructure for F-35, our new fighter aircraft. In addition, the defence sector shall continue to implement measures to strengthen the capacity to support the police and other civil governance. A joint counter-terrorist centre has been established between the Police Security Service and the Intelligence Service, which has already delivered well. I am thinking of the increased preparedness and clear action that was taken in the summer in the light of the terrorist threat to Norway. Internationally, Norwegian forces, together with Denmark and other partners, have contributed to the removal and destruction of Syrian chemical weapons stocks. In Iraq, the Defence with Air Transport Capabilities supports the humanitarian crisis and contributes five staff officers to the headquarters to plan and direct the international military efforts against ISIL. The world around us is changing strongly in terms of security policy. This new situation also has implications for our defence planning. The Defence Minister has therefore asked the Defence Manager for a professional military advice on how the Norwegian defence should be developed in order to meet the new challenges. I want to commend the Minister of Defense for taking these steps now, so that we have the opportunity to adjust our capabilities and operational capabilities in line with the security policy challenges around us. The defense delivers high quality outside and at home. They have modern platforms and competent employees. In order for the defence to be a relevant instrument for national crisis management, more parts of the structure must be made available in a shorter time than is currently the case. NATO has recently updated its contingency plans for the strengthening of Norway and Norwegian sea regions. This will set expectations and requirements for Norway’s contribution. The preparedness and the arrangements for the defence must be designed in such a way as to be effectively included in the allied plans. At the same time, the government must continue the initiatives undertaken to increase its operational capability. War, terror and natural disasters threaten development in several countries. In our globalized world, it is wrong to believe that crises and conflicts are far from affecting us. It is important that we now further develop our operational capability and secure flight finance. It is through international cooperation that we can ensure peace and secure borders – important prerequisites for growth and well-being. The development we see around us confirms the importance of NATO as a community of values and a security anchor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3034	There's a lot that's good in our country, and seen with the world's eyes, we're sitting on the green branch, not just out of the green branch, but on the whole branch and maybe even in the whole tree. In the world, there are major challenges, and some of the main challenges are climate and population growth. Here too, there are some of our challenges. The transport sector is the solution and response to both of these challenges. We need to give priority to public transport and rail in urban areas, so we can achieve our objectives. As an ombudswoman, I keep asking myself, what seems good as it is, what doesn't seem quite as good, and what doesn't work at all? Then I ask myself, what recipe will work to achieve those goals? What will make everyday life better for those who live in the country, that they get the offer they want, and that we build the community so that there is room for everyone? It's important for the Workers' Party to ask those questions, because it's the recipe for the challenges that separate us from the government. An example of what works, and we shouldn't do anything about it, is the Flytrain. It is a great success – passengers are satisfied, and the money comes into the community, which can once again be used on more trains and on more public transport. The government will sell out of the country one of our greatest successes – that's the Workers' Party against – where private players will put our money in their pockets. Something that doesn't seem quite as good is the railroad. The train is often standing, and it's crowded about the place. It's not because the railway sector and the employees who don't want to, but because they can't. Much was done under the red-green government, but still they are running on old infrastructure with signalling systems that are several decades old, that are vulnerable and for periods that do not work at all, and for which the NSB and the railway works become victims. The railway sector needs money on the table. They need money for maintenance, they need new material and new infrastructure. The government says they want to reorganize on the road and on the track, we in the Workers' Party are open to that. We're going to be involved in coordinating and reorganizing if it leads to more railways and more roads. But we don't want to do that for the reorganization. We wait and see what the government will do before we decide, if necessary, for a road company and the reforms in the railway sector. The government also announces a toll reform – we are also in favour of it and have suggested it in the past. We want fewer bomb companies and less bureaucracy, because we want more to go. But if the government's recipe is that it's going to be cheaper with single passages in the toll stations, but that the projects are going to be more expensive in total, with perhaps $1 billion, as we've seen that the government is now adding up to a couple of projects that have come to the Bighold, we're against, because it's going to be more expensive for people most and for society. One of the government's recipes that we're convinced will not work is to launch and privatize the railway. There's nothing to suggest that there'll be more railway out of it. The railway is an integrated and comprehensive system with many economies of scale. Experience from Europe shows that Switzerland and France, the best on the railways, have been committed to maintaining integrated and public railway operations, while competition in Sweden and the United Kingdom has had major consequences with both poorer train provision, poorer safety and poor working conditions for the workforce. Railways are an important part of our welfare state, it's expensive to build, but society has a lot to do with it: we get efficient transport, we get less greenhouse gas emissions and pollution, and we get safer roads. The Gjøvik track is often used as a good example of competitive outsourcing and privatisation – and I have seen it again today from committee leader Hofstad Helleland. I am very happy that the Gjøvik course is going well. But then the story is to be told just as it is, for the story and the truth is that it was cut to the bone on the Gjøvik track. They made a bad offer, and they didn't have money. When it was offered, the money pot was increased considerably, which led to a much better offer. We're not opposed to privatisation for the sake of privatisation, but we need to see what works and what doesn't work. We also do not want to participate in public–private cooperation and buy roads or runways on credit. The government has a recipe that says renewal, simplification and improvement. The working party is afraid that this can be costly, delaying and lengthening.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3051	People in Norway, residents and businesses face too many obstacles in their everyday lives. A good public sector should be a competitive advantage for our country, and it should be the foundation wall to contribute to opportunities for all. It is imperative to be a good organizer, and the meeting with the public sector is unfortunately not always the experience that it should have been. We have a responsibility as politicians to make sure that the dreams of the inhabitants of Norwegian municipalities can become reality. I am proud that we have a government that builds its policy on freedom and trust in the inhabitants, where the «construction rules» shall no longer be a word synonymous with «frustration». A better society grows out of creative power and willingness to work. We're going to make that right. We in the Right have seen a measure that it will be easy to find happiness in Norway. We're going to simplify Norway to the best for most people, and the work is started. The direction of the decision is used to solve the problem, e.g. by digitizing more public services and making them more accessible. They lift the requirement for original travel and layout bills. Simplify employers’ reporting on addition ratios and income data, so that they should report only one space. These are three good examples of schemes that will all contribute to increasing efficiency and better task solving. It will make everyday life easier. In addition, these measures are estimated to provide significant savings of over 1.8 billion. kr in the year of business and municipality. In addition, there will be savings for government enterprises. A simpler everyday life for citizens means a lot, including for creativity and competitiveness, and it helps to create safe jobs. Another bet area for the government that I'm glad to be able to move forward is ICT. We in the Right are technology and future optimists, and we believe in man and their ability to find new solutions to the challenges we face, whether it concerns the environment, climate, transport or health. The government has seen clear political IT targets. The public sector will become more accessible and more digital. Electronic communications are to be seen in a broader context, and the government has made good progress with a significant and important work on a national economic plan, ensuring that all good forces – public, private, different departments and responsibilities – are used for broadband development. The end-user must be focused, and one should facilitate a non-digital class society, where technology can help solve many of the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3064	Before the elections, many claimed that the party of progress in government would be a disaster for the country. The oil fund would be used up, populism would take over, and society would be ice cold and cynical. Fortunately, everyone can now see that the left-hand propaganda was obviously wrong. The right-hand party government is highly manageable. There are nevertheless some who have experienced a tougher everyday with the Progress Party in government – not ordinary people, as the left side warned against, but those who have got the tougher with the Advance Party are a group that has been dressed with silk gloves for too long: the criminals. Unfortunately, the review of the justice field after 22 July showed that justice policy had not been a priority task for the red-greens. When the Right-Fremskrit party government took over the government premises last October, only 5,000 out of 11,500 police officers worked on police duties. Norway made the worst use of police resources throughout the Nordic region. Only 13 out of 354 posts had been open 24 hours a week, and there were fewer policemen at work when the need is greater. I am pleased that the Right and Advance Party immediately took hold. The Minister of Justice quickly started work on a police reform that will lead to more police in the streets, and I am sure that the problems raised in the July 22 reports will be resolved in a smooth manner. The precarious situation of Police Norway in the autumn of 2013 also made immediate action necessary. 350 fresh police posts have come into place. In addition, approx. 100 police officers by entrusting duties to civil and other agencies. The simple task of deporting prisoner transport to the police services in four police districts alone has released 40 police officers. With a pen stroke, these four districts now have 40 more police officers who can patrol the streets, investigate crime and contribute to operational action. Where the Stoltenberg government used the police as the most expensive taxi service in the country, the Solberg government provides more security in the streets. One of the things I'm most proud of in the first year of this period, is the removal of the limitation period in criminal proceedings for killing and serious assault. This has been an important matter for extremely many victims of violence. Intrusion often leads to traumas that allow several decades to go by before a victim manages to collect enough tanks to go to report. The fact that the case was previously dismissed as obsolete was a new infringement against the victim, but this time on the part of the state. This is a gross injustice that the Progress Party has fought to remove for over ten years, and now the Storting has finally done it. Among other things, with the good help of a Christian People's Party with heart space for the weakest, this was an important victory for a new policy that takes the victims seriously. It's rare we have a government that ignores the Storting's clear decision, but the red-green ignored the penal code for eight years. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice is not in charge of the office, who wanted further suspension. It has been cut through, and new criminal law will come into force in about a year. It is of great importance that we get the criminal snipers in place in the new law. For example, the penalties for violence in close relations are increased from 6 to 15 years. The left side would like to talk about the importance of combating violence in close relations with parties. The Progress Party is not talking – we are delivering results through a strict and fair punishment. Unfortunately, it is not just the police the red-green government chose not to give priority. At the change of government, prisons were overcrowded, with 98 pst. Coverage and 1 200 persons in pay queues. The release of criminals in prison on the street is totally unacceptable. So we got to this immediately, and through three hectic budget weeks last year, the government parties, with our supporting parties, managed to free 88 new prisons. Nor should we forget that we also have acute problems in the short term, as well as building more prison sites. That is why I am pleased that we also have a Minister of Justice who has made sure to improve the arrangements for the transfer of compensation, so that criminal foreigners can zone in their own country. In addition, there is now a dialogue with the Dutch authorities on the rental of prison capacity until one or more prisons are in place in Norway. We're going to build more prison sites in Norway too, but this, of course, takes some time. However, I look forward very much to the big message that Stortinget gets now in the autumn, where we will draw up the lines for the capacity of the criminal services in the years to come. It is not possible to clear up all the problems and massive delays in the justice sector overnight. However, I can certainly stress that we have now finally received a government that takes the justice field in general and the victims especially in the utmost seriousness. The right-wing Party government has already taken a number of important steps to ensure that the police will take security back into the streets in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3087	"Norwegian students will learn more," said the King when he read the paper. It is difficult to disagree with the intention of a school where students get high learning outcomes. At the same time, it is important that the government, in its eagerness to raise the basics, does not forget that students are whole people and need training, stimulation and mastery in a wide range of areas. There is also some concern in schools that the subjects own all the hours, and that the time they had before to conduct general training — democracy training — is gone. I therefore hope we can have a debate in the future on how we can ensure that the good values that our students bring with us from school today will not disappear in all the focus on the basic subjects. The government has also recently presented the so-called Teacher Lift. Teacher training is now to be converted into a five-year education. This is something left has fought for too long, and we are happy that this becomes a reality. I think that when we have a system that divides education into bachelor's education and master's education, it is both necessary and good that teacher training is raised to the master's level. I am also convinced that this will affect the status of the education and the teaching profession. Together with the Left, this government has also invested in continuing training for teachers – a very important measure. There has been a great lack of such places for a long time, and it may not be that it is by chance that you get further and further training. You can't have a system where teachers feel like they're winning Lotto if they're allowed to participate in further education. We have to have a system to make sure that everyone gets it within a certain time. After a harvest of strike and conflict, it is essential that we start working on raising the status of teachers and rebuilding confidence. Being a teacher is both important and meaningful. As a society, we need to make it possible for teachers to do the job they're assigned to, and not everything else. In the autumn of the year, the Left will propose a 25 pst reduction in the bureaucracy of teachers. Unnecessary reporting and planning requirements must be cut. In addition, we want more new health sisters and commercial staff to be employed, so that the teacher is given more time for work and education. Nor has the government submitted a plan to keep the teachers we have in school today, and to recruit new ones. We will need about 11,000 new teachers towards 2020. The left therefore wants a plan to recruit more teachers from other professions and to introduce more senior measures to maintain the teachers we have for as long as possible. The government has also announced major reviews in research and higher education. Earlier in the harvest, there were some disturbances associated with the structural changes in North Norway. At least we in the left were contacted by several people who were concerned that we would no longer have colleges in this country. In the left, of course, we are concerned that there should be good quality both in the research conducted by the different institutions and in the education provided. We are therefore looking forward to the debate that will come, because it will always be necessary to look at whether the money we spend is being used correctly, and whether we get good quality out of the money. That's what's most important to us in the left. It is not necessarily an objective that all higher education institutions should either become a university or join a university. It must be good if we have some very good colleges in this country that deliver excellent educational quality to their students. As Rogaland's representative, of course, I am concerned about the financial conditions of the so-called new universities. It's like the University of Stavanger got university status ten years ago and has an anniversary this year. But these new universities have since their creation been underfunded in relation to the established universities. It's a historically contingent bias that seems to only be amplified year by year. Last year, the Left had an average of 100 new scholarship holders, and the new universities were welcomed in their distribution. We therefore expect that the commitment to higher education and research will again be reflected in the budget presented this week. Not least, I hope that the new universities are taken care of, so that we can continue the good trend from last year. Earlier in the autumn, the so-called SHOT study was published. It gives us some important indications of how the students' health and well-being are. Although there's a lot of good on that front, there's a lot of things you should be worried about. Among other things, the study shows that every five students report severe psychiatric symptoms. This is twice as much as in the rest of the population. It's worth noting that women are struggling with this much more than men. The trends we've seen in the past in other areas as well. We have expectations and are excited about what is in the budget that comes on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3113	The throne is the government's work programme for the coming year. It says something about what areas are on the government's ambition list, and what is political priority. It was therefore surprising to note that neither equality, culture, media nor sport policy was mentioned. Neither did the parliamentary leaders of the parties mention these important areas in their speeches. In the field of equality, it may not be so strange, with an equality minister who believes that equality has come too far, and with a government that works every day to reverse today's gender equality policy. For a year we have heard of freedom of choice, arm's length distance and innovation in cultural policy. So far, we have seen that the actual solutions that relate to these words are about budget cuts. Option is whether it is crimson books or children's books to take the cuts. There is a demanding situation for the press, where the loss of advertising and subscription revenue is to be resolved unless the press support and higher VAT are applied. I'm sure that's what committee chairman Harberg thinks when he says that one has to be real-oriented. Yesterday, changes to the key were presented as news. But these are changes that actually joined Stortinget a few years ago, when the biggest news about the Norwegian sports model was discussed. So it's not a new idea. It's still good, assuming that the measure of 1 pst. the State budget shall continue to be used for culture. If not, a good idea has got a bad solution. Nor did the census give any answers here, and we have not heard anything about the 1 pst solution in the posts that have been presented from the government parties. After the OL request was parked at the Right Group meeting, the parties have struggled to be the best friend of the sport. Sport is Norway's largest organisation, sport engages people across generations and cultures, and it includes. You can be an actor, an organizer, a trainer, a volunteer or an audience - you decide for yourself. You are offered a community built on fair play rules, excitement and fun, and you are stimulated for your own activity. We have jointly arranged for these possibilities. Through wise decisions, we have contributed locally and centrally to the organisation of organised urban and urban activities. The political commitment to Norwegian sport, breadth as top, is great. The sport is referred to as glued to the community and contributes to better public health and to inclusion and diversity. ‘For me, recruiting girls with a minority background is not the challenge, but the challenge is where to train these girls.’ – The quotation is from a report the Minister of Culture received in April this year. It tells everything about what increased activity is actually about, namely facilities for training, competitions and self-organised physical activity. Just supporting the development of civil engineering is and will be the best and most important sport policy tool we can contribute to. The OL case contributed, as is well known, to identifying a major need for installations in Oslo in particular, but in fact also across the country. The expectations of a sportslift are many and large. That neither culture nor sport got its well-deserved place in the government's throne, I suppose it means that it takes the more room in the government budget proposal that is presented later this week, and not just as recycled proposals that have already been adopted earlier. For the purposes of sport, the government may favourably simplify and save work by maintaining and tightening up the exclusive right model instead of exploring how commercial gambling companies can eat from the plant shed. Neither sport nor society needs it. Liberalisation is not for sport, not for the fight against gambling problems and not for the simplification or reduction of bureaucracy. When we are going to build the future Norway, it must also apply to the cultural field. That is why we must bet on culture through the cultural promise. The working party will do something about the lag in sports facilities, and we will propose zero VAT on paper and digital media. In this way, we build the country further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3133	In the Health Declaration and in the practical work on the Stortinget over a decade, the government has now placed great emphasis on tripartite cooperation in Norwegian working life, between trade unions on the one hand, employers on the other, and the state on the other – to put it that way. We've had some 'test bricks' that this government has already solved on its first attempt. We were able to land reasonably easily the agreement on inclusive working life between the social partners. There we developed a trusting and good cooperation. Then there has also been a fairly good pay settlement with moderate wage growth. In total, there has been relatively no noise around payroll. That being said, the government has clear ambitions for a modernised working life that is in line with the future. For this reason, the government now has a number of consultation proposals that will be sent to the United Kingdom as soon as possible to amend the Working Environment Act. This applies, inter alia, to: to remove power from one of the social partners for the approval of alternative rotational arrangements. In a close relationship with the social partners, there must be a balance sheet. With regard to vetoing tournament schemes that are locally approved by local employees, employers and trade unions, very many people today, whether at Ladengården in Bergen, whether it is in a hospital in Trondheim or around or at Vea or Tananger hospital, experience increasing resistance from the trade movement. It has been said by the government, the Right and the Advance Party that we want to remove and have the Labour Inspectorate take the final decision if there is disagreement locally. Because what's good for the nurses' union in almost every case, is ok for some in the trade union in some cases, and they have different arguments. It clears up the government. We have a completely different use of the overtime averaging without increasing the total use of overtime. Today, you can work 200 hours of overtime if you are not in a trade union, 300 hours of overtime if you are in a trade union and 400 hours if the Labour Inspectorate says yes – in a year. The proposals made by the government do not concern the 200, 300 or 400 hours, but what the government has proposed is that for some periods during the life of the employee and in a workplace, it must be possible to average, so that for a few months you work much and correspondingly less other months. We also want an embellishment of the rules for Sunday work. Most people don't want to work on Sundays – students like to do it. Nursing students and auxiliary nurses, who otherwise practice on weekdays, have no opportunity to work more than every other weekend with the current work environment law. It's a little ironic, because they can work more than every other weekend, but they can't do it for the same employer. They can, for example, worked on a nursing home on Friday, Saturday and Sunday in one municipality, and then they can work in the neighbouring municipality on the weekend – back and forth between two municipalities. So you follow the organisation number of the employer and not the employee. Then we have a good deal of suggestions regarding temporary employees, several alternatives that I am happy to discuss more specifically here in the storeroom. The alternative from our government is that if you become unemployed today, you can get a daily allowance for 52 to 104 weeks. It is, in practice, a temporary employment for two years. Alternatively, if you are not doing well, you can receive redundancy pay for up to 4 years, which is also temporary in practice. So for us, the whole point is that we want temporary employment in the ordinary working life, which increases the chance of getting a regular job. This, together with an extensive effort both on the Labour Inspectorate and on criminal sanctions to overcome the increasing crime of working life, means that we have a government and a large number of people who, I believe, are able to manage well in the future working life here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3149	In the census, the government determines that 2015 will be an important year for the climate. Yes, it will be an important year – the year in which the global community will be seriously tested to see if it can actually manage to unite on an ambitious global climate agreement. In December 2015 in Paris, we get the answer. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has produced a series of reports that state that climate change is here, that human activity is the main cause of global warming, and that climate change we have seen over the last decades has had an impact on nature and people on all continents and oceans. Today, unfortunately, we are far away from being able to reduce the heating to two degrees if the severity does not sink. The most pessimistic scenario is that we can lie down to get a world that is almost five degrees warmer than it was in pre-industrial time. It can't happen! It is not surprising that the UN is stressing and saying that action is urgent. In the throne, the government says we have to change. It's fine. But the speech is neither particularly ambitious nor concrete. Last year, the debate on the throne was marked by the fact that we had a completely new government, and no matter what they were raising, they were generally told that the government had to have the opportunity to deliver before we could start asking the demanding questions. Now they have had the opportunity to cancel the course and deliver for a whole year. I can't see the government taking the climate problem seriously. They're talking about a new and enhanced climate settlement, but when we ask for it, it'll be quiet. They talk a lot about a green tax commission – and green tax commissions are certainly interesting and fine, but we actually don't have time to reduce climate policy to samples, commissions and investigations. We don't have time to just mention the problem, there's an urgent need to get action in place. And I'm very concerned that it might seem that the government has given up that we are going to achieve our climate goals because it's demanding. Yes, it's demanding, but we have the opportunity to reach them. We can do that through wise decisions about the budget and other matters we deal with all year round. And the worst of all is that we know what's going on. The Environment Directorate has even compiled a list of where we can put in place measures to achieve our own 2020 target. There is an action that is needed. I believe that we need an enhanced climate settlement where we focus on technology development, more renewable energy use and a shift in the transport system and sector and urban policy, and where we also contribute internationally and contribute to taking the bill for climate action beyond our own borders. We need a real boost for our big cities because they're growing. It affects how we have to build, how we have to live, and not least how we transport. The growth of passenger traffic in metropolitan areas cannot be taken by car. Growth must be taken by public transport, by rail, by bicycle and by foot. If we are to achieve this, we also need to put in place clean measures to reduce car use, such as alcohol duty. That will require political courage. There is clearly also a need to pursue a forward-looking railway policy. I have noticed that someone believes that the future solution for the railway network is to open up the competition for several sections. Countries like Sweden and the United Kingdom have painful experiences that it is not necessarily the smartest thing to do. We need to continue to put the car charging system in a climate-friendly direction. The conversion started in 2006 has so far resulted in a reduction in emissions from new cars of around 30 pst. That's pretty good. Today, the Transport Economics Institute says that the electric car bet has been wise. We have had a lot of climate for the work we have done. I therefore believe that the charging system is becoming important in order to ensure climate-friendly solutions. The development of climate technologies must also be a key element of future solutions. I do not like the signals that have now come, that the ambitions of the government statement on CO2 capture and storage may not be there anyway. I think it's impossible to introduce the climate ambitions we have, if we don't get in place and get to roll out new technology. I believe that we must work together with industry to ensure the establishment of full-scale capture and storage of emissions in Norway. In cooperation with industry, we can strengthen the ability to invest in environmental technologies, energy conversion and climate-friendly industrial growth. Finally, Norway must continue to take responsibility globally, through forest management and by contributing to the financing of climate action and the development of, inter alia, renewable energy in other countries. I therefore hope that the government will start at a slightly different end than they did last year when it comes to the state budget, where the first thing they gave to the Stortinget was a proposal to cut in just these areas. I hope we release that round dance this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3171	At the elections last year, the people announced that they wanted a new policy. The country has been given a new government, and with the good support of our partners in the Left and Christian People's Party, we are doing well to give the country what the people want. The government is delivering in the areas in which we went to elections. We are lowering taxes and charges for ordinary people and Norwegian business owners today to strengthen competitiveness and create safe jobs in the future. We're taking a historic boost to the continuing education of teachers today, because it means a lot to lift students' learning in the future. We are renewing and improving police and preparedness today to have security and security for our values in the future. As a society, we need to take care of the weakest – in the justice sector, this means a child who experiences violence and abuse. In many children's homes the waiting time has been too long. The crackdown in our Parliament gave a clear political signal that the waiting time should fall, and new regulations must be put in place. The government is taking this seriously, and a process has been initiated to bring down the waiting lists. Furthermore, I have a clear expectation that new regulations for children’s homes will soon be completed. In the field of justice, this year we have several major issues for treatment in Stortinget. The police reform is now working on it, unfortunately without the largest opposition party being involved and taking responsibility for this important job. I heard today that the head of the Judicial Committee, Hadia Tajik, of the Workers' Party, said that they have invited several times for a cross-political debate on police reform, but that they have not received a response. Is it really so that when the government invites to broad cooperation, the Labour Party says no and believes that the right thing is to attend debates to which the Labour Party invites? Then I ask myself, is the problem for the Workers' Party that it is the wrong addressee of the supplier responsible for this important reform? We need a police in the future that can be robust enough to meet tomorrow's crime scene. The Gjørv Commission report and the police analysis revealed serious deficiencies in the police. Norway does not have a uniform police force today. There are too many variations in the police service provided to the population. The analysis concludes that the police are neither well organized nor equipped to meet the crime scene we are facing. The government platform also states that we need to restructure the police to create a powerful organisation that will be even better to prevent and combat crime. For the Right in Government, it is a goal with the new local police that the police should be operational, visible and accessible with the capacity to investigate and prosecute criminal acts. The right agrees that this will require increased grounding in the police. Here, too, the government has shown its willingness to prioritize the police. It's promised 165 million. NOK 350 to 350 new police posts in next year's government budget. An important message coming to Stortinget during the autumn is the Criminal Welfare Notice. If we are to succeed as a society in creating the necessary security and legal certainty for crime victims, it is important that we have enough room for those sentenced to unconditional imprisonment. I have been on several visits to Norwegian prisons and received feedback from many others. These visits and enquiries tell me that the expiry did not start in the last year. I am afraid that the notified notification will show a significant maintenance kit that will require a massive investment pressure in the years to come. When we know that the planning and prioritisation process for building prisons is long, it is regrettable that the outgoing red-green government no longer planned an increase in prison capacity. If it had been the will to prioritize this work, we could today see that the spade was already in the ground. In today’s newsprint, we also hear that the proportion of foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons was so high — one in three prisoners do not belong to Norway or are not to be integrated into Norwegian society after settlement. Then there is an important and correct job the government has started when it has now started talks with the Netherlands for the temporary purchase of prison places there, until we have built up our own capacity. Action is also demonstrated by the fact that the Minister of Justice has announced that the Penal Code of 2005 will come into force in the next year – the red-greens saw this separately in 2022.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3192	I want to take this opportunity to commend the government for once again raising the importance of school and education. A good school where students both get solid vocational training, where they socialize well into society and learn to become good, conscious citizens of society, and where they develop as whole people, is crucial to our future. Therefore, I am pleased that the government is clear that it will give priority to the school, and that it shows the willingness to invest in education for children and young people. Last week, the Teacher Lift was launched, and we know that in the future, the Storting will deal with exciting and important issues such as: deals with the quality and structure of higher education. I'll draw out a sentence from the throne that I bit me notice in. The king said: ‘The government has confidence in the teachers as professionals.’ I'm glad to hear that, and then I hope that the government will also listen to the teachers when they tell you what are the biggest challenges in school today. Because it's probably the teachers who know best where the shoe prints. This summer many of the country's teachers were on strike. Then the teachers gave some clear signals that it is well worth listening to. When the head of the Education Association was going to explain why the teachers went to strike, she was clear that this was more than just working hours. It was about a long-standing frustration among the teachers. It is a matter of giving teachers the opportunity to exercise their profession in a good way, and it is a matter of giving teachers sufficient time for each student. Today, many teachers experience that they do not have enough time for each individual student. In a survey conducted before the summer, three out of four teachers replied that they do not have enough time to follow up the students in a good enough way. This may not be so strange, because in addition to the fact that teachers have been assigned more and more tasks in recent years, class sizes have grown simultaneously. This means that each teacher has been given responsibility for more students, and then it goes without saying that there will be less time for each student and less time to adapt to the training. There is little doubt that this development will have consequences for students. While classes have grown, the need for special education has increased. More children than before fall off the load already during the first few years of school, and we have to spend huge resources to close knowledge gaps later in school. This is not the fault of the teachers. It is not about lack of skills or competence among teachers, and it is not solved alone by putting teachers on the school bench again. It is about the allocation of resources in schools, it is about the framework laid down for teachers’ professional activities. The teachers said clearly about this this summer, and I hope that a government that says it has confidence in the teachers as professionals will take these signals seriously. The Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal that will give teachers more time for each student, a concrete measure of early school effort where we put in more of the good teaching resources early in school. In this way, each teacher is given responsibility for fewer students. This will make it easier to adapt education, and in this way we will be able to close the knowledge gaps as they arise instead of using more and more resources in special education later in the school. That way, we can get the best out of our teachers, and in that way, we can make it possible for the teachers to be able to lift the students. It's all right with a teacher's vow, and of course it's important to bet on the skills of the teachers, but the most important thing is that we manage to lift the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3219	As the Central Party parliamentary leader, Arnstad, began today, the government has announced major structural changes in several sectors. In the dictionary, the word 'robust' has become the same as 'large'. This concerns changes in the municipal, judicial, health and education sectors. I refer to the notified structural change in the university and higher education sectors. Norway has a well-decentralised educational structure, with more than 50 permanent places of study. It has repeatedly been discussed whether we have a too decentralised educational structure at higher education level. In the opinion of the Center Party, the decentralised model has just led to the fact that we have managed to raise the level of competence across the country and now is a country in the world that others see as a model for lifelong learning. The close and decentralised possibility of higher education has contributed to local and regional economic development. The government has announced a big message about the structure of higher education. Through the media, we have become aware that there has been some uncertainty about the structure in North Norway to be discussed as part of the overall debate on the structure of the rest of the country. Broad knowledge and democratic treatment are important when major and important structural changes are to be adopted. The Minister of Knowledge has created uncertainty about the government will bypass the Stortinget and speedily merge the universities and, where appropriate, the universities in the north before the Storing Message is presented. I had hoped that the Council of State had clarified the government's position on this, today. The Council of State has previously stated that the structural process should not start with drawing the map, but with an assessment of the quality requirements to be met by all study facilities. It seems reasonable and good, but it is very important for the Centre Party that quality requirements are not designed in such a way that they disqualify institutions in advance. In reality, drawing a new map – before a person discusses quality and funding – will be a great way to do so. The debate on structure and quality is becoming very important for Stortinget this winter. For the Central Party, it is important that we first discuss the role of the different institutions in the knowledge society – for employment, private and public, and for development elsewhere in the different regions. What are the future societal tasks of universities and colleges, and how do we feel this can best be solved? The Minister of Knowledge said in Dagbladet this winter: ‘We have too many small and vulnerable professional environments offering the same education and training.’ I read it as if the Council of State says that a professional environment at a small institution is qualitatively worse than a professional environment at a larger institution. Before we define what's small and vulnerable, we have to define what we mean by quality. To date, institutions have acted as if the number of publications and students produced is equal to quality. Follow-up of students and the best possible professional quality of those who are ‘produced’ do not have a separate quality category. Is e.g. Narvik University — a small university, but large in its subject area, technology — bad? Both business and other working life in the region are very pleased with the candidates who graduate from higher education. The centre party is concerned that the structural process is now rigged so that the government gets the answers they want and that the university's own weight – in terms of size – will be governing in the direction of reorganization of the higher education system. The creation of professional environments in smaller institutions could then be lost by weakening the multi-disciplinary nature and flexibility that currently allows rapid response to the needs of the regions. We are also concerned about the future of professional training. I should like to challenge the Council of State to tell us what is the government's higher education and university policy in the future. It is absolutely amazing that NTNU and researchers who have received the Nobel Prize today, but we do not expect all institutions to have tasks for such a research environment. We want, as in sports, both top and width. The traditional role of higher education has been to serve regional knowledge needs. Business in Norway needs it. In addition, we need the tips. The centre party wishes answers as to whether the government plans a major reorganisation reform in which institutions are to be merged under the cover of quality-enhancing, where publication points and peaks are defined as quality. The Central Party also wishes to respond to how the social tasks of the current colleges are to be carried out in the future. Who should be responsible for meeting the regional needs of primary school teachers, nurses in the first line and engineers needed by local employment? A new division of labour in the university and higher education sectors cannot be drawn up without seeing the whole of the social tasks of these institutions as a whole – for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3261	"Sometimes it's completely eely," sang Odd Børretzen. That's what it feels like to be a right-wing politician now -- with a heart beating for those who need it the most in our society. For in health our government has shown more action in one year than the red-green claws through eight. To help those who need it the most, is an important goal for our government. In his post today, the Workers' Party Jonas Gahr Støre said that there is still a lot of work to do on drugs and mental health. Yes, it does after eight red-green years. That's why we've made sure that drugs and mental health are prioritised. Already in our first budget, we earmarked 255 million. kr for the purchase of private capacity in the field of alcohol, mental health and rehabilitation. In addition, we increased the number of drug treatment sites by 200 from private and non-profit sources. Let me dwell a little on the word ‘partnership’, because Jonas Gahr Støre also used it in his speech, that we should solve the health challenges in the future in good partnership. The difference is that when we in the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about using all the good forces, we mean all the good forces – the public forces and the private forces, whether they are ideal, voluntary, whole-sided by the state or owned by private people. This is because we believe that taking all good forces in use increases diversity, increases patient freedom of choice and increases activity. Also in the municipalities we see results: we reintroduced the earmarking of 343 million. SEK to work in the municipalities, and we are further strengthening the municipal economy by 400 million. Dr in the field of alcohol, mental health and health care next year. It means 650 new professionals who can work directly in the municipalities with those who need help — as quickly and as early as possible. Our social security network has failed many of the most in need of the help of the big community, and therefore we must continue to give priority to addiction and mental illness, closer follow-up of children in child protection care and adults with reading and writing difficulties. The Right Party and the Advance Party also keep promises to prioritize those affected by various forms of chronic fatigue disorders, ME or fibromyalgia. The government has announced a bet next year to meet these patients in a new way. They shall be provided with assistance for clarification and diagnosis at an earlier stage. Only in this way can they come back to their study faster, to their work and to their lives. Although our government in this year's budget gave health regions the largest budgeted growth ever, it is nevertheless too many patients who wait unnecessarily long for absolutely necessary treatment. Waiting for diagnosis or treatment makes us all unsafe, afraid and, in worst cases, much sicker. It also creates an alienation, because disease is the biggest threat of falling out of work. We will introduce free treatment options to increase freedom of choice for patients and to help reduce unnecessary waiting times. We give the public hospitals the opportunity to treat more patients and stimulate hospitals to improve through healthy competition with approved private hospitals. The first to be given free treatment is those who have so far been sitting at the bottom of the table – the addicts and those with mental disorders. For many of them, the choice of treatment itself is crucial if the outcome is to be good. Last week, the Workers’ Party’s Torgeir Micasen wrote in a reading article that ‘it is more than enough to correct and improve in Norwegian hospitals’. Yes, I fully agree with the Micasen. This is why the government is now working on a national health and hospital plan that enables us to guide the specialist health service to meet the needs of the future. It's not just about where hospitals should be, or about what functions we should have; it's also about whether we train enough health professionals, whether we have an overview of the need for medical devices, and about an ICT system that works so that it's possible for healthcare professionals and patients to communicate. In almost all areas that affect us — whether we are patients, whether we are related, health professionals or suppliers — the government has announced important reforms and changes to rig the healthcare system to meet tomorrow’s needs. Next year there will be a new public health notification, a new drug notification, a primary health service notification and a wide range of important new ideas and better solutions for healthcare. The government will also create a escalating plan in the drug field and in the rehabilitation field. The Right Party government is changing and improving Health Norway, and we are creating the patient's health service, where the patient and not the system should be focused. And that's why I say, sometimes it's completely eely!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3284	Then we have come to speaker No. 50, the representative Knut Storberget, who is also 50 years old today! Congratulations on the day!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3287	Thank you, President, it was very nice! You will need all the support you can get when you get to such a mature age, but it also provides the basis for some reflections in such an overall debate as this. My party leader, parliamentary leader Jonas Gahr Støre, said today early that much of the political challenges we are facing are about to build the country. When younger generations hear this term, they might get a little bit of a strange feeling of 'what's that now?' But many of the political challenges we face are, in fact, about building the country, but also about building the basis for the coexistence that we're going to have on the entire globe, about making sure that we can now contribute to growth both in Norway and globally, which is actually green, and which is sustainable, and that gives me the germ to point to some of the needs that I think we are facing in the years to come, especially taking into account the challenges we have in our primary industries: soil and forest. It is essential that we be able to identify the needs during the debates we are going to have in this house, but it is also important that we get together on good policy solutions. In this way, I liked what I heard from the parliamentary leader in Right, Trond Helleland, say earlier today about this. In agriculture, we face two major national challenges: firstly, that more food needs to be produced here — for volume reasons, but also for food quality. We're in a situation where we have less than 40 pst. Of what we feed on, we produce marine life. We need to increase this production, and the red-green government said in its reign that it would be important to increase this by 20 pst. by 2020, to keep track of population developments at least. There is a significant import of cereal products, of soya and other important ingredients that we use in food and cereals, into Norway and which makes us more vulnerable. Not only for the sake of whether there is enough food – that we shouldn't have it – is perhaps a distant thought for most of us – but that the food we eat is actually of such quality that we stay as fresh as possible. This is one of the reasons why, in the course of the year’s agricultural settlement, the Workers’ Party felt that the economy in the system was too weak, and that it had to be ensured – also taking into account that it wanted to build the country, literally – to have a sustainable economy in this country, especially around the production of cereals. I am optimistic and I hope that in the debates that come after this, also in such a field, we can agree that it is absolutely essential that we manage, among other things. strengthening the economy of agricultural production, and in particular towards the grain economy, so as to reverse the negative developments that are now in proportion to our degree of maritime supply. The second element in this is – and the summer debates clearly show how vital this is – that we are able to ensure that the food we receive is safe and good. And the situation around, for example, antibiotic resistance is so serious that I am happy that the government, among other things, in meeting with the EU tomorrow, will address this. However, in order to achieve this, it is absolutely essential that we also be able to strengthen Norwegian production, and therefore I hope that the government will continue to contribute to a slightly larger activity in the future in order to increase Norwegian production. The last thing I want to mention is that one thing is having plenty and healthy and good food, but the competitive situation we're looking out there, on the way to the consumer, is worrying. Today we have heard that further purchases mean that we get fewer major players to ensure something of the most important thing we buy, namely food. There is every reason to demand — including from the government — more political action in order to help remedy a rather strenuous competitive situation and to help us get a better selection, but also more reasonable food. In this way, for example, promoting a law of good commercial practice in the daily food industry – which has been laying pots for a long, long time – is a good grip. But these are important political challenges that require something more policy than what we have seen from the Minister of Agriculture so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3306	It is easy to reward the government for the value messages and ambitions that can be measured in the climate area of the throne. I have also, of course, recorded that the census was reasonably free of concrete climate policies and measures. The number does not contain so much about Norway's future as an energy nation, except to conclude that oil activity will no longer be the engine of economic growth. Should the world be closed by coming close to the 2 degree goal, we know that today's energy mix – about 85 pst. fossil and 15 pst. renewable – need to be turned upside down by 2050–2060. Not only does it require a large-scale development of world-wide renewable energy – it also requires systematic technology development, which makes renewables or renewables alternatives where different fossil sources are the only solution today. Heavy transport is an example. Part of the process industry is another. Taking into account the world’s energy consumption today, around 100,000 TWh – Norway, one of the world’s largest renewable energy producers, produces around 140 to 150 TWh per year, i.e. a drop in the sea – the need is enormous in a 2050–2060 perspective. Only in the vicinity of Norway, in the EU, which currently consumes about 20 000 TWh energy per year, with a self-production of just under 1 000 TWh, an 80/20 pst distribution, in favour of renewables, represents a huge potential market, even with deductions for ewes and CCS, carbon capture and storage. Also at home, domestically, we have a lot to do before we are in the vicinity of an 80/20 pst. distribution for the benefit of renewables. Annual consumption in Norway is about 130 TWh renewable and 180 TWh fossil. The base and transport sector remain the third of the fossil consumption in Norway. Very much of the consumption can and must be converted into renewable energy or renewable energy carriers in the long term. So only in 10 to 20 years will the need for renewable energy be significantly greater than today – which in turn leads to enormous opportunities for Norway as an energy nation, even in the renewable age. Every paradigm shift has its challenges — often in wave valleys. The Norwegian renewable energy industry is standing in the middle of such a wave valley now. The availability of new renewable energy is increasing much faster than the market demands it and technology makes it possible. Low prices make it difficult to defend new projects, whether they relate to hydropower, wind power, wave power, geothermal heat or other forms. Should the Storting be in a better position to unload us through such dilemmas or waves, which are, to a great extent, real problems for those who run stores in this market, it is an intention to have a long-term steering gear that enables us to look past and, not least, to take action at different milestones on the way to the goal. The left therefore looks forward to the big news about energy, which the government has announced in 2015. To get such a message, the Norwegian Energy Policy, Climate and Norwegian Energy Industry will become fast and completely missing today, the Left expects the message to be holistic and take care of the whole energy field, and to see the possibilities and threats to the climate problem and what is happening in other countries. In other words, it should be an energy and climate communication. It must have a time perspective of 2050-2060 and outline different scenarios, with the possibilities and threats it brings to Norway as an energy nation. In order to ensure that 2015 will be an important year for the climate, both in the field of energy and climate communication and next year's state budget, the Trontals are committed to fruitful cooperation with the government party. In both cases, the left will be a constructive opposition party, with an arsenal of concrete policies and solutions. How demanding we are experienced, depends entirely on the degree of practical will and action the government shows and follows up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3325	This government has spent the first year making the premises for further progress. Our work on linking living and working regions is a major priority in the way we think about transport policy. It's about making sure that we get better commuting, so that the everyday journey that people take becomes more predictable, provides comfort and flexibility, so that it becomes attractive for people to choose collective means of travel, instead of being pushed into them by removing parking spaces and other things. We just have to make it attractive to choose the environmentally friendly solutions. We have been aiming to facilitate better and more efficient freight transport between regions and into and out of the country. It is about getting a better interaction between rail and truck or between port and truck, so that many people choose to use the railway as their main route, rather than the truck doing the job. If we move more goods from road to rail and keel, it means reduced wear on the road network, increased road safety and improved comfort – if you can put it that way – for private cars on the roads. We also know that there is a challenge to the competitive situation in the truck industry, where many Norwegian operators and serious foreign players who pay for themselves meet an unprofessional industry that does not pay for it in full. Then we can have as much good a strategy as we just want on the railways and the cold, but if we don't get cleaned up in that industry and make sure it gets really priced, the collective funds will also lose. We've had a bet on better roads and railways. I'm recording that some people think that you have to do either one thing or another, but we think it's important to have both, because it gives us some flexibility for both business and the traveler. We know that people have different needs, like the same person as well, but on different days. We're giving priority to getting new projects in place. During the year that passed, we accelerated 12 different road projects in different ways. We simplified the planning period for 13 other road projects. It allows you to start building faster, and it's only when a road is finished that society benefits from it. At the same time, we have given priority to the maintenance set run. I believe that is also a bet we must continue. It is of little comfort that we build many beautiful, new roads if the ones we have already built are standing and decaying, and that we contribute to more traffic accidents, because the road surface does not have the quality it needs, or because you do not keep the road cleared along the edges. We have also said that it is important to bet on public transport in cities. It's also part of the commuter journey. In the election campaign just over a year ago, the four opposition parties at that time promised to contribute 50 pst. of the investments in the major cities. We have been aware of that even after we came to power, and I am very pleased that an ever-wider majority in the Storting supports that commitment. That's good. But the budget is one thing – the systems under which we're going to work is another thing. Just boasting about how much money a grant is not a goal in itself. To say which projects one actually realizes and to show that one takes the cost side more seriously is very important to us. That is why we have launched many reforms aimed at building more roads and railways and more ports faster, better and cheaper. In this regard, we are working to reduce the planning time to cut through and make decisions even where it is controversial, but we are also working on setting up a separate road investment company. The Storting gave its approval to the revised budget before the summer of this year to move forward with this work. We are also in the process of a rail reform that will be presented to the Stortinget in the years to come. There will be a toll reform, with the aim of reducing administrative costs and financial costs in order to save the costs of driving. A national port strategy is also being worked on, with the aim of getting more goods on the keel. In addition, one in the year that went on began to build an infrastructure fund that is now 30 billion. kr, which during this period shall be 100 billion. kr. It is once again about predictability in what one does and ensuring system changes that make one get more money back, and that one gets better the everyday journey and the freight situation in that country. I look forward to continuing that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3359	In a look-up in the VG earlier this autumn with the head of the Transport Committee, Linda Hofstad Helleland – otherwise with a quite appropriate heading, ‘Go and go!’ – she said about the blue-blue railway policy that the NSB monopoly is now clearly to be broken by the blue-blue bad guys. She further stated: "We shall brush out of the tube so much toothpaste that the Ap does not get to put it back." It might have been interesting to hear what the Minister of Transport thinks about that statement. Does he agree that this is a precise way of describing the government's collective and railway policy? I'm not going to ask you what kind of toothpaste the Minister of Transport uses, but what is this toothpaste symbol, what's going to be squandered? Can the Minister of Transport explain this to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3369	As the government has informed Stortinget about several times, we are working on a railway reform that aims to give us a better travel offer for people in commuting situations, the journey one takes to and from work, and make sure that we get more goods on the rail. These are goals that I am by no means the first Council of State to express, but I see that the development of freight transport has not gone in the direction that one has had visions about before. This suggests that one does not have a good enough system, good enough structures in the railway sector to actually bring about a change. It's about poor maintenance, it's about too low and too low frequency, it's about too high costs compared to the alternatives. Our reform is about bringing together more authority in some bodies, and leaving other bodies, such as the Commission. NSB, get to be a more competitive company. What we see is that where the NSB is exposed to competition, namely on the NSB Gjøvik Railway, they also deliver the best customer satisfaction. It is important to get overtime reforms, therefore the toothpaste.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3374	The working party is committed to the road investment that lies ahead of us in an offensive national transport plan that is now behind an overall increase. The government has said that they will promote a toll reform. It has also been repeated by the Council of State in its statement today. In the meantime, the government opens up the possibility of extending the repayment period for toll projects. It happens on the E18 through Westfold, where toll tariffs are reduced. The reverse of this medal is that the recovery period is extended from 15 to 20 years, and increased interest expense gives an extra charge from which the government cannot pay. Instead of renewing, simplifying and improving, other projects can be destroyed, extended and, where appropriate, delayed. The point is pretty straightforward: if we extend a loan, we have to pay more interest. Does the Council of State mean that this grip gives more or less money to the road investments we have ahead of us?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3379	This government shall comply with its national transport plan. That's our clear ambition. It is a job that requires a lot of effort because in the budget in the first year NTP was not funded in line with needs, it was heavily underfunded. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party now says they will also be involved and contribute to fulfilling the NTP, because it was therefore underfunded. In the case of the bomb reform, the objective is not to extend the loan period. I am aware of what kind of case the TV 2 made, but what one has to take over is that at exactly the E18 in Westfold, it is part of a transitional arrangement. What we're going to work for is to bring down administrative costs, bring down real financing costs by collecting the toll companies' loans, bring the interest rate down that way. But in the transitional regime, it is about dealing with the guarantees that were currently given from the Vestfold County Municipality. There one could not just reduce the interest rate without having to change the whole system. Therefore, a temporarily chose to extend the tolling period, but it will be reduced again in the final scheme, and then the financing costs are significantly lower than with the previous government plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3386	We in the Christian People's Party are pleased with the offensive attitude of the Council of State to devise new solutions and to invest heavily in the transport sector. The climate agreement outlines a measure of the average emissions from the new car fleet in 2020 of a maximum of 85 grams of CO2. In the same agreement, it is stated that the electricity car benefits will be maintained in 2017 or until 50 000 electric cars are sold. Everything indicates that this target will be achieved as early as 2015. The electric car deployment in Norway has been one of the most effective measures aimed at consumers in order to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. However, we are also aware that electric car investment has major challenges, including: linked to charging station infrastructure. How will the Minister of Transport ensure a continued transition to a more environmentally friendly transport sector even after the first 50 000 electric cars have arrived on Norwegian roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3400	Let me first commend the representative Gruvan and the Christian People's Party for giving very good signals in connection with the important reform processes that are coming. I think the Christian People's Party also appears to be forward-looking and offensive in order to achieve better systems around this. In the case of electric cars, an electric car is in reality a dream of a Frp: no tolls, no parking fees, almost no fuel costs and no taxes to the State. It is very good to see that there are as many people who share the dream of that kind of charging policy for cars. With regard to the 85 grams of CO2, to which reference is made, it is important that we also look at the role that biofuels can play, where they actually have more than 85 grams of CO2, but where they have it from renewable sources and not from fossil sources. This means that the Storting and the government together should have a good discussion about the entire electrical imagery – how to get on with the success you have had, but also extend it to include more modern environmentally friendly cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3415	I am very pleased that the Council of State used part of its contribution to talk about the need to get more goods over on both the track and the sea. It's an ambition that the Center Party is very happy that we're going to work on, and I really perceive that it's a cross-political desire to succeed with it. Then there are probably many different measures that need to be put in place. There are many challenges currently related to the Norwegian transport industry. We see that they're struggling. It's unprofessional foreign actors, it's increasing cabotage, and I'm quite worried on behalf of an industry that's important for the distribution of goods abroad. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State use the space for action to tighten the cabotage code? Because we see that there is a problem that we should do something about. What is the Council of State's response to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3424	We've already done a lot with regard to the area of the truck. It is about traffic-safe cars, about drivers’ driving skills, but also about one’s being in line with the rules for cabotage. When we took over, there was a working group of my predecessors who looked at the cabotage area. The group made a report that had many recommendations. Some of them are very controversial, but the vast majority of them agree. We have followed these up, both by starting work in the Ministry of Finance, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and in the Ministry of Justice to coordinate police, tax authorities and labour supervision in the follow-up. In addition, when we introduce a mandatory bomb, we may have given that we agree with the Data Protection Agency, we will be able to gain a better overview of the movement of foreign vehicle trains in Norway, simply by registering them in toll stations. It's not a job that's done, I can't guarantee that we get on target, but given that the Data Protection Authority doesn't create trouble, there we want an important tool to monitor foreign cars in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3433	Now we've been to most modes of transport, so I can talk a little bit about bicycles, which are also a necessary means of transport, especially in the big cities, where we need a much bigger share of bicycles as part of an environmentally friendly transport system. But there are often also some problems that arise. There may be a problem with signage authorities, not having local control, and there may be disagreements about the standards used for the bicycle network. In Oslo, you're in the process of making your own bike strategy. You're talking about maybe making your own Oslo standard for bike paths, which will be different from the state road system's road standards. Will the Council of States be open to a flexible attitude, just to enable cities to make their own solutions, so that we can finally get a complete and good offer of bikes that can hit the wide range of cycling and of the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3442	Cycling is important, both in relation to the objectives set by a cross-politic process from a public health perspective, and also in terms of good urban performance. I think, as the representative also points out, there are different solutions for different places. One has probably been a little too square when it comes to having a manual normal that you have to follow everywhere. Today I have actually sent a letter to the State Road Service asking them to go through their bike policy and the standards they have – if we actually do it too expensive to build new bike routes, so that some places leave because it costs too much, even if the need is obviously large. It is about allowing local authorities, counties and municipalities to try out new strategies, even if things tend to go a little way across the manual, just to look at the results. So I also think that the entry of the electric bicycle and the growth that is will contribute to the fact that more of those who are not active cyclists, but today are simply strangers to cycling, will choose this in the future, and then it will be necessary to facilitate bicycle paths and safe places to travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3453	The Minister of Transport is of those who have the opinion that if you just get a road company in place, things get fast. As he says, the road company should increase the pace of implementation on large projects. If it is true that a road company should squeeze toothpaste out of the tubes, it is incomprehensible that the Minister of Transport does not do the same in the railway field. When the Progress Party put in opposition, they proposed as late as 2012, in the context of the treatment of the Climate Action Communication, the following: ‘The Government asks the Government to set up a State Railway Development Company, based on the ‘Avinor model’.’» So my question is, is Solvik-Olsen still standing for what he promised before the elections? And is this something we can now begin to look forward to in connection with the treatment of the railway reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3466	The answer is yes. And what delights me is that all those who voted against this in the previous magnification period, now start to demand that the companies get in place. I'm glad about that, because it shows that this government is able to contribute to the social debate taking a completely different lead. Instead of just saying that the Vegvessen has the only responsibility to build a road, that the railway works are the only ones responsible for the railways, one now sees that even the operators in the industries, both in road and rail, are looking for new possible ways to organise themselves, simply because the annual approach to budgetary appropriations, excessive planning processes and lengthy political processes to get decisions, often take ten years to plan before one sees the results of what one has started. There we think that a little bit different ways of organizing this will give you different benefits. But that is why it is important to stress that the Road Service will still have a very important role on many roads. We also want more OPS a lot of places. And then the road company will have a responsibility. Similarly, a railway finder will present the railway reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3473	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3476	The situation in Ukraine and the Middle East has marked much of the foreign policy discussion in the last year. Later this month we celebrate that it's been 70 years since the Red Army entered Finnmark. We celebrate it because it's part of our liberation. For other countries where the Red Army entered, the invasion was not part of their liberation, but on the contrary the beginning of a control from Moscow that lasted until the 1990s. Because there was only one area The Red Army left, namely Finnmark. It means that we have a completely different approach to our Russian neighbours than the other NATO country has. We have been given an ever better neighbourhood, which was underlined in the part-line agreement that was negotiated between Stoltenberg and Putin. This neighbourhood policy must continue, because the conflict with Russia is not about the north, but about Russian acts of international law in Crimea and the eastern parts of Ukraine. We support the right of the Ukrainians to decide on their own foreign policy and support the EU's sanctions. We also see that the Russians arm their defenses after a long time with little renewal. That means we need to have increased vigilance in the northern regions. Our operational capability needs to be strengthened in all areas of defence. But we also need to strengthen cooperation with the Russians in the north in research, environment and people-to-people cooperation. We need to increase the focus on joint projects at a time when the tensions are increasing. The greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II continues in Syria and spreads to Iraq. Refugees need more than ever support for health care and schooling. That is why I have great expectations of the government's aid budget. We cannot accept the cut in the share of assistance for a time that we are now in. We see cruel actions from ISIL. World society must join forces to combat them within the framework of international law. The government has announced that Norway will contribute five staff officers to the military effort, and we in the Workers' Party have supported this. Whether we're going to contribute more, the government has to come back to Stortinget with it. Military contributions within Iraq’s borders following an invitation from the Iraqi authorities comply with international law. At the same time, it is important to stress that we have already contributed by extracting chemical weapons from Syria. If ISIL had access to these, we can only imagine what this conflict would have looked like today. The debate on Norwegian participation must be seen in the context of the responsibility we have for security in Afghanistan and in the North. For the Workers' Party, participation in UN operations will also be a high priority. This summer we saw how Gaza was bombed. We cannot accept that the world community is repeatedly asked to build Gaza without addressing the cause of the problem, that is. Israel's blockade and settlement. The Labour Party wants the government to discourage the purchase of goods produced on the occupied territory, for violations of international law must be treated in the same way whether they occur in Ukraine or Israel. Israel's reaction was out of proportion, and the Swedish government wants to recognise Palestine. This must also lead to a discussion of Norwegian policy. I look forward to the Norwegian government as head of the donor countries group contributing together with Sweden to move forward in this policy. There is broad agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. However, in terms of level of assistance — the level of assistance to Syria and the management of the situation in Gaza — there are differences between the Labour Party and the Government. Nor do I think the government's slogans that they will go from dialogue to action in the northern regions have so far led, neither in terms of dialogue nor in terms of action. That's why we have high expectations for the state budget in terms of the North Region Initiative. It's important for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3493	The voters spoke clearly at the elections last year. They wanted a new government. They received a powerful government, and the census shows that you have a targeted government with raised eyes. Last year, the voters saw that there is a focus on competitiveness in the Norwegian economy, which is the sure foundation for sustainable well-being. Norway is a good country to live in. As a Northman, we were born on the green branch, but the voters saw that eight years of red-green was enough. The selectors so that we developed a cost level that was not supported by productivity. The voters saw that there was a strong bias between the recent developments in mainland operations and the oil engine we became increasingly dependent on. The languages of the throne were very clarifying. The Productivity Commission and the recognition that the period during which oil can be the only driving force for Norwegian welfare are important. The urgent need for a broader focus is an important signal to the entire Norwegian community. One can easily get the impression that some speakers from the opposition have forgotten that the voters wanted a new policy. They wanted a policy of tax relief for work and ownership. There is no contradiction between stimulating Norwegian ownership and labour and well-being, rather on the contrary. We need to create more, not more taxes, and we need to expand the opportunities for everyone in order for well-being to be sustainable. The voters would have a policy with a focus on transport and infrastructure. High labour force mobility and wider work regions will provide better opportunities throughout the country. The Norwegian state is, and will in the foreseeable future, a major owner of Norwegian business, but we need diversity. We need the private initiative to ensure the innovation needed for a competitive business. Therefore, discrimination against the diverse, private, locally based Norwegian ownership, which develops jobs throughout Norway, needs to be eliminated. The representative Botten talked about nutrition neutrality. She should also talk about who the Workers' Party is going to discriminate. Ownership discriminated against Norwegian ownership and stimulated state and foreign ownership. We want to give Norwegian private ownership an opportunity to compete on equal terms. New ideas and better solutions are up and running. The voters would have a policy with a focus on knowledge, that everyone should be able to seize the opportunities, and a research policy that stimulates business to develop future products and processes, so that Norway remains one of the world’s best countries to live in. The government has shown strong influence on all of this. It showed the additional proposition last year. We granted approx. 0.5 B.C.E. kr extra for research, SEK 1.5 billion. kr extra for transportation and 1 billion. extra for tax relief to industry in relation to the Red-Green Party. We filled up nutrient-oriented research activities through the BIA and improved the TaxFUNN. The focus on simplification and less bureaucracy is strong. Such a simple grip as that the requirement for original supplements for travel and subsistence bills was lifted in the summer, saving business for approx. 1.2 B.C.E. kr. The leaks from the state budget that are coming are far fewer now, but the signals so far are clear. The track continues with a focus on competitiveness, growth-enhancing tax incentives, knowledge, research and transport. That's the medicine business needs. I think the government is right that we have seen the best of the oil as a one-sided driving force for Norwegian economy and well-being. It's urgent with a broader focus, but if there's something the oil age has shown us, it's that the Nordics and Norwegian business are able to seize the opportunity when it's there. We have adaptability and will. The key is to pursue a policy that stimulates competitiveness and growth. That's what this government is doing. It will open up the possibilities for everyone. The languages of the throne point in the right direction. There is reason to look forward to the future with a government that clearly sees the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3514	European security policy is entering a qualitative new phase. The safety environment in Norway has been permanently changed. For the first time since World War II, a European state with power has conquered a part of a neighbouring country. Russia has violated international law and the rules of security policy, resulting in instability and unforeseeability, through the international law-enforcement of Crimea and the aggression against Ukraine. NATO has responded to developments through several important decisions at the Wales Summit in September. Among other things, there is increased emphasis on collective defence, reaction capacity and tranquillity of NATO member countries in the east. In Iraq and Syria, we see a development in which the terrorist organisation ISIL has, in a short time, conquered large areas of land. Their brutal behavior is well documented and has frightened an entire world. In total, there is a basis for saying that today’s security policy image is marked by greater uncertainty and increased threat levels in Europe. The new security policy situation must also have implications for how we establish the defence. I therefore asked the head of defence on Wednesday last week to draw up a new professional-military advice. It will form the basis for the next long-term defence plan. We build a modern defense so that we can have security and security for our values in the future. The EU Member States are, alongside the United States, our main partners in foreign, security and defence policy. We share a common value base based on democracy, human rights and rule of law. In June, the government presented a strategy for cooperation with the EU and our partners in Europe. Close dialogue with the countries of the EU and the European institutions will help to safeguard our interests. The Nordic regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. In the north, we have central Norwegian interests to care for: marine, fishing and energy resources, environmental and people-to-people cooperation, stability and security. The government has launched a new chapter in the North Region Initiative with increased emphasis on knowledge-driven industrial development. The traditional markets of Norway are in the process of overcoming the economic crisis of the last few years. However, global growth, and not least global demand growth, comes primarily from new and emerging markets. It is against this backdrop that the government will implement a change of pace in promoting Norwegian business interests internationally, including: through more active use of the EEAS. The overall ambition of government development policy is to contribute to the eradication of extreme poverty. The government therefore maintains a high level of international assistance, where Norway is among the largest contributors. A stronger focus on assistance, long-term partnerships with co-operative countries and stronger performance requirements will provide a more effective development policy with better results. The government announced in June Announcement. St. 25 for 2013–2014, Education for Development, and has made education a major priority in development policy. Norway has a driving role in meeting the UN’s Millennium Goals. The government is actively involved in shaping the United Nations Development Agenda after 2015, where new universal goals are being developed under the name Sustainable Development Goals – or sustainability goals, as we call it in Norway. Several major, complex and long-term humanitarian crises require the international community to set up. Norway contributes significantly to humanitarian efforts both bilaterally and through multilateral organisations. During the fight against the Ebola epidemic, the defence is prepared to provide air transport support for the transport of personnel and equipment from Sierra Leone, and we are also now working intensively to establish a back-up solution for the medical evacuation of Norwegian personnel whenever necessary. In addition, at short notice, we can deal with sick beds and infective equipment donated from Norway. Climate change is the biggest global challenge of our time. The work on meeting this must be given the highest priority and a clearer place in Norway’s foreign and development policy. Norway shall be a driver of an ambitious international climate agreement with binding obligations for all countries. In times that now, with major foreign and security policy challenges, we see the importance of ringing international law and the multilateral system. Norway should be a solid and reliable partner and ally, who, in cooperation with others, builds security and stability in our own neighbourhoods and in the world around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3540	A few weeks ago, the government considered it important that Norway contribute humanitarianly and not militarily to resolving the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. Then the government came to the Storting and asked for support for five staff officers, which was supported by the Workers' Party. What is the government's view of further military participation? Can the Council of State explain whether it is right to make more military contributions here, or to contribute to increased bet in the northern regions, and also to maintain commitments in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3547	The government has not at any time excluded the possible use of military instruments, but we initially contributed humanitarianly, and we do so on a large scale. The fact that we now got Storting's consent also during the consultations to send five staff officers is among other things. in order to plan any military contribution. We have not yet concluded this, because there are a lot of planning processes going on among those countries that are now making up quite a broad coalition – there are over 50 countries that have said that they want to contribute militarily, humanitarianly and politically in the fight against ISIL. I don't want to say that there's any conflict between taking care of what we're going to do in the North, with our commitments in Afghanistan – as we're making out the year at first, according to the plan, and then we're going to have to assess whether we're going to continue after New Year – and assessing military contributions in Iraq as well. We have said that we are assessing capacity-building contributions, and we are limiting it to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3558	What can capacity-building measures be?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3563	I am glad that I got the opportunity to answer that as well. As the representative Huitfeldt is well known, this is what Norway has contributed in many contexts. We have been building capacity in Afghanistan for many years, especially under the umbrella of security sector reform, where we are learning security forces, where we are contributing to anti-corruption, and where we are also helping to gain democratic control of military forces. There are many aspects of capacity building that may be relevant. However, I repeat: the government has not yet concluded this, and that is one of the reasons why the staff officers are now involved in the planning process, in order to assess both what is needed and, where appropriate, what Norway can contribute. This is something we've done on different continents. We have done so in Afghanistan over time, we have been engaged in capacity building and security sector reform in Ukraine, and still do so, and we have also done so in many African countries, in close cooperation with our Nordic neighbours.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3574	Norway is a country where considerable resources are needed to defend the country. It's big in terms of size with Italy, but with one tenth of the population. We're going to defend a sea area that's almost the size of the Mediterranean. The central party wants a national defence that is present in the whole country with a focus on national interests. The main task must be primarily to defend Norwegian territory. In the work on the long-term plan, the Centre Party was given a go-ahead to maintain a home security force of 45,000 soldiers. He shall be organised through a decentralised territorial structure to ensure that we have defence capabilities throughout the country. Now the government has warned that a lot because of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine needs a change of defense. The Central Party will point out that Norway needs a strong defence capability across the country, regardless of the situation in Russia. Will the Minister of Defense ensure a necessary boost for the Homeland Protection in the years to come, so that they both get practice and get enough equipment to be what we need to defend ourselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3584	I thank you for this question because I have now given the defence manager the task of developing a new professional-military advice for the next long-term planning period. He received the assignment on Wednesday and will conclude in a year, and what the conclusions will be, we are waiting to see. But to the question of Homeland Protection: the first thing this government did in connection with the supplement we added to the budget that the previous government provided was to increase the funding for Homeland Protection by 7 million. kr for five selected forces in the effort forces to exercise and train more, i.e. from 20 to 30 days. It is of great importance to the operational capability. In the context of the revised national budget, we continued the escalation to the Home Protection Agency by 45 million. kr, e.g. to personal clothing and equipment to enhance the operational capability of the Home Protection System, which is an important component of the Norwegian defence system. Then the budget comes on Wednesday, then the representative Navarsette will have to lubricate with patience until then, and then we'll see what's going on there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3593	We have a troubled world situation with the Middle East, with Ukraine and, as mentioned earlier, we also have a long-term commitment in Afghanistan. My question is about the future in Afghanistan. Now there's a new president there, you have a security agreement with the United States, which is also going to be concluded with NATO. With the commitments Norway now has several places, can the Council of State comment on the need to have strategic patience in Afghanistan, and that Norway will contribute to precisely that patience so that we do not now retreat after so long and do so too early?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3598	It's quite right, as the representative Ola Elvestuen says, that it's a very troubled world, and it's troubled in a lot of different areas. It requires that we also have an overview of both our commitment, where we are present, what we are doing, and also the long-termity of it. It is very gratifying that, at last, both a President and a Prime Minister have come into place in Afghanistan, that there has been the signing of both the bilateral security agreement with the United States and also the status agreement with NATO. It forms the basis for the long-planned Resolute Support mission that is scheduled to take over on 1 January. Norway has not concluded any contribution to the Resolute Support mission except to say that if it is to be relevant for us to contribute, we will, after all, judge to concentrate on the efforts we are making today. We weren't long ago in three places in Afghanistan, now we're in one place, Kabul area, and that's in the area we're thinking of, a possible continued effort, but that's what we're coming back to the Stortinget with in the usual way when the government is ready to conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3607	The Minister of Defence stressed the importance of Norway having a solid basis for international law for our participation in international operations. Now Norway is part of a US-led operation and is to assist Iraq in the fight against ISIL. Then it came as a surprise to many that the United States, leading this operation, bombed into Syrian territory. The question then is, when Norway is part of this operation: what is the basis of international law, or possibly the issue of international law, which the Minister of Defence sees as part of an operation extending the scope of the operation beyond the explicit ground of international law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3619	As I mentioned in a previous answer, the Norwegian Government has very clearly said that for us a possible contribution is limited to Iraq. There is an invitation from the Iraqi authorities – a clear mandate under international law. Norway has done so in the same way as relatively many other countries. But there are some countries that have said that they can also participate in military action in Syria. The United States has sent a letter to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, saying that this can be done under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter on self-defense, so it interprets the self-defense of Iraq and into Syria and believes that it is a basis of international law. So far, none of the members of the Security Council have objected. There have also been no others who have intended that this should not be considered as a basis for international law. The Americans get to answer more carefully about how they evaluate it, but we have said that our possible contribution concentrates on Iraq, where it is undoubtedly a basis of international law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3624	I want to ask the Minister of Defence about the relationship with Russia and about the border we have in common. The left is now in a process in which we discuss with the Ministry of Justice the organisation of police in the north. I do not expect the Minister of Defence to have direct opinions on that, but it affects the responsibility of the Minister of Defence on how it is organised. It is important that we are able to assert our sovereignty and organise border controls in a good and safe way. My question is: what values are the Council of State supposed to use to enforce the borders in a good and safe way – and match what is being stacked on the other side of the border? This concerns the border crossing that we have in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3631	I can answer for what we're doing on the defence side. One is that I have just been and opened one new border station in Finnmark. For the summer, it opens one more. It's a pretty important contribution. The second – and I think it is important to emphasise this – is: although Norway, like most other countries, has suspended bilateral military cooperation with Russia, we have stressed the need to continue cooperation on border control, coastguard, search and rescue and marine events – for the security of people. We've also done it for the purpose of avoiding any misunderstandings, precisely because it's increased military activity. We've seen it over time. We have therefore concentrated on keeping the channels open – the contact between the Defence Operational Headquarters and the Head of the North Fleet – simply because it helps to avoid possible misunderstandings. We believe that this is important, as a confidence-building measure. It's been a long time. We want to continue it, even though bilateral military cooperation is otherwise suspended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3640	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3645	The debate on the throne must be about our visions for our country and how we are going to build the country further. The greatest and most acute threat to our ability to build the country, to the productivity of the industry that the representative Gundersen spoke about, to the recruitment of the professions, which has been commonplace today, to Norwegian jobs and to Norwegian pay and working conditions – yes, indeed the entire Norwegian labour model and therefore the entire Norwegian welfare model – is the problem of labour crime and social dumping. It is therefore alarming that this was not given attention in the census, nor the attention of any of the speakers from the government parties here today. The Minister of Labour has left the Chamber without saying anything about this threat. The Prime Minister will come tomorrow, and I hope she will use the opportunity to explain what the government has planned to do to deal with this problem. It's time -- we need action. Despite the fact that the red-green government put forward three plans of more than 40 measures that have worked, we see that the obscurity is only spreading. We are facing a demanding period of increasing unemployment. Social dumping and crime at work are going to improve growth conditions with it. So far, we have seen a lot of good rhetoric from the Minister of Labour and the government saying to smoke out the criminal elements of Norwegian working life. The rhetoric is unfortunately followed by very little action. The crisis meeting to be held in December was held in June. Measures have only proposed stricter penalties and more controls. It just doesn't last. Labour crime must be combated as all other crimes with prevention and punishment. It has been along the two main tracks the Workers' Party has been fighting the storm for the last eight years, while the government is moving barely enough along the one. In addition, petrol is poured on the fire by reverse measures against social dumping, which we introduced, as collective redress. Fuel is poured onto the fire by facilitating more use of temporary employment and more hiring of labour. It is gasoline on fire because it supports the unorganized working life. It facilitates more use and waste of labour, unbridled conditions at work, and it helps to make it easier — not more difficult — to defile. This is at all the opposite of what Norwegian work and society now needs. It does not build Norway – on the contrary. It testifies to a government that looks blindly at its own old solutions and ideas and blue ideology rather than facts, research and the real challenges of working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3656	The Government Platform states that the government should provide the patient’s healthcare services, where the patient’s needs are centered, with increased emphasis on quality and patient safety. In the Roman Empire, His Majesty the King showed that the government will focus on a society of security for the individual, that those who fall outside will have a new chance, and that people who are sick or need care will receive the necessary health care in time and have clear rights. The government is already delivering well. Several sick people are treated, several sick homes are built and persons with severe disabilities are entitled to a personal assistant. We have reintroduced the rule that health regions should give priority to care and mental health, and we have reintroduced the commitment to mental health in school – both of which the red-green government had removed. Too many people wait unnecessarily long in a health queue and go ill rather than work. The government meets this challenge by purchasing free capacity from private individuals to bring down queues in mental health and drug care. The reform of the free choice of treatment has met with resistance – not only here in the Chamber today, but also in the trade unions – and it is not so unexpected, all the time when the reform challenges existing systems. Nor is it news that the Workers' Party has opposed each time the Right has extended and strengthened patients' rights. Free hospital choice and medically-defined deadlines may be cited as an example. Then they come sneaking after, as they do now, when they claim that they are to cancel the activity of the public hospitals and extend the use of private services through tenders. Those who have suffered most for eight years with red-green policies are unfortunately ruspacents and mentally ill patients. Very many are struggling with various forms of chronic fatigue disorders, so-called medically inexplicable plagues where it is difficult to diagnose any kind of disease. Examples of these include ME patients, patients with fibromyalgia, Lyme disease and other indefinable musculoskeletal disorders. According to the Dagbladet, these represent the largest patient group in the country, with 130 000 long-term sick or disabled at the beginning of 2012. That there is now more research into this kind of suffering, and that the government will grant 20 million. In order for these patients to be met with a more interdisciplinary treatment offer in the future, they are very positive and show that the government delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3678	A warm and dignified care for the elderly has always been important for the Advance Party, both within and outside government. The ageing population is increasing, and the ageing wave is the result of the welfare society’s achievement of the goal of increasing life expectancy. Unfortunately, not everyone is fresh. Today it is approx. 70000 people with some dementia, and more than 250,000 people are related to someone with dementia. The number of dementia is increasing dramatically, and estimates show that the disease will cost us 18 billion. kr in the year in a few years. There is insufficient knowledge of dementia in society, among employees, users and relatives. This often leads many who develop dementia to arrive too late in contact with healthcare for information and help. If you get help early, you can slow down the development of dementia through lifestyle changes and drugs and longer live as normal a life as possible. Much of the important prevention work is done in municipalities. But they also need funds to provide users and patients with good care. The government will build and modernize homes adapted to people with dementia, and we're already well started. The government's commitment involves a doubling of the grant, giving a large space for action for municipalities to both renew and modernise existing sites and to build new nursing homes and nursing homes. The Progress Party shows action and creates freedom and security for people with dementia. Technology gives us great opportunities to make everyday life safer and more predictable for people affected by this disease. Well-being technology is running faster into the future than many of the country's municipalities are able to hang out with it. Several municipalities have to apply such technology. The drama is one of the municipalities that have come a long way in this area. Motion sensors for rapid assistance in the case of falls, the use of cameras, GPS, social alarms and reminders to take medications — in the housing of people with dementia — considerably enhance the safety of everyday life, both for sick and for relatives. This is the future. It must be a goal for us that several municipalities learn from the municipalities that use welfare technology in the care services. We need to ensure that welfare systems meet tomorrow's needs, not yesterday's. There is also a question of freedom, security and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3697	It is positive and very gratifying when the government of the throne sends clear signals that action to meet the climate challenge is an overall goal in the coming years. At the same time, the government is signaling clear ambitions to increase the rate of road construction. Taking into account that road transport today accounts for approx. 20 pst of the CO2 emissions, this may appear to be an insoluble paradox. I want to use the rest of this post to raise an exciting vision that shows that such seemingly conflicting objectives can be combined in a good way. New and innovative solutions can bring us a long step closer to the zero-emissions society, while at the same time ensuring greater and more efficient road transport. In the context of the treatment of the national transport plan 2014-2023, an overall increase was behind the ambition to build a free E39 within 20 years. The state road system is now in the process of developing various technical solutions that are needed to achieve the objective of a free E39. As part of the project work, the State Road Service has explored the possibilities for extracting energy from current, waves, sun and wind in the major fjord crossing projects under planning. The idea is then to develop new and innovative structures where bridges are simultaneously power plants that extract renewable energy. The conclusion of the State Road Service is that it is possible to extract enough energy to operate all electrical installations along the E39. In addition, a power surplus large enough to supply electricity to a large part of the vehicles on the route will be generated, provided that the percentage of electric cars continues to increase. So it's a long way to make the future E39 emission-free. The visions of the State Road Service should not be remembered for the future as airlocks that were never realized because of lack of political power. The idea of a zero-emission E39 allows us one of the contours of a zero-emission society where road transport is part of the solution. Developing new innovative technologies combined with frontier-breaking engineering can give businesses and knowledge environments along the West new legs to stand on as the oil and gas age approaches the end. New concepts developed for an emission-free E39 can become a global sales product. But it's urgent to get this political anchor. The time is approaching for projects to submit tenders. It is then important that the relevant professional communities are connected in networks and coordinate efforts to develop integrated solutions that can both reduce travel time and produce green energy. The government must take the necessary steps to ensure economic space for action and good planning processes, so that the vision of a free E39 will also be the vision of an E39 free of emissions within 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3721	Two days before the government submits the government budget, there is a great deal of tension in their first independent budget. The centre party is busy having a budget that provides smoothing both nationally and globally. We see that the government's policy increases the inequality between different groups in Norway. It's enough to mention changes in the county income system, centralisation of important services and tax reliefs to the richest of us. Taking from those who live scattered and giving good to the most wealthy, preferably bustling in the city, seemed to be the motto of the government. Nevertheless, there is an equal amount of tension in how the budget will affect Norway's role when it comes to evening out the big differences we see between rich and poor globally. The central party of Norway must also contribute to an exceptionally large aid budget. There are now so many humanitarian crises in the world at the same time that this is necessary. Iraq, Syria, West Africa, Gaza and Ukraine are all examples in areas where the civil lira under disease, naud and acts of violence. In some of the conflicts, we have seen a level of brutality that has been frightening and that has sent thousands of people on the run. Through an extraordinary aid budget, we will be able to provide urgent assistance to more people who do not have enough food, medicine or health care. Norway has a proud tradition as a great supporter. By helping the countries that have taken thousands of refugees, we can better live with very many, while sending an important signal to the rest of the world community about how important it is now that anyone who can help those who need it most does so. The red-green government placed more emphasis on sustainable agriculture and food security in Norwegian aid. We believe that the dramatic situation in terms of emissions, poverty, agriculture and climate change requires much stronger efforts in these areas than the current government has proposed. We hope that the government in the 2015 state budget proposal will propose a great deal of support for sustainable agriculture in developing countries. Contributing to providing more people with safe access to food must be a priority. There are no other industries that can compare with agriculture when it comes to creating employment and economic repercussions for the very poorest in the world. Norway has a high level of competence in agriculture. In general, more of Norway’s development policies should benefit from the areas where Norway can contribute with specific competences. In addition to agriculture, Norway has much to add within areas such as marine resource management, hydropower and petroleum resources and before gender equality. The centre party welcomes the strengthening of educational assistance, but the young learn best when they have a safe home situation and food in their stomachs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3736	Earlier in the debate we could hear the Right Parliamentary Leader Mass about the importance of meeting everyday challenges and how the look at the big political visions could easily lead to a lack of contact with the people, as he said. Most of all, it seemed the post as a slightly wound reaction to the criticism the government has received for its priorities. But when what makes the representatives of the government parties cheer the most on TV, on radio and on social media, things are like sigway, chocolate milk, more tax-free and now professional boxing, I have to ask myself if that was what Trond Helleland meant with everyday challenges. Because it cannot have been the household economy of people most of the representative of Greece aimed at. The so-called tax cuts that most people get from the government are so insignificant that they don't even weigh up the increased child care prices, for example. which is now to be further increased. I suspect that the representative of Greece's popular harange about everyday challenges is most of all an attempt to avoid being held responsible for the elections that the Right has taken in the last year of government. When more in industry are abandoned, yes, more than 5,000 only in the oil sector, due to changes in the permitting legislation, among other things, when more asylum-children are thrown out of the country, when war-damaged Syrian refugees are not allowed to come to Norway – yes, then real people are faced with far more precarious everyday challenges than the trivialities of the Progress Party usually as frenetic celebrations as great victories. You can like Gjermund Hagesets, for example. Be as happy as you like, and pose in Bergensavis with two extra wine bottles, but it's small anyway. They warn the cuts in the children's supplement for the performers, as Right wants, is another good example. We've all heard the rule: it's theoretically possible to get more into disability and child supplementation than if you had worked. Hardly any political point has been repeated more by the Right in the last year. Let's say you make 330,000 dollars before you finish. So you're going to have four kids to end up with more money than you had when you worked. Of the more than 36 000 disability pensioners with children in 2008, 800 received supplements for four or more children. What you're doing now is cutting everyone's benefits because you can theoretically have so many children that you get more in disability than you get in pay when you were at work. One must have grown up inside the calculator to the Right to think that this is necessary and good policy. Now, the Right and Advance Party punishes thousands of people who already have poor advice because of a petimeter point that affects extremely few people, but who by the Right have been blown up to become a major social problem. It's bad politics, and it confirms the image of the Right: if you're rich, the best government can do for you, give you tax cuts, but if you've worn out your body in work, we'll take away your money. Because that's not how far the trust in the individual is going to go. So important were not the everyday challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3749	Today is a great day for Norwegian research. Everyone celebrates this evening the brain scientists and the married couple Moser at NTNU, because it became known today that they have received Alfred Nobel's prize in medicine. This has not happened before. It is great, and all honours must go to May-Britt and Edvard Moser, as well as the American-British scientist John O'Keefe, with whom they share the prize. For those who follow the Norwegian research debate, it might come as a surprise that some Norwegian researchers get the very prestigious Nobel Prize in Medicine. For those who have followed the construction of this research environment at NTNU, it is less surprising. In addition to the incredible efforts that these two have made in building up the environment, there are some clear research policies that have made this possible. The important thing is that more money has gone to the best. Edvard Moser was the first to lead one of several centers for excellent research. These centres are one of our foremost means of promoting quality, and in a long-term perspective of ten years. Research shall be of a high international level and have research training and internationalisation as a sub-target. We have to bet on selected environments and disciplines in the long term. We have to bet where we have the prerequisites to get the best. Research at this level is teamwork and not possible without internationalisation. When the previous church, education and research committee visited the laboratories for Moser, we met many researchers from around the world. They had come to Trondheim because they wanted to work on this unique project. In addition, foreign researchers were very pleased with the family policy in Norway, with good kindergartens at a low price, long maternity leave and cardboard. NTNU has been an excellent host for these researchers. The university has used its own free resources in research environments that they believe have a great potential. The brain research of Moser was an obvious candidate to support, and without NTNU in the back, Moser's husband and wife could have gone abroad quickly. At this level, competent researchers can choose and choose among top universities. The Moser couple are brilliant. They're very creative, they have the necessary stamina and are very concerned about research management. They're good scientists. The award of the prize may prove to be important for Norwegian research. It will give researchers pride, and it will legitimize an elite research – which is needed as much as we need a broad research. In addition, this highlights the story of some amazing scientists, who many Nordics may not have thought we had here in the country. The policy that has given us such a high-end research prize, we need to do more of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3770	It is as usual an honor to be present and debate here in this Chamber, yes from this pulpit. The debate of the throne is the dot over the i, and especially this year. It has been an exciting year, and with the Progress Party in the government, I have been able to help change the political course, and that is for the best for all who live in our beautiful country. In the last four years, I have talked a lot about transportation – what should be done, for example. in my county, but for which we did not get a pass at that time. That's why I'm happy to stand here today and know that the changes are going on, and that we've started building the country that we all want. It's bad to hate something, but toll stations I think most in Norway hate. Yes, although it didn't really apply in the 2013 elections, I dare still claim it. For me as a FrP, it has therefore been absolutely amazing personally to be in and tear down a toll station, namely the bomb in Setesdal. Even with only 16 pst. opening up to the Progress Party it disappears, and/or we reduce the cost of the bombs for the inhabitants. The bomb on the left. 9 was small in the field, but it meant a great deal to them that lived there, that they might finally get rid of this tree. Tolls from rv. 9 went mostly to the administrative costs, yes, more than to the road, and I'm proud that we've begun to put down such unprofitable bombs around the country. It is basically a shame that they were set up at all. The municipalities of Aust-Agder where rv. 9 goes through, has done a good job even to get the road repaired and get a yellow middle stripe throughout the valley. They've shown an incredible willingness to be on a splintered team with the state. Yes, I have not heard of other municipalities that have done anything similar. Across all political party lines, they have been united for Rv. 9th@item: inlistbox It deserves national attention. That is why I am taking this up from this pulpit today. Their commitment makes it easier to continue working for an important road through several counties, which is the main road from South Africa across the mountains to the West. Now there's just a couple of little pieces left, and we're at the goal. I'm going to stay a little further on the Southland, because we've started an investigation into the merger of the Southland Railway and the Westfold Railway – the Southwest Railway, as we popularly call it – which we thought was already going on when we took over the rudder. The increase in the number of trains going to and from Stavanger and Oslo via Sørlanden has also been welcomed. Not to mention that the State Council of Ketil Solvik-Olsen in spring was in Arendal with money, so that there was no stopping the plans for the route E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand. Now we are all waiting for the South to be excited about our own budget and whether the E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand is in there too, so that the trail can be set in the ground and the route completed in 2018. We might have earned that after waiting 50 years. I do not have any posts in the persuasion debate without also mentioning Arendal Airport Gullknob, which in the count's time now in June was given a concession. The work at Fromand is in full swing, and we are looking forward to the opening in 2015. These are issues that have been worked hard on, but before it became a reality with a Right Party government, that was not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3787	There wasn't much about equality in the throne number. It is clearly not an important theme for today's government. However, it says that the government should develop the vocational training so that more people complete. If we are to develop vocational training, we also need to see that it is here that we have the most gender-based – gender-based – labour market. That's 98 pst. men in construction and about 90 pst. girls who become health professionals. ‘It’s good with good pikes, but poor gender balance is not good for the learning environment.’ The director of the University of Oslo said in connection with the high female proportion of the cottage’s admission to right education. It may be high time that we also raise the issue of gender balance in the professional field – in order to promote recruitment to the subject, to increase equality and to reduce non-response. To the extent that we discuss this before the profession, it is the individual choice of the girls and boys that is mentioned. But the responsibility for better gender balance may not be left to the 15-year-olds alone. In order for more people to choose their professional and gender backgrounds, we need to address several areas. We must have better advice already on the youth ball. If we have good advice where the consultants can also do some professional work, we can give our youth twice as many opportunities. If a professional is to be chosen, it must also be known that it confers competence, that it provides skills. The Y-way is one thing – I thought that a letter should give study competence. If you are in a professional profession, you can convert your choice to a vocational one based on study specialisation, but this option is quite limited in the other way. I mean, when you're 15, you can't be asked to choose for the rest of your life. There is a need to provide options for reselection. I think professional support can be a good alternative. The red-green government put in Meld. St. 20 for 2013–2014 well facilitates this by experimenting with exchange models. So to the community -- I'm forced to say something about them. I'm so happy for someone who's an apprentice in the industrial mechanics trade. He writes in an article in the morning paper: ‘Even if we’re going to turn a car and babysit small children in kindergarten, we also need to develop intellectually. And the school must enable us to become active in society, make it possible for us to participate in the social debate, etc." This is an important signal that we have to take seriously. Professional law is good, but we have to make sure that in the fight against non-response we do not reduce the level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3809	A year ago, the signal from the voters was crystal clear. They wanted a new political course for the country. In a short time, the new government has marked both the will and the ability to pursue a policy with a generation-wide perspective, with increased confidence in the population and a strengthening of the social security network for those who fall through in society. Today, the government solves important tasks and equips Norway for the future. Many important reforms are in progress, and we are delivering what we promised. One of the government's main efforts is to renew and improve police and preparedness, so that in the future we will have security and security for our values. The Djørv Commission and the police analysis tell us in large letters that Norwegian police have to change. That's the government's responsibility. The forthcoming police reform is likely to be the main issue of justice policy during this period. This concerns the security of citizens, the fight against today's and tomorrow's crime and the need to build legal certainty on a democratic law and the capacity of society to enforce it. There is therefore reason to wonder that the police reform, even before it is formulated, is characterised as a centralisation reform of the Central Party, and that the Labour Party is now saying that they are inviting a broad political debate on the reform. Well, the only invitation I've seen to this comes from the Minister of Justice, and it said the Workers' Party no. Having said that, I nevertheless hope that we can achieve maximum agreement on the broad lines of the police reform. At least the right will contribute to this. A reform with solid support in the Grand Duchy will give the police the peace and stability they need – and I would say deserve – to implement the reform. We have a good police force in Norway, but it is a political responsibility that the police are able to meet the new challenges and tasks in the future. It is therefore gratifying that the languages of the throne are so prominent that the security of society is so important to the priorities of the government in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3822	What characterizes a democracy? We've spent the whole of 2014 debating that. Through the marking of the anniversary of the Constitution, we have been given ample opportunity to develop the importance of free elections, power distribution and human rights. I think it's time for the Storting to take responsibility for lifting the second pillar of our democracy, that's journalism. Media experience — international and Norway — dramatic changes. The traditional paper newspapers are experiencing their worst crisis ever. Norwegian Journalists reports that they have lost over 700 members since 2008. So far in 2014, 352 journalists have been laid off because of downsizing, as well as hundreds of journalists only in Scandinavia. In this picture, it is mildly alarming that the census does not contain a single word about media policy. It's not like there's no challenge. Key questions are: How are we going to secure Norwegian newspapers in the digital transformation? How are we going to contribute to continued media pluralism in an age of increasing ownership concentration? How are we to ensure a strong public broadcaster that contributes to media pluralism? How are we going to strengthen Norwegian players in a very tough international competition? How should we contribute to the paying of taxes and contributing to Norwegian diversity by international actors such as Google and Facebook – which are now taking on increasing market shares? How should we stimulate the strengthening of Norwegian language and culture in a world that is becoming increasingly changeable? How are we to ensure freedom of expression in a world that is becoming ever smaller? These should be issues that were higher on the government's agenda. Unfortunately, we experience a passive government, which is most concerned with marking the distance – arm length distance. In the media field, almost all government proposals have gone in the opposite direction to what media actors want. The Government has proposed to cut the production subsidy to Norwegian newspapers and cut the NRK licence. Now they are planning to introduce VAT on the free word. The consequences of such a policy may continue to be redundancies of journalists and less media pluralism, which may represent a challenge for democracy. Fortunately, it seems that there is a majority on Stortinget that wants to go in a different direction. Our historic task is to ensure that the country's citizens have their fundamental rights respected. Then the protection of the free word is absolutely central.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3835	The Christian People's Party and the Stortinget want better organisation of government levels in Norway. Community reform must therefore be far more than a move of municipal borders. There is a need for democratic reform, based on current challenges in the municipal sector and on public administration and service production. The Christian People's Party will maintain a living local democracy while we renew, simplify and improve. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have programmed the closure of the county as a administrative body. It's strange to me, as I think we need a popular level between primary municipalities and the state, a coordinated counterweight and counterweight against the accumulation of state remote control and bureaucracy. I hear a certain alarm from the municipalities in the reform process, where the following questions are raised: What about the tasks of the county council? I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left have received the government's support to continue a popular political middle level with either fewer county municipalities or new regions. In any case, county boundaries shall not prevent reform processes and changes. The Christian People's Party looks forward to receiving the final report from the Expert Committee on Tasks in the Primary Municipalities in December, but equally important and exciting is the report on county municipalities and regions, which will also be available in the autumn. When work is now to be intensified and all municipalities are to participate, the task lists and the division of tasks between these levels of administration are becoming crucial. The Christian People's Party believes that government and accumulation must decide a division of tasks between county municipalities and municipalities at the same time in order to make the best sense. This will provide the necessary clarification of the responsibilities and motivation of the reform process. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, the intermediate level must be allocated to tasks currently held by the State, the Directorates and the Departments. Here are a number of political issues, both discretion and decision-making, which should also be in a popular political governance model. Then this becomes a real political power reform and not just border adjustments. Indeed, it is important that today’s county councils are given new and different tasks than in today’s situation, and not become a kind of ‘supercommunal’ without assigning new tasks from outside. The Christian People's Party believes, and will contribute to, that the municipal reform will lead to offensive urban, urban and district policies that enable it to live and work and run competitive business and have equivalent services throughout the country. This is the objective of the reform. Then we have to make sure to have both a tempo and a content that supports the purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3854	I would like to begin by joining quite wholeheartedly in the previous speaker's descriptions of the county council, which is otherwise a great and significant weigher in this country. The Workers' Party will have good communications and transport opportunities across the country. Increased accessibility, improved safety and environmental considerations underpin the Workers' Party's transport policy and our priorities in the National Transport Plan, as proposed by the Stoltenberg Government, and on which the Solberg Government is now to be measured. Since 2005, the transport budget has increased by 90 pst. We have to build the country. The Workers' Party is proud that we are now implementing the high-recorded road, rail and port development of the time, to which the National Transport Plan provides. This increase must continue in the coming years. But after hearing Solvik-Olsen's speech to Vegforum Trøndelag last week, and not least in today's debate, I'm a bit stunned. The Council of State stated that he did not want to be measured on appropriations compared to his predecessors, but on the reform work. Now, when we have planned for the journey of time, are we going to get a desertless ideological approach to the organisation of public tasks, or are we going to get speed on the allocations and the free path where today there is a tendency to plug into the system? The large rate of expansion on the road in the coming years will require large planning resources of municipalities and state agencies, good contract forms and flexible organisation to ensure good progress in projects. From the previous government there are a number of proposals on the table that will shorten the planning time. The working party wants to build the most possible way for the money. The Workers' Party supports the use of tolls, not because we want to plague people, but because there is a gap between those who use the road and the authorities, which allows us to build more roads faster. This position now stands at the very heart of a great deal. Then we need a toll policy that develops this funding mechanism, not a policy that should misjudge it, or a political leadership that rhetorically distances itself from the policy it is pursuing. The government opens up the possibility of extending the amortisation period for toll projects. This happens on the E18 through Westfold. Tolls are reduced, but the back of the medal is that the recovery period is extended from 15 to 20 years. Increased interest expense gives an extra bill from which the government cannot pay. So instead of renewing, simplifying and improving, you can get to animals, prolonging and delaying.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3870	The major project of the Workers' Party is to build the country. Then we need an offensive and forward-looking housing policy. The homes we build today are going to stand for generations. Therefore, today's housing policy must equip us for what we know will come in the future. And what do we know about the future? Yeah, we'll be more people, and especially in the cities. Our answer is that we need to build more to meet population growth. It requires more politics and not just the market, as is the right one to believe. Three simple grips, which will work quickly, are strengthening the House Bank, not cutting, as the right-hand side does, building more student homes, and then we need a pace shift for housing in and around the big cities. Therefore, the Workers' Party has proposed that the State should take a greater part of the infrastructure bill if adequate housing is built along the collective connecting points. It's forward-looking, and it's climate friendly. If we are to achieve the goal of a zero-emission society, there must also be a green shift in the construction sector. By building houses that produce more energy than you use, our buildings can go from being part of the climate problem to becoming part of the solution. A brilliant example is the plus house on Rundbo, which is behind the Powerhouse alliance. It is important and good that private actors are spearheads, but it is time that the state also becomes a locomotive in the green shift. State buildings have already created a virtual plus house. Now we believe that the time has come for the state to also contribute to building the first public plus house. In this way, we can contribute to technology development and a green shift. So we know that we're getting older, and more people want to stay at home longer. By 2040, older people will live in a quarter of the homes in the country. It's today we're building the homes to house the wave of old age. Then we have to build so that people can live at home longer. Therefore, there is a poor investment in the future when the government wants to weaken the requirements for access to housing. The debate on snorkeling and accessibility requirements is not a technical debate on centimeters. It's a value debate. It's all about which communities we want. The Labour Party will build a society where all people have the freedom to choose where to live, the freedom to have a social life where to visit friends and family, and the freedom to live independent lives. It is these freedoms that the Right Party and the Progressive Party are attacking when they go to fight against the accessibility requirements. Our ambition is to build the country. We're going to do that together, and we're going to create an inclusive society where everyone gets the opportunity to contribute. That's how we do our best to meet the challenges of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3887	One by one, they come up to the pulpit and proclaim that everything that goes well in this country is a result of the new government's power of action. I am sure that if we other human beings here in the hall had just shut up and let the blue-blue self-satisfaction be allowed to occur freely and without restraint, they would also have taken the credit for the beautiful summer we've had, for so fine summers it wasn't under the red-green! This self-satisfaction is a symbol of what is Norway's real enemy. Excessive faith in proper abilities led to hybridism in ancient Greece. It was the punishment of the gods for those who lost contact with reality and lost themselves and said that they have excellence. Yes, we are a country with great wealth, good welfare, distribution and equality – built on a social model that all Americans would call socialist. But no, that doesn't mean that everything at stake is who has the era of history, and who has made sure of the good summer weather. Contact with reality must mean seeing the serious challenges Norway and the world face, and humbly working together to solve them. Because we have great resources, we also have opportunities to bet and to really risk something for our future. What if it was the starting point for business policy? Then we could have met the welfare challenge, with one in three older and potentially nurturing in the future, by revolutionising both the use of technology and the way to organise health and care – not with small projects here and there, not with pilot projects in telemedicine or e-health, but through a national effort that both creates better and more humane well-being and at the same time raises an ICT industry that we know will need in the future. Within education, a more offensive effort could create a more adaptable learning and help students to learn better. Within the industrial field, where there is an enormous international trend in the digitisation of industrial processes, Norway has been on the outside. Within the marine field, it's really possible for Norway to be world-leading when it comes to viable solutions, but there's one way to sell out of breeding and increase emissions. I hope we can move out of this backward and self-absorbed year, look forward, lift our eyes and maybe dare to really bet something like land.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3898	I want to start by saying that I really look forward to Wednesday. Then the blue-blue government – if we are to believe the parliamentary leaders of the Right and the Advance Party who have stood here today, and we are to do so – will come up with a budget that meets our expectations. Then it becomes almost like a former prime minister must have said: now everything is going so much better. We'll see about Wednesday. At least I think I've heard this several times today. At least the municipalities are not preparing for it. They are preparing for a major cut in their welfare offer in the light of what the government has said so far, what lies in the municipal proposition, and what lies behind new challenges in the policy pursued in 2014. I am thinking in particular of what has not happened in terms of the discovery of the tax failure that you do not want to cover up, as KS now says is as much as 2.5 billion. kr, which the municipalities have to take. In addition, we know that there is a great deal of underfinancing in kindergartens. But with what has been said here today, the municipalities can look forward to getting rid of the big cuts – can they? This will not least thank and look forward to my home country. They'll be very satisfied. It is one of the states that has come out dramatically badly with government policy so far. The new distribution key hits Nordland – and we have also heard Sogn and Fjordane and several other states – extra hard. We also remember very well the cuts in regional development funds, at 0.5 billion. kr, which went out across the North by 66 million. kr. But today we've heard from the Right that regional development funds, it won't have county municipalities. Of course it's not like that. In addition, Nord-Norge was not compensated for the employer’s fee, at least not the county municipalities – so far. I am pleased that this government has realised that the tax cuts have led to welfare protection, whether we should believe in them, and that they are correcting this when the budget is presented on Wednesday. We're going to be the society of opportunity. Our task as elected representatives is to understand the big questions of our time, to know what they require of us, to be willing to both draw on important experiences and to think new. The Labour Party will support a policy where we choose to meet the challenges as a community. We are clear on this: we must build the country and we must build the country together. We're going to build a new one – we've heard that today – we're going to rebuild, and we're going to build on it. And we're going to make use of the whole country. We want a country where the city and the country are connected, not a country that is deflecting successful means of using the whole country, as we have so far seen from today's government. Finally, a little bit about transportation: we'll have to wait and see if it'll be renewed, simplified and improved, or if it'll be expensive, delayed and extended.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3917	There has been a broad cross-political agreement to bet on art and culture for the whole country. Building cultural houses, supporting organisers and festivals has been important in achieving this cultural policy goal – in all fields of art. The government has stated that it will now focus on content, which is also a broad cultural policy consensus. But then we need organizers who have the economy to be able to present content. The government has said it should bet on talents. That's good. But you can never build anything from above and down. We have to start with the base wall. All talent development also starts from below and in width. That's why we're going to have to continue to bet on practice rooms and other arrangements so that talents can unfold. The musical equipment system can be made available to all genres, including choirs and corps – it would be to make new uplifts to the breadth culture. The government has said that it will give culture freedom. To date, this freedom has largely been a prioritizing of its own cuts. This has particularly affected the open field, a field in which the government statement states that the government itself wants to give priority. This lacks entirely cultural policy credibility. The Culture Council, which is responsible for the free cultural field, was cut in 2013. The government does not take responsibility for these cuts, but makes the Council of Culture a scapegoat. It's transparent. I want to share a heart attack. The purchasing system for books is changing, but we had never imagined that it would affect children and young people. Nor was it the intention of the librarians when they called for a revision. This will particularly affect the school libraries, which are already struggling with poor staffing and poor gatherings, with some decent exceptions. Some people say that we're not a cultural nation, but a ham nation. Well, building a cultural nation requires at least laborious work over a long period of time. The work party was well started to lay stone on the stone and build from the bottom of. We even got criticism at times to do too much, build too many houses. In today's Stavanger Evening Leaf, Trude Marit Risnes, director of Stavanger Symphony Orchestra, goes out and is worried. When the red-green government went off, we lost the plan for cultural life, the cultural promise. I will end by saying that the sitting government is picking stones away from the cultural base wall, and that's what the future will have to pay for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3936	In the hall here today and through the media on weekends, there are budget leaks about extra funds for county roads by increasing the loan frame to the so-called interest compensation scheme for transport operations in the county. It is also pointed out that the red-green government wanted to liquidate the interest compensation scheme. It could be in place with some facts about this arrangement. In 2010, the county took over responsibility for most non-tribal roads. The aim of the administrative reform was to enable municipalities to give priority to rural roads. The framework of the county councils was therefore increased by 1 billion. kr in addition to the transfer from the Ministry of Transport’s budget. In the NTP for the period 2014-2023, the Stoltenberg II government set a total of 17,5 billion. kr for an exceptional effort on the county road network. It was also seen by a pot of ten billion. kr for the renewal and upgrading of the road network in the form of increases in the county framework, and this was therefore a new initiative. In addition, there was a pot of 7.5 billion. kr for the racial protection of county roads. That was an increase of 50 pst. relative to the previous NTP. With the establishment of a pot for renewal of the county road network of 10 billion. kr, the interest compensation scheme proposed was liquidated from 2014. The new Solberg Government proposed, through its additional proposal for 2014, to pass on this interest compensation scheme with an annual loan framework of 2 billion. kr. The Workers' Party and the Centre shall support this in their alternative budget for 2014. Through various budgetary leaks, it appears that the Solberg Government will now continue the interest compensation scheme with an annual framework of 3 billion. kr. And as I understand it, the county councils are going to borrow these three billions, and the funds seem to have already been allocated according to their own distribution key. At the top of this, I wonder: Will the county councils be able to raise additional loans to maintain the county roads? Isn't that also healthy money they need? And is it wise to raise loans for road maintenance? In the annex to the NTP, the frame of the county councils should increase by 10 billion. kr during the period. Will these fresh funds continue to be made available to county councils? If this silver leakage is characteristic of the draft budget we are to be presented on Wednesday, there is certainly not a budget where we are waiting for it to overflow with good things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3958	In the Common Era, the government is presenting a new investment on the road, rail and collective, and in particular urban areas are the ones to mark the results of collective action. These are important priorities that will increase accessibility and increase road safety – we hope – and help us to approach more of our climate policy objectives. We in the Christian People's Party are pleased with these clear signals and look forward to the policy being realised. However, there is cause for concern when, in 2013, a relatively strong, marked increase in the number of fatalities in traffic, a trend that — so far — continues into 2014. This is a development that we cannot settle down with. It is therefore absolutely necessary, in addition to building safer roads, to focus on all kinds of measures that can help us reverse this trend, given our vision of zero fatalities and severe injuries. Here, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will challenge the government to bring together a national action plan based on knowledge and documented experience, which can give our country a new direction in terms of the number of deaths and injuries. Every life that is lost is a human tragedy that affects many, as well as that it costs society a lot of money. In the South, we've had major promotion challenges in the last few years on the E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger. With forecasts for doubling heavy traffic up to 2040, and an accident route with the highest number of fatalities and heavy injuries among the main roads in Norway, it is absolutely necessary to maintain the maximum focus on planning and extending to four-field roads on this route. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Transport has given the Vegvesenet clear signal to plan the entire route as four fields. For the South, it is also important that we focus on optimal progress on the E18 Arendal–Tvedestrand and Rv. 9th@item: inlistbox Ferry-free E39 from Kristiansand to Trondheim will not only be able to connect city centres and districts in a new way, but will also be a zero-emission E39. The vision of producing the energy consumption of this main road section needs from different power installations along the corridor could be of great importance beyond the borders of Norway. However, the implementation of a project with such a vision will require the allocation of funds for research and development at a scale of approximately 3 pst. of the total cost of an estimated 150 billion. kr. It will be an investment for the future that will pay off significantly through lower costs in the long term, smarter construction and materials with lower emission characteristics. I want to challenge the government to think visionally and long-term about the realization of new E39.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3969	The debate of the throne gives us the opportunity to look forward. What are the challenges of our time, and how do we solve these? The Labour Party will build the country further, and we think it's a good idea to do the big problems together. We who are so lucky that we get to be elected by people in this wonderful country, or the people's representatives, as the king says in the throne, have a job of making people's everyday lives a little bit better, a little bit simpler. One of the major global trends is that several move to cities and urban areas, including Norway. We can and should, of course, slow down urban growth, but stopping it is probably not possible, either globally or in our country. We must have and must have a rural policy, but we must and must also have a metropolitan policy – an active and forward-looking metropolitan policy, where we have solutions to future challenges such as: Where should people live and how should people be transported? Future traffic growth in Oslo and Akershus and other metropolitan areas must be taken collectively, with track, bus and boat, with the new Folloban, with track to Fornebu and track to Aarhus, Akershus University Hospital in Lørenskog, and then to Lillestrøm. New railway tunnel and new T-Bahn in Oslo will also have to be built and the seasily intercity sections in the East supplemented with a new Ringeriksbahn. Taking up Kongsvingerbanen and Gjøvikbanen, we're starting to get a good track offer in the capital area. In VG 4 September under the heading ‘Tut and drive!’ the Transport Committee is not in a tight position. Now the NSB monopoly is to be broken by the blue-blue bad, we can read, and the committee chairman says: "We shall brush out of the tube so much toothpaste that the Ap does not get to put it back." In the change of lines with the Minister of Transport earlier in the debate, I tried to clarify what this really means. What's going to be broken and squandered? We don't get any answers to that, but I guess it's the NSB that the government now wants to live. Today, the NSB presented its results for the first eight months of this year. It shows a record result, 1.4 million more train trips than the same period last year, so something good has to be done by the NSB. I hope the government doesn't ruin it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3985	There has been an interesting debate to follow. It is to a certain extent about structure and how we should shape our public sector, with the tensions we are facing in terms of centralising the population versus those living in the districts, who will also need future services. The health care of the patient has been mentioned. For the Left, it is important to invest in good health and the health care of the patient. We are facing a good deal of large investment in the health sector. The relationship between primary health services and specialist health services is therefore important – what the new municipalities we are discussing should provide services in the health sector. On the other hand, we are facing hospital administrators who want to invest heavily in visionary constructions and environments. This leads us into a space where, as politicians, we have a challenge to follow up on what service developments are taking place at the different levels. In the case of Ruspacents, those who are mentally ill and chronically ill, it is a challenge that they fall slightly between primary care and specialist healthcare. It is in particular their offer that we in the Left will focus on. It's about structure and health information, but most of all it's about the individual patient. In particular, in the case of rubrics, after-shave protection is very important. Today we are in the situation that, on an annual basis, we invest a lot in the detoxification of many patients, while we have a primary health service and a municipal sector that is unable to care for the patients on which we have spent so much money. Here we need better interaction between the use of funds by the state and the provision to be made by the local government. It will not only require investment in construction, but also require a flow of skills between those levels that we are not quite close to today. It will be an important task for us, in the context of the primary health message, to be discussed in the Chamber next year, and in the context of the National Health and Hospital Plan and Public Health Communication, to use some political debate to set our policy framework for which healthcare we want for the future and to take the municipal sector on board: What capacity, what resources are we going to have new municipalities to contribute to? In particular, this applies to those who are currently addicted to drugs, and we are not successful enough in bringing in as active citizens for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e3994	During a line change earlier today, Høres Kristin Vinje expressed her regret that I was not satisfied with the Teacher Lift that the government relaunched last Tuesday. Let me explain that dissatisfaction. Many had great expectations, especially after the autumn conflict between the teachers and the KS. Representatives from the government were relatively early in the day and made it clear that changes were taking place here. My question earlier today was what measures in the government’s teacher’s vow will help the students and teachers here and now, and not only in three to ten years’ time – the answer was a stronger recording requirement for teacher training. It says that it will only happen for those starting in 2016-2017, and is finished in 2021 – the answer was a five-year master's education for teachers. It says that it will only happen in 2017 – the answer was that teachers should be educated in the subjects in which they teach, of course. This one says that it might have to be done in 2029. There are many good points, many are adjustments to things that are already going on, but the action force is not impressive. It's also interesting to see the government's priorities against each other. Last year it took just a few days to give billions of dollars in tax cuts, while the minister of knowledge, on his part, had to take away the students to finance his own school actions. There's a lot of study points and character requirements in the government's teacher's lift. I do not disagree with many of these measures. Nevertheless, we have to be careful not to get too narrow. The continuing training system for teachers must continue to be strengthened in order to widen its range. So far, the government has only invested in math and natural sciences. What, for example, with the teachers of the 80 000 vocational students? We have to dare to commit ourselves and the school owner to red tape more than we've been to now. Here we have not taken the necessary steps, and I also think the Minister in the debate today is far too little concrete. Several groups of professionals entering school can relieve teachers and play an important role in learning. For example, we have to. have more staff in the school health service. We need to continue working on early work, more educators need to be hired to detect, relieve and help both teachers and students early. This costs money, whether the government wants it or not. The government is satisfied and says that they are now doing what they said they should do in the election campaign. That's in itself right – at tortoise speed. The problem is that it's not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4009	The debate on beliefs is an important debate on values and choices. For us in the Workers' Party, it's about further developing the world's best welfare society. There is no doubt that we have been successful in Norway compared to other countries, and we have been lucky, among other things. with the resources, but it's more than that. We have chosen to organise Norway on the basis of a Community idea, how equal opportunities, equivalency and small differences have been bearable ideas. These ideas have required us to set up the policy afterwards. Three points can be summarised: strong public welfare services, a well-organised and safe working life and a sprawl layer where welfare is financed, and where one is taxed according to the ability to mitigate differences. There has always been a high rise in policy alignment in Norway, but that does not mean, of course, that everything has been and is what it should be. Not everyone gets the help they need and deserve, and too many fall outside. Our welfare society therefore needs to be constantly renewed, and we need to look critically at what and how we prioritise our common resources. But that doesn't mean you're going to throw waste on what's the most successful thing with Norwegian society, that's a community built on community and solidarity. One shall be careful to paint a certain person on the wall of Norwegian politics. Nevertheless, there is reason to warn against what appears to be an attempt to dismantle the Norwegian welfare society from the Right-Fremskrit Party government. We are all going to take responsibility for renewing and improving important areas of society, but weakening the labour environment law, commercialising and privatising the school, increasing the privatisation and red tape of health care, cutting taxes for the wealthiest and uncritically selling out the community's resources is not a policy that is the best for most people. Today’s government has been clearly informed when they have sent out their proposals at the hearing, but the government – with the so-called knowledge party at its head – does not seem to be interested in it. Ideological considerations trump the consideration of what serves mankind. Nobody in the election campaign kept saying, 'People, not billions.' Where have humans gone from?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4022	Norway is changing. The census describes both demographic changes, climate challenges and the fact that oil activity will not necessarily drive our future economic growth. This alerts us that as a nation we have some fundamental challenges ahead of us. I'm glad we have a government that's working on it, and has a proactive relationship with these changes. The government is solving important tasks today and equips Norway for the future. Values must be created before they can be distributed, and our well-being is largely based on a high level of professional participation and a competitive business. The framework for value creation is important, and over several years we have worked up a high level of costs in relation to our trading partners. Furthermore, the growth in productivity has been weak over a few years, and although the petroleum sector has had a high level of investment, this unfortunately does not reflect itself in the mainland industry, which has invested little in recent years. It is good that in February the government appointed a commission to identify the causes of weaker productivity growth and make concrete proposals on how to strengthen productivity and growth capacity in the Norwegian economy. It is also good that the government announces that more investment will be made in infrastructure, more in knowledge and research and more in innovation. All these elements are important growth factors for business and our future competitiveness. We are delivering what we promised. The inheritance tax has been removed, we have reduced taxes on businesses and people, and the government warns that it will continue to work to reduce taxes and taxes. This is an important contribution to making our industry and Norwegian jobs more competitive and profitable. In many ways, in particular, we have a property tax that actually means that we favour foreign owners at the expense of Norwegian owners. We want to strengthen the private capital base and stimulate more Norwegian private capital to be invested in Norwegian enterprises and Norwegian jobs in the future. In the Communication to the Norwegian Government on the state of Norway, it is clear that the northern regions are Norway’s main area of foreign policy interest. The government has launched a new chapter in the North Region Initiative through an increased emphasis on knowledge-driven business development. The Nordic regions are, from an economic point of view, the areas of opportunity, including: rich natural resources and opportunities for new sailing patterns due to higher temperature and less sea ice on the one hand, but also special environmental and sustainable development challenges on the other. It is important that, in future, the government pursues an active north-eastern policy, which is also announced in the throne.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4036	We've heard a lot about the patient's health care system and the reintroduction of percentages today. On the other hand, what we have heard little about between the tax cuts and the flakes is what matters most: how are we going to avoid all these people getting into the health system? How are we going to avoid that so many fall outside, that so many fall down from the bridge and into the river, when we cross together? How are we to prevent children who come to the kindergarten with bruises from going home without the bruises being discovered? How should we prevent children from going to school and feel that they are not being seen? That is what the debate on the throne will be about – our solutions for the next year, not on tax cuts, on capital thrones and on capitalless, rather than fruit, than health. There's more talk about what's been going on, about what you've got in the last year, than what you want to do. I hear simple message phrases designed in some communication offices more than if the Right and Advance Party would like to do. For us in the Working Party, it is so much more important that everyone is seen. That's why we say we want more teachers, because it's something that it's worth investing in for the future, is that all children are seen. And even though there are some commas and some zero-point paragraphs that show that it has a little more effect on the continuing education of teachers, it means so much that the individual should stay in school, that one is seen, that one gets early follow-up, and that one gets close follow-up when one has a tough time. That's the exact same thing about lifestyle diseases, which we see more of in our society today. That's why the Workers' Party is betting on school fruit first, as a step that leads to a healthier everyday life in a part of a world where we see life-style diseases flourish, where we see cancer, where we see diabetes, where we see obesity increase, and where children are bullied for what they get, what they get from their parents. We haven't got any solutions for that. We have not received an answer either – because the wealth tax is so much more important. It's not people who are important to the position in this persuasion debate; it's billions, it's capital wealth, it's capital owners, it's capitalists. It's obvious that Reulf Steen was right when he said that the heart beats on the left, and that's where the Workers' Party is, because we put people in front of billions, and we put school, older people and children in front of tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4045	Last Thursday we got to the right the best number of thrones in eight years. It was a throne speech with optimism, the threat of the future and the will to change. This is a brilliant follow-up of the valender of the Right-Forward Party government. It is very gratifying to see that the government is already doing well to make important changes in many areas to turn Norway into an even better country to live in, and we have already seen a powerful government. The government is solving important tasks today in order to equip Norway for the future. The blue-blue government bases its policy on trust in individuals, families and communities and makes it clear in the Commons that it will use all the good powers to facilitate value creation, founders and voluntary teams and organisations. This is a very sensible policy, which is in stark contrast to what the red-green government has done in its eight years. The right-wing party government has already reduced taxes and charges for ordinary people and Norwegian business owners, just to strengthen competitiveness and create safe jobs for the future. We also see that the government is investing in research and innovation to create the ideas and solutions that the world can live with, and that Norway will live on in the future. A good example of this is that the government already in the budget for this year, i.e. 2014, pledged 0.5 billion. kr more for research, approx. One and a half billion. kr more for transportation and approx. 1 billion. kr to business tax credits in relation to the Workers' Party's alternative budget. Last Monday the government presented the learning promise, which is one of the pillars of the new knowledge ball. The main point of the learning promise is that all learners will meet a teacher with depth in math, English and Norwegian; there will be five-year master's education for teachers; one will increase the admission requirement from 3 to 4 in math to enter the teacher's education; further escalation of continuing education; and the introduction of pilot schemes for new career paths for teachers. All of this is very good. In addition, there are many important bet areas from the government. Traffic and other health infrastructure and quality are important keywords. Based on the signals so far, it will be exciting to see what is coming in the state budget in two days. Our committee has dealt with important issues such as municipal reform and regional reform, as well as the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has already set out the course for a major modernisation of the public sector. Simplification, renewal with a main focus on better welfare services and more local democracy is one of the most important tasks of the Storting in the years to come. If our country is to be able to meet the challenges of the future, we have to close this down, and it's going to be exciting to see if the opposition will actively participate in this development, or if they want to stand on the side bar here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4067	We're a privileged people. We live in a democratic, free country, as well as being one of the richest countries in the world. We're sitting on a golden branch. Developments in the country have been adventurous since oil took its toll on Ecofisk in 1969, which started the oil adventure seriously. Looking around Europe, there are still economic challenges following the high unemployment financial crisis, especially among young people, and weak economic growth. One may become afraid and unwell when one sees what is going on in Syria and Iraq. We see images and reporters that beat us to the end and are almost beyond our comprehension. It's important to put things in perspective. The world is changing. Petroleum has had a lot to say about the economic growth in Norway and the financing of the Norwegian welfare community. The low level of investment activity associated with this sector now shows rapid employment and employment outcomes. In my home country, Telemark, we received alarming figures from Nav for September – an increase in unemployment in the 13th century. in relation to the same period last year. The employment rate is highest in construction. Yes, we see a little darker clouds in the sky. We have a high level of wages and costs, and it is therefore important that we do what we can to strengthen our competitiveness. The government announces an increase in the investment in transport, which is unlikely to be important for business throughout the country. The economy itself emphasises the development of transport as one of the most important industrial policies. The government has already captured grep and reduced the planning time of new projects. Roads will be built faster and more holistically in the future. Perhaps the most important field of action is knowledge, our main future competitive advantage. Teacher-lifting will be carried out in the form of a major commitment to the further and further training of teachers. Here, it is important that school owners and teachers play on the same layer. The government announces an offensive industrial policy that will stimulate establishment, increase investment, productivity and growth. The government wants to change the Labour Environment Act to strengthen its competitiveness. In the state budget last year, the inheritance tax was abolished from 1 January 2014, the property tax was reduced, and business tax was taxed and research was increased. Norway is changing. We must show willingness to change in order to meet future challenges. In many cases today’s solutions are not responding to tomorrow’s challenges. I am pleased that we have a government that shows the power of action and implementation in the new time we are going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4088	The right-wing party government makes everyday life easier for most people – and so on, we give the people more freedom of choice between several measures. It falls the opposition, and especially the Working Party, heavy on the chest. In a society where people don't know their own best, steering from cradle to grave is the only solution, seems to be the way of thinking in this environment. So it's a problem that people can choose between tobacco or wine quotas. There is a problem of freedom of choice within the parental leave, and it is a problem for those who are affected by disease that there are opportunities. Furthermore, gender equality policy is very much involved. But when are people going to be as equal to politicians as they think they know so much better what makes it look like? It's not a good solution for people to be gathered in flocks when they're going to be different. That's why I'm happy to represent a government that believes in the individual – the mother, the father of the teacher or the apprentice. We're an enlightened nation where most people know their own best and manage to make their own decisions. This government also has great faith in our business and is concerned that growing tax incentives should give individual businesses and business opportunities to create new jobs rather than allow them to pass through the tax systems, so that they are allocated to the tools – and so, after an extensive application process, the money is returned to businesses. Then it's easier and better to let the company keep more of the excess itself. And it's something far from giving to those who already have the most. Last, but not least, this government's commitment to commerce is incredibly important. When asked by company managers in my county about what is most important, we get the following answers: commitment to society and accessibility. It is also an important climate action to ensure good performance, where we can give advantage to those who choose to use zero-emission or low-emission cars – and preferably within a cost level for most people. Because in climate change, which many have been involved, we go from eight years of action – expressed by some – to action. This government will strengthen the climate agreement, we will strengthen the climate fund, strengthen renewables, strengthen energy conversion and strengthen rainforest conservation – to name a few. This is beyond the power of the red-green government, because it might be thinking of a faulty moon landing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4101	The throne commanded a government that would do something for land and people, but the throne also commanded a people who would not be enough of themselves. The situation in Syria is profoundly serious. Beast terror drives hundreds of thousands of people on the run. Norway will help – we have a tradition to help – and we have set up 750 million. kr in humanitarian aid in 2014. Developments in Ukraine have been a security policy wake-up. International law has been set aside, and we are once again seeing the importance of NATO as a security anchor for Norway. The voters wanted new ideas and better solutions at the 2013 elections, and the government delivers. The government has put private capacity into use and will implement free treatment choices to reduce the health queue. The inheritance fee has been removed, but the heirs of the red-green booklets are still in place. In the justice sector, heritage is of various quality. Prisons are detonated, the settlement queue is long and the maintenance crew in the prisons is at a staggerable 4.5 billion. kr. It's a red-green inheritance that this government has to do something with. As usual, I listened with great interest to the representative’s comments. Largely indicated that the Workers' Party will support the municipal mergers and that the Workers' Party looks forward to a case of new police structures. It's a good promise. Norway’s population does not get as good a police as money use should be. There are far too many differences between police districts in terms of clearance, operational capability and prevention. Injecting more money into today’s police structure without doing anything with the organisation will not be the responsibility of this increase. The government wants the public to have the police they deserve — a visible and competent police force that is fast on the plate when the situation requires it, and a police officer that solves more issues than today. We look forward to the Workers' Party also taking responsibility for this. The conclusions of the Yeast Commission are still on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4114	A lot can probably be said about today's throne debate and about disagreements and consensus in this room, but the attacks on today's government and the course that the government has pulled up have been like a labyrinth from the red-green ones. The head of the Labour Party did not agree with the government's commitment to use the entire health service in the country, both public and private. As usual, ideology was the most important and not the consideration of all those who are in some form of health queue, a health queue that otherwise increased during the period of the red-green crashed country. Furthermore, Gahr Støre called for the upgrading of public transport and traffic development in and around our largest cities. But Gahr Støre said at the same time that the Workers' Party would believe in the economic framework of the national transport plan. There will be less infrastructure construction in the districts, because if more effort is made on one side, there will be consequences for the other as long as the financial framework of the Workers' Party is established. The world and Norway are in transition. If Norway is to take the lead in sustainable development, it is necessary to be more effective, raise our competitiveness and reduce cost levels – a very important part of how we will be able to approach today’s and tomorrow’s challenges. One example is that we have a very big bureaucracy, another is in oil and gas and our offshore business. Many have tried to establish truths such as the depletion of oil and gas resources by 2050. But after the last years of oil and gas discovery through the fracking method in the United States and Canada, it is quite clear that the world will have more than enough oil and gas for the nearest 150-200 years. In addition, Brazil will become a major exporter. Fracking onshore has a much lower cost price than Norwegian offshore business currently has. We see that the margins are going to be smaller, and that the fields need to be larger if they're going to be able to be used. The keyword again is our cost level. If we're going to meet international competition as a nation, we have to do something about it. In this way, the government is quite right: shifts, changes and strengthening our competitiveness in a globalised world will be very important in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4123	Politics plays a role. What priorities we do in this room have something to say for social development and what results we get. The bourgeois majority of voters who put their trust in 2013 joined forces in elections — and are now in the process of implementing — a school policy that gives priority to the first. Finally, a new majority has been able to implement the policy proposed — and voted down by the red-greens for eight years. I think the most important thing is the debate on what we should prioritise in the future. But at the same time, I have to say that today's speeches by red-green education politicians contribute to a creative story of history and a criticism of today's government that is really directed towards their own reign. The representative Trond Giske has repeatedly criticized the government for delaying the schoolteacher's demands. I fully agree with that. It came about. eight years late. The truth is, the red-greens never introduced a depression requirement for all the teachers. Now that they think that the Right Party government should have been faster, I can recommend red-green representatives looking for scapegoats instead of taking a long and good look in the mirror. If the requirement had been imposed eight years ago, we would have finished by 2017. Red-green criticism that this is too late, can thus in its entirety be addressed to the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party's legacy after eight years of government. The right-hand Party Government has launched a massive boost to the continuing training of teachers. In the additionalproposal last year, the government increased its effort by more than 300 million. kr. In the revision came another 200 million. kr. To believe the History of the Workers' Party, there has been a broad consensus about investing in further education and ensuring teachers the broad promise they themselves have been calling for for for many years. Well, the last budget the red-greens showed up before they went off, increased the rate of further education for teachers with zero dollars. If they had won the election, if they had renewed their confidence in a new red-green majority, this promise would not have come, despite standing high and dark in the election campaign and promising a double in the current period. When the representative, Mr. Thinning Bjørnø, accuses the government of fulfilling the promises «in tortoise speed», it is after we have completed a lift of the red-green lot to carry out for eight years. If this government is a turtle, at least the tempo of the Workers' Party is a dead turtle. We introduce teachers' vows, we introduce increased admission requirements, we introduce a five-year master's education, and we clean up the bureaucracy that the red-greens failed to do anything about. I'm proud of that, and from now on, I hope we can agree to talk about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4140	One of the biggest societal problems we have, and one of the most serious issues in the field of justice is in close relationships. This is a serious crime and must continue to be a priority. In addition to gross crime, choice in close relations is a very important equality theme that requires an active and modern gender and family policy. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Family Affairs and the Minister of Justice have all said that the fight against violence in close relations is a high priority. It gives me great hope that they will deliver with a real bet in this field of the budget that is coming. Either Ulf Leirstein has followed very poorly or he wants to blackmail the strong bet the previous government had in this area when he says that left-hand politicians only talk about this in party speeches. It coincides with its own primacy, but I look forward to the Progress Party acting in this field. When the Minister of Justice handed out 50 million to the previous government. kr for research on the matter in close relations, he calls it a change of pace. The Prime Minister has highlighted the work of violence against women and children as the most important woman in his March 8 speech, while Siv Jensen promoted the fight against coerciveness and gender mutilation. Together, this gives us a good reason to have great hopes for the first judicial budget that Anders Anundsen himself has taken care of. We're excited to see if he's coming up. I am pleased that the previous government action plan against violence in close relations has broad political support. As you know, the Labour Party got several figures here in Stortinget this year to strengthen children's homes – it's a responsibility. Government council Solvency Horne has on several occasions promised to be a minister of children's houses. Unlike the party trap Ulf Leirstein roses councillor Horne often the work the previous government laid down in this area. I expect that the promise from Horne is given in dialogue with both the Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister and the rest of the government. In that case, they have full support from the Labour Party for this. When it comes to the debate today, I can't help noticing that I heard that hatred was mentioned by the pulpit. We might be able to think about different settings here that can put the feeling of hate into, but we rarely use the word. I just have to say that it is striking that in this year's great debate on the throne, it was used for tolls. I understand that the dissatisfaction with this is great in the Progress Party. That they promised to remove everyone if they came to power and couldn't do it, is a fact. I can understand that one can dislike it, but hating it – of all the imaginable things I can come to realize that I hate, I can't say that toll stations give me that feeling. I want to say, as my colleague, Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen from the Right in Telemark, said in his post, that it is important to put things in perspective, and I urge Right to remind the governmentmate of the Progress Party on it internally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4153	The security policy situation in Europe, with a number of serious conflicts affecting our neighbourhoods, has become a strong wake for Norway, the EU and NATO. We have been reminded that peace and stability in Europe cannot be taken for granted. In the conflict picture, it is our fundamental social values that are threatened: democracy, human rights, the rule of law and the principles of international law. Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe, where our friends, neighbours and main trading partners are located. It is therefore reassuring and essential for Norway and our interests with the emphasis that the government is now putting on cooperation with our closest allies, on the value community that is in Europe. The government has paved the way for a new and historically ambitious course that involves a more active European policy. The creation of a separate ministerial post responsible for EU/EEA coordination has proved to be a strategically very important step in this way, for Norwegian domestic policies are also increasingly influenced by what is happening in Europe. EU legislation affects all areas of Norwegian policy and social life. In areas such as climate and environment, energy security, research and innovation, the EU is developing a new policy of major importance for Norway. Making better use of our interests in EU and EEA matters by entering into processes of relevance to Norway in the past ensures good conditions with EEA membership, and access to the internal market is essential for the competitive conditions, value creation and jobs of industry in Norway, today and for the welfare of the future. The government is also offensive in clarifying the consequences of the EU-US negotiations on a new trade agreement, TTIP, could have for Norway. At the same time, the EU is developing and emerging as an increasingly important player in foreign and security policy. Many of the important debates related to Ukraine are found, for example: This is precisely the case in the EU. The sanctions imposed by the EU against Russia are being extended. Norway has taken independent decisions on action, but on the same basis as the EU — Russia’s actions must have consequences. At the same time, the measures in place concern Norwegian export-oriented industries. The Government is in close dialogue with the sectors concerned on the implications of these measures. Although the situation is perceived as demanding for more people, the consequences of not standing up to international law could be much more serious. We have to show that Norway, together with our partners and allies, is opposed to violations of international law and law. I am pleased that the government will continue to cooperate with the EU and EU countries on action, but strong NATO will, of course, continue to be the cornerstone of the Norwegian defence and security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4164	Let me also first of all congratulate the NTNU and the Moser pair, not only for the Nobel Prize itself, which in itself is of course an enormous delight, but also for all that work and all the research that is behind it, and that will come in the years to come. You and many, many other researchers and research communities make us rich and proud, and it shows that it is useful to invest in education and research also in a small country like Norway. This year's census has been in many ways different from previous years' speeches. While many of the previous years' speeches have been characterized by little politics and perhaps little vision, this year has set a new standard. That, I think, has made the debate in retrospect qualitatively improved because it is more policy to discuss. If we're going to be able to recreate multiple Moser, we're going to have to bet on knowledge. If we are to arm the welfare community for the future, we need to invest in the knowledge society today. We are facing many reforms in the public sector in the coming years. One of these reforms is in the higher education, university and higher education sectors. In a few years, we'll have fewer institutions than we have today, and I think that makes sense. But it's not like the map is drawn first, and then it comes with the content. First, you have to set the quality requirements, and then the structure comes after it. An example of this is the conversion of teacher training. Strict admission requirements and making teacher training a five-year master's course would have something to say about the structure of higher education together with many other measures. Such things are always difficult. Fights between institutions and regions that fight for themselves and for themselves often leave the debate behind and we forget what the main goal is. It is not that a small country like Norway can invest a lot in everything everywhere. That's why I think there's basically a convergence of interests between institutions, regions and nation. I think it's important to remember when the debate starts, more specialisation, more sharpness and increased pressure on quality will rust Norway for the future. What has not been mentioned by so many in this debate is the long-term research plan that comes together with the State budget. It is linked to great expectations, even outside this house. To achieve the 3pst goal, we need to invest more public funds in research, but at least the same importance is to stimulate private and business life. If we are to increase the return share of Horizon 2020, the world's largest research programme, we need to facilitate more people to compete on equal terms with their European partners and competitors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4176	The next speaker is the representative of Laila Davidsen, who is the last speaker in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4179	Over the course of the year, the government is showing a clear political direction and is offensive in order to deliver what is promised. A targeted focus on further development and the organisation of Norwegian business is needed, it is lagging behind. In Norway, we all have opportunities if we choose to take them ourselves. We can do all the necessary steps in time to ensure a business life that enables us to grow as a society, and that enables us to safeguard the welfare systems we will also have in the future. Therefore, it is essential that better framework conditions for business are now established throughout the country. A grip that we know works is good and predictable infrastructure. Today we have too many bottlenecks to allow businesses, which are far from the markets, to transport their goods in good flow and in a fast and safe way. This has seen this government and is now taking action to improve that situation. After many years of increased lag on both the investment side and the maintenance side on Norwegian roads, we see a change of pace, and that is a change of pace that is absolutely necessary for several reasons. One is road safety for all who travel along our roads. Today's image is not good enough, we actually have a number of roads that go under the category "Critical Mode". For the nation of Norway this may not be acceptable. The increased investment in infrastructure and transport will also ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian industry, not least in districts. We have a lot of value creation around the country, and we're going to keep doing that, and we're going to develop it further. That is why I am pleased that there is now a full focus on giving all parts of the country the opportunity to develop both renewable and non-renewable resources, so that jobs and value creation are maintained and further developed across the country. The possibilities are there, we've been waiting long enough to put them into practice. The right went to the choice of creating safe jobs and improving today's infrastructure. I am very pleased that this year's speech clearly confirms that the election vows are being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-06.ana.ud1448e4186	That concludes today's debate. The examination of case No. I'll continue tomorrow at 1:00 a.m. 10, and the first speaker is Prime Minister Erna Solberg. - The meeting's been cancelled.
