ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e26	The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, has taken the seat. The representative of Arild Grande shall apply for parental leave from 27 February to 5 March. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e44	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Kjenseth, Trine Skei Grande and the undersigned, I would like to make a proposal for the development of a new elected regional level to replace the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e49	The representative, Ingrid Heggø, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e52	On behalf of the representatives of Helga Pedersen, Knut Storberget, Odd Omland, Martin Henriksen, Tove Karoline Knutsen, Kåre Simensen, Anna Ljunggren, Marit Arnstad, Janne Sjelmo Nordås and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the universal service of cod fishing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e57	The representative, Mr Ingebrichtsen, will also make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e60	I have the pleasure of presenting a proposal by Mr. Torgair Knag Fylkesnes, Mr. Audun Lysbakken and myself that the fishing quotas should remain in the community and ensure stable access to raw materials for business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e65	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e77	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e84	We've put behind us two fantastic weeks of impressive sports performances and amazing sports experiences in the Olympics, and behind every medal there's an infinite number of training hours, but there's also an infinite number of hard work hours, because Norwegian sports performances would not have been possible without that wide-ranging sport, without that volunteer, without the effort of volunteering in Norwegian sports every single day. This voluntary nature is supported primarily by the community through the typing funds, through the Norwegian game model. It's crucial for both balloons, ski facilities, football courses and a lot more. In addition, gambling policy is essential to support other areas of volunteering — relief organisations, preparedness organisations, music resorts, cultural life and much more. We have noticed that the government has announced a change in game policy. It mentions it itself as a significant conversion, and we see from other countries that have made similar conversions that it involves less money for volunteering, less money for sports, both because more money goes to dividends for owners, and because much more money goes to marketing. That's also why sports Norway warns against this conversion, that Red Cross, the Rescue Company, Norwegian People's Aid and others are warning, because they see that gambling policy is crucial in order to take care of one of the finest things in the Norwegian social model, namely that we have a strong voluntary sector with a lot of voluntary efforts. My question to the Prime Minister is: why does the government want to change a game policy that has secured funding for volunteering and sport in Norway over many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e93	The government agrees that gambling policy is an important part of the revenue of the voluntary sector. We agree that it is a significant and important area to ensure that we have the security and predictability of revenue for all forms of voluntary activity in the years to come. Therefore, it is also very clear and clear in the government platform that the government does not want to do anything that threatens the exclusive right model of Norwegian Typing. We want to stop the creation of several non-addictive lotteries that can generate revenue for volunteering, but we have said that we will only do it if we are able to maintain the exclusive model in parallel. The government is now working on that. In this work, we have now had a more difficult situation in view of the lack of principles of the previous government in game policy. We have received an opening letter from ESA in connection with a legal case in which we question the lack of principles of the previous government for which lotteries are approved on the page. It also means asking questions about parts of the exclusive rights model at this opening phase. That is why the government is now working intensively on the answers to the letter we received from ESA. This is because the previous government, whom Jens Stoltenberg knows well, approved one private lottery and said no to another, without there being transparent rules for the principles for which lotteries were to be approved. So at the moment, gambling policy in Norway is primarily in danger by the fact that the previous government had not cleaned up and had clear conditions around the treatment of lotteries on the side of Norwegian Typing. That's why we now have a possible ESA case around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e100	The previous government had a very tidy and clear relationship with the game policy, namely by securing the exclusive right model, which ensures income for sport and for volunteering. We also won extensive legal proceedings, including: with ESA, because we had neatness in these principles. It is the new government that both announces what they call a significant change, and intends to deal with individual matters before a clear and comprehensive new policy has been outlined. Both parts weaken the exclusive right model, both play the game policy. The game the Prime Minister is aiming for, I think, is a bottle-stop lottery, and it's a limit to how addictive it is to pawn bottles – and at least how much it threatens the exclusive model of Norwegian gambling policy. So I am very sure that what the previous government did there is good in Norwegian game policy. What the new government is notifying, on the other hand, is both a whole new policy and dealing with individual matters before new principles have been established. Both parts threaten the voluntary nature of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e109	The representative Stoltenberg is wrong when he says that we want to do this without having new legislation in place. We are just working on new legislation, which is now complicated by ESA's requests for the policies of the former government. It was the government of Stoltenberg that introduced a vague rule for new lottery licenses, allowing only a few players. We first have to clean that up as a result of ESA having now addressed this issue. This means that questions about lottery policy due to ESA's questions have been put a little while ago. It is difficult to specify the time period for this process, but we are concerned with having cleanness and clear rules, so that we do not get the kind of things that we have now received an opening letter from ESA on, based on the policy of the government of Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e114	Follow-up questions are given – first Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e117	In Finland, too, there has been an ESA case related to gambling monopolies, where Finland has chosen to tighten up to have better rules, so that there is no ambiguity. Then there is a question to ask the Prime Minister: Will the Norwegian Government provide for any restrictions that will allow us to maintain the exclusive model that we have today, which contributes to less gambling than we had before, and which is a good social policy model? And why is it so important to signal that a private-time postal code lottery will be allowed before the necessary investigations have been carried out? The Minister of Culture has repeatedly said here in this Chamber that the Postal Code lottery will be licensed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e122	It is precisely because of the previous government's denial of the Postal Code lottery after the state lottery control said that it was not addictive and was not in competition with Norwegian Tipping's game – but they said no to it and yes to another private lottery – that we now have a case from ESA, which means that the government has now said: Just to keep the exclusive model, we need to clean up what was not cleaned up by the previous government, and have clear, clear principles for which policy we are going to have in the lottery area. It's possible that it's the opposition's desire that we make neat rules because you didn't even have neat rules, which now makes us have a new ESA case going on. In principle, we believe that it is important that we do not have political rules on which lotteries we have, but clear, clear rules, and that the Lottery Authority should have the right to decide. That's the line we're working on, and that's the line we should have in the future once we've cleared up after the previous government and the problems we've now got with ESA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e127	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e130	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is so firm that the model of exclusive rights is to stand firm, and that we are sure that the instrument of Norwegian Typing will continue to combat gambling addiction. But Norwegian Typing is also important because it provides income for voluntary teams and organisations, and the Christian People's Party wants a bet on volunteering. In the government platform and in the cooperation agreement, we have volunteered, and one of the important measures that I'm engaged in is to remove VAT on volunteering, because it's a paradox that if Agder Energy buys a snowmobile to control the masts in winter, they can deduct VAT, but if Red Cross buys the same scooter to help save lives, they have to pay VAT. That is why it is an important measure, which we want to get through, like increasing the tax deduction, so that when individuals want to give gifts to non-governmental organisations, they can also get tax relief for it. I want to challenge the Council of State on these two measures. Is there something the Prime Minister sees there will come more of in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e136	We agree that it is important to stimulate voluntary organisations to have their own income. It's actually a volunteer in itself to contribute in different ways to funding volunteering. Having own income bases also makes you much stronger as an organisation to develop new projects and new offers that we all later stand and applaud. This is what the Refugee Guides have done in connection with the work of the Red Cross, as we have done in the area of future. That is why we are concerned that it should be possible to have both lottery revenues for non-governmental organisations and to extend the tax deduction, and we are, of course, concerned that we should keep the cost level down. Our principal starting point was the same as the Christian People's Party, that it should be an automatic in the VAT deduction. Now we've set up a system, and I'm very concerned that we have to listen to the volunteer organizations before we make any changes to that system. However, it is important that we keep the deduction framework, the compensation framework, in place, precisely because voluntary organisations are an incredibly important part of the welfare society of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e141	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e144	The games pot and the games have been of great use since Norwegian Typing was established in 1948. Over 100 B.C.E. kr has been awarded good social benefits over all these years. What I see now is that the government is starting to put this monopoly into play, and I see the Prime Minister who is unaware whether she and the government will still stand on the side of Sport-Noreg and Volunteer-Noreg in view of still fighting for a gambling monopoly in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e149	Lottery revenues have been an important part of funding for volunteering in Norway long before Norwegian Typing or the exclusive right model was established. It is important to remember that very many organisations had lotteries on their side, with huge revenues, while gradually developing more and more of a monopoly situation in this area. In particular, the large humanitarian organisations, which have had their own lotteries with high incomes and which have gradually been phased in. That's what we've done to make sure that volunteering gets the money in the years to come. It is not this government that creates ambiguity around the framework conditions – it is the lack of clarity of the previous government in what should be allowed on the page. We have several lotteries that are on the side of Norwegian Typing's exclusive right model, so it was the previous government that didn't have clear principles when it said yes to one and no to one. That's why we now have an opening case from ESA that we have to clear up before we start the long-term measures that the government wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e154	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e157	The representative Stoltenberg started by referring to the OL in Sochi, and I am aware that the Prime Minister has also been there. At the same time as the battle for medals in Sochi, there has been a completely different fight in a neighbouring country, namely a fight for freedom and democracy – I am talking of course about Ukraine. There are many human rights issues that have been on the agenda this past week – Ukraine, the human rights situation itself in Russia and now the latest situation for homosexuals in Uganda. But back to Ukraine: we are well aware that the Prime Minister had a conversation with his Russian colleague under the Olympics in Sochi. There we know that human rights were affected as a topic. I think the Stortinget is interested in hearing what the Prime Minister has to say about those talks, but I also have a question about whether the situation in Ukraine was addressed in that meeting, where we know that Russia has played and will play an important role, either to be with and stabilize the country, or perhaps the opposite, namely to destabilise Ukraine. So my challenge goes to the Prime Minister in these two areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e164	Let me start with the question of human rights in general. We believe that this is an important part of Norway’s foreign policy – that it should be in terms of both foreign policy and aid policy in the years to come. How we promote human rights can be slightly different from what countries it is about. It has to do with the possibility of mobilising civil society, whether society is involved, and how development is progressing — in a positive or negative direction. This is why the government has decided that before the summer we will present a big message for discussion on human rights in foreign and aid policy in the years to come, because we believe that this is an important topic to shed light on in order to have good common strategies associated with this. In the talks I had with the prime minister of Russia, Medvedev, we concentrated on the issues that have been discussed about human rights in Russia, as well as bilateral Norwegian-Russian talks and relations. I believe it is important that we also point it out when developments in some areas have gone in the wrong direction. I've said that we're going to be concerned with human rights both before, under and after the Olympics in Russia, because it's our largest neighboring country. The development of our largest neighbouring country is too important that also happens in cross-border cooperation. We had no direct conversations then about the situation in Ukraine, except that it was affected as a generally difficult situation. This was a week before the major upheavals occurred. I have to say that I think most of us had a feeling that Saturday the Ukrainian skiers won, and at the same time there were big upheavals in the home country – even though we are always nationalistic and want to win ourselves, both of these things made it a big day for Ukraine. What we are now waiting for is to put in place a legitimate government that makes it easier to create good cooperation conditions to stabilise Ukraine in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e171	We're looking forward to, I think, a total increase, getting a debate about assistance and human rights, and what ultimately – I think that's the goal for all of us – promotes human rights. Only on the question of Uganda has it been seen that there are different assessments of what is ultimately best to support under fundamental human rights. With regard to Ukraine, the situation is also that there is going to be a Minister of Defence meeting in NATO, where what we almost have to call the interim leadership in Ukraine is invited. My question then is: What does Norway bring with it the message to this meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e178	The main message we have is that Norway is going to set up a peaceful development in Ukraine, hoping for a united Ukraine, an Ukraine based on democratic principles, and creating a bridge between the regime change and the system change that has now been, which will enable us to build a future Ukraine. It's the most important thing. It is important to learn from what has been successful changes to systems in other countries. It's clear that creating a bridge between these two systems is going to be important. Then we've said that we're going to try to set up economics where we can, through the international mechanisms that are being established, and of course try to influence everyone else to do the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e183	It's given rise to four follow-up questions, first Astrid Aarhus Byrknes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e186	The situation in Ukraine is still very inconceivable and fragile, and there is a very great responsibility on the actors now to govern according to democratic principle. There is a lot of work ahead of you. But then the EU has become a few about sanctions against Ukraine as an international response to what has happened. My challenge to the Prime Minister is this: Does the Prime Minister believe that the new EU sanctions, to which Norway has also joined, as part of the work that is now being carried out, can bring Ukraine out of the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e192	Now, of course, progress has been rapid. On Thursday evening, the EU agreed on changes – what is not called sanctions officially but restrictive measures. On Saturday they had been targeted by the restrictive measures, de facto out of control position. That means, of course, that the situation on the ground has changed significantly in two days. We are now assessing with the other international partners how to move forward. But the persons to whom the sanctions were addressed are not in executive positions today. It was management that was then set, and these were measures that had been put in place to push for changes, and then the changes occurred before the measures had actually begun to work. Now there's going to be a whole new assessment of this, and then you're going to create a new strategy. But here things happened in the people faster than any international decision-making authorities had the opportunity to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e197	Anniken Huitfeldt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e200	My assessment is that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has done a very good job with regard to the situation in Ukraine. I am also pleased that he has signaled that Norway wants to contribute financially. However, like Ukraine, many countries have a poorly developed rule of law, which have poor political stability, where it is important that Norway is committed to raising human rights issues. That is why I think it is important that Norway is involved in many countries. This government has signalled the opposite, by focusing on fewer countries. I think that might be contrary to the objective of promoting human rights. Small democracy projects and small law-enforcement projects can be of great importance if Norway is involved. So my question is, what country will it go beyond when the government has signaled that it will cut contributions to more countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e205	We have said from the government that we will concentrate on both the countries we contribute to, and in which areas and sectors we contribute in the years to come, and that human rights will be held high. That review of aid policy is now under way, and then we come back to the Storting where there will be changes. Of course, it will be reported in the budgets when they come, what proposals for programmes we have in the future. I believe that it is important that human rights is one consideration that we should take into account in aid policy and development policy, but the main concern is to enable countries, when we contribute, to continue their own development in the future. It is then so important that we also concentrate aid. We don't think we're going to have enough control of the money or good enough contributions to the countries we're contributing to, by lubricating it thinly. This is why we want to put greater pressure on the countries to which we are contributing, by providing better skills in countries and by improving the follow-up to the use of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e212	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e215	I am pleased that the government is following up the cooperation agreement they have with the Left to increase the focus on human rights. I think the Minister of Foreign Affairs was good when he was in Ukraine, I think the Prime Minister was exemplary in his clear speech to Russia, and I think it was quick to react also with regard to Uganda. This is about using Norway’s position to promote human rights and the negative trends seen. There are no perfect regimes for human rights, nor Norwegian, but we have to make sure that we can develop this in the right direction. When we look at a big neighbor, as Ukraine really is, the uprising in the streets is about rebellion against a corrupt state – the confidence in the political system is weakened by corruption. Then my question is: is there anything we can do in Norway to build a less corrupt state and a legal state that citizens have more confidence in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e220	First of all, I would like to thank you for the pleasant words from several to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to me. I think I would say that the uprising in Ukraine was not only about a corrupt state, but also about a desire for freedom from young people in Ukraine, who felt that the doors of Europe were closed by the elections of the leadership of the country. It's also important to remember. It is, I think, among young people around the world a greater desire for freedom with the ability to influence their own lives than it has ever been before. There is too much concern about it, and it is very important that all countries address the issue of creating trust. Can we do anything? We can help build organisations, have observers, the human rights control mechanisms that are in different countries, we can learn away what we think are good things about our society. But it is very important to have humility in order for each country to create its own future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e229	Board Vegar Solhjell – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e232	I tried to record under the first main question how many times the Prime Minister used the cover of the ‘previous government’, but I came out of the count. But now I'm going to resort to it myself. Yesterday, Stortinget dealt with an important issue from the ‘previous government’ on human rights, namely the arms export message. A co-congratulation joins a new system to strengthen the fact that we are preventing exports to countries that grossly violate human rights, or are not democratic. We're introducing a checkpoint list, and the government is going to do a risk assessment on a case-by-case basis. In an important note that the plural stood behind, but not the Right and the Advance Party, it says: ‘The majority of the Committee stresses that it is important that the government’s risk assessment does not result in arms being exported to countries where the authorities commit serious violations of human rights.’ [[...]] [[...]] I wonder how the government will follow up this plural comment from Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e244	I believe that that comment does not say anything in content other than what is our arms export policy as of today, that we do not export to countries that have major violations of human rights, or where the weapons can be used against the population, for the rest. I believe that this is fundamental to the arms export policy we have had and will continue to have, with the changes made to this list. So for me, this seems to me to be an unnecessary clarification of what is already absolutely fundamental to how we act in the field of arms exports. So, of course, the question of what is a fundamental violation of human rights may differ in different situations. I can only imagine that in some conflict situations, or in some areas, that discussion will come a little dependent on how you view the parties in the conflict. But the important thing for me is to make sure that weapons are not exported to countries that violate human rights or that can use them in current conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e253	Then the president will allow one follow-up question to, from the representative Jenny Ellaug Følling, and at the same time will remind you that it may be okay for those who subscribe to follow-up questions to do so immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e257	Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende says to NTB that Norway will of course consider how we can properly support a new government and a new president, so that state finances can be made right. Then he stresses that it is of course too early to say anything about the size of an economic aid package. Then I have two questions: What specific features can such a help package contain? And when will this possibly be presented to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e264	We have said that we are going to follow developments in Ukraine, just for, together with the countries around us, to contribute to stabilisation. There are different mechanisms to do this. Some of this can happen through the IMF, which is a commonly used mechanism, in the form of loans. Other ways can be direct support. After all, we have to choose measures a little bit in relation to what other countries around us also choose. And then, first of all, we need to put in place a government and a system in Ukraine that can receive the money and use it in a sensible way, and that has a legitimacy in the future. We have not come so far that we can say when – it will depend on many factors, also many other countries, and not least developments in Ukraine – either how much, because as soon as development has taken place in Ukraine, we can at present neither tell what the need is nor how much we can deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e273	Before Stortinget moves on to the next main question, the President will note that the follow-up questions should be related to the main question. It may be said that a few of the follow-up questions that have been raised have been a little outside of what the main questioner asked questions about. Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e278	We in the Center Party are very concerned with preparedness and good emergency reception. The TV 2 news on Monday had a matter of concern at the emergency reception in Aarhus – one of the country's largest and most modern hospitals. The question was, Should we have the most experienced doctors in the front, or do we play with less experience? When a matter of somewhat the same problem arose last year, before the elections, then opposition politician Bent Höie was very high and very dark. I quote: ‘This is very serious. Because these are the ones patients face in a very serious situation where one does not quite know what is wrong, and then a meeting doctor who has experience should [[...]] For then opposition politician Solberg, this case was an example of the government's failure to implement, and I quote: ‘There is, of course, this lack of implementation. That's when the flood lights are on, when the media debate goes, we politicians are good at saying that we should act, but long-term governance is about remembering things even when the flood lights are of [[...]] On the TV 2 news two days ago, Bent Höie was no longer so tall and dark. It was mostly about ‘taking a step to the side’, but what he was really talking about was taking a step back. So my question to the Prime Minister is, why is it less important for the Right to have the most experienced doctors in the front when they're in position than it was when they were in the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e297	It is incredibly important for this government to strengthen emergency preparedness, the first-line presence, and to ensure that experienced doctors with good competence meet the patients in the emergency wards. That's why this government, when the flood lights haven't been on, has started the work to ensure that what's been good at Ahus, which is still going to be among the best of the country's emergency receptions in the organization of first-line experience, is actually going to be the model for the future elsewhere, by making sure that we get educated people with just that competence. That is why, on 21 November, the Directorate-General for Health was given the mandate and the message to undertake a new specialist training, which is the key to getting the very thing to do that there are experienced people in the first line. The debate we had last year was not really about Ahus, it was about the fact that there were warnings that there were tournament doctors with little time in the first line in some hospitals. We had a warning about that in three years' time. Then Sylvia Brustad put the focus on it right away, but after that it was not possible to find the same focus from the next two health ministers. So this government has started what's the building block one to do something about it. We need to have our own specialist training in the field of reception and emergency medicine in Norway. That means we also get people who have the experience to be there. Today, we get a lot of this expertise by bringing doctors with specialisation from abroad to Norway, and so did Aarhus when they built up the department as it is. So unlike what the questioner gives the impression that this government hasn't done anything, the government has begun to add the important building blocks so that we just get what's going to happen. And Ahus is going to have one of the leading models of heavy first-line competence even after what's happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e310	Last year, opposition politician Höie claimed that it was a chance game to be sent to Norwegian emergency reception – a dry claim. He was clear that we needed action now. Now the answer is that we're going to let a deterioration happen on what was an example last year. It's happening now. Then the second answer is that you have to figure out and focus on the area. Why does the Prime Minister allow a weakening when she and the Minister of Health promised the opposite before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e315	We don't have a governance model of health companies that allows us to go into detail and control individual models and changes. There would be an unsustainable way to control this sector. We have to steer through the broad, big signals. The most important signal we have given is that we are now establishing this specialist training. The Directorate of Health has been commissioned to do that. And we're going to have stronger national governance with the content and quality of the emergency services, as part of what's a national health and hospital plan. So the Health Directorate is working out the future specialist structure and the content of the education for the doctors. And then there is an assessment of the need for a new medical speciality that is geared to the needs of the emergency recipients. We have said that this is the follow-up to the platform on which we are selected. This is also what we said we should do last year. We ensure that it is not by chance that you have to be in Ahus’ impact field to get to the most specialised doctors when you arrive at the emergency room, but that you actually come to specialists who have the background in this, and that you get the good evaluation right away by building this... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e324	The number is also valid for the Prime Minister. Then we open up follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e329	It's this lack of implementation, it's when the floodlights are on, when the media debate goes, that we politicians are good at saying that we should act – that's what you said last April. Today the tone is a completely different one. Today it is that one should build stone by stone, that one cannot control health businesses. Last spring, there was a demand that something be done here immediately. In this area, the government has built great expectations, not just that something should happen, but that things should happen very quickly, and that one should get emergency reception with experienced doctors all over the country. How long will it take before we see the executive that the Prime Minister said last April was so important?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e336	Implementing power is not just doing things when the light is on, it's doing it when the light is off – and we have. We have started work on developing what is needed to ensure that you always meet experienced doctors. If you do not have specialist training in Norway to get the experienced doctors, it is difficult to fill the hospitals with them. Former Health Minister Jonas Gahr Støre said last year to TV 2 that he did not think it was a realistic scenario with superiors in front of the emergency in all hospitals. We actually think it's realistic to do it in the future, but it's completely unrealistic to do it in three and a half months. It is not possible to conjure up doctors with a specialty for which an education has not been established, in the past. It's a major challenge for Ahus, too, that they actually chose to go ahead. So when there's no education in this specialty in Norway today, they're totally dependent on getting doctors from abroad. We've been planning to train Norwegian doctors, and we've been going to make sure that the emergency receivers are in a much better condition than they have been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e345	I think most of us who experience having to visit the country's emergency room because we think we're sick, or because we're obviously injured, of course, are worried – anxious – and need to be met in a way that offers trust, quality and without unnecessary waiting. A lot has happened here, but it can happen more. I am concerned that we need to address what we can do today, what we can do in the shorter term than the Prime Minister suggests. Such speciality as the Prime Minister talks about, I'm open to debate. But it will take many years before we can have a capacity where this will be applicable in many places in the country. The problem is that we have unfortunately experienced a Prime Minister's candidate, who is now Prime Minister, and a head of the Health Committee, who is now Minister of Health, who spoke down on how the country's emergency reception could be organised today. That is the prime minister's responsibility. What can the Prime Minister do in the shorter term than just figure out how we can do this for the future – as I see it today is the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e353	Being critical of the government's lack of implementation is not talking down the emergency receivers. Taking on serious warnings that come, or the Health Authority reports, is also not talking down. What's important is what you do afterwards. Our experience was that after there was a major review from the Health Authority in 2009, which the government then reacted to, we did not see the tracks after that focus these years before there was a new look-up and a warning case related to the emergency receptions. As I said, we're building rocks on rocks to help our emergency receivers get better. It's going to be an important part of the national health plan. We create governance opportunities to focus better on quality than the old governance models. We are also going to make clearer demands on all the country's emergency response. In most emergency services you meet well-qualified doctors, but they can get even better. And we know that it's not good enough everywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e360	After 15 years of experience from a large emergency reception, this engages me. It is not just having qualified doctors there with specialist training, it is also important to have competent nurses and other auxiliary staff. The nurses already have their own specialist training. On 24 June last year the previous government presented a report on medical specialities. It was a report and a review, but no action plan. Now I want to challenge the Prime Minister: I think it's great that the Sundvolden Declaration has taken hold of this, but do you want to get more than medical training? Do you want to impose a requirement of competence on those who are in need of emergency care in order to ensure a whole of an important part of the health care system where you receive the sickest of the sick?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e367	As mentioned, this was one of the first things that the Minister of Health took on about the doctors, because that is where there is the greatest deficiency since there is no specialist training. It will now be investigated and put into place. The second piece is the whole task of creating a national hospital plan that imposes greater content requirements and demands on the size and extent of the population base. It would then be a natural discussion to ask questions as to whether to impose competence requirements in different areas. I don't want to say now that we've decided to do it in detail, because it'll also be important to make sure that it can't conflict with, for example. having good bystanders in a local hospital – that we make such strict demands in all areas that it will not be possible to fill up with enough qualified people in a smaller hospital. These are the dilemmas that Stortinget is going to have to discuss when we say we're going to take a bigger grip on governance through a national hospital plan. Today we have left very much... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e376	It's just to wish the Prime Minister happiness in his quest for focus. I think that after working so long to get responsibility, it would be better for the Prime Minister to take responsibility here and now. Last year, it was in a concrete case that Erna Solberg and Bent Höie felt that the Minister of Health was responsible, and it was very serious and a lack of enforcement that he did not do anything right away. Now there is a new similar and concrete case. So Erna Solberg's answer is that today's Minister of Health can do nothing, because that's the system. No one expects a revolution to occur at the emergency reception stations of three and a half months. But that one of the most important examples of the way this government has said it will go, being built down after three and a half months, is still an example of a lack of implementation. I understand the Prime Minister that she won't do anything about the situation at Ahus. Can she confirm that this is correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e383	I have just said that we take responsibility, we have taken responsibility from day one to build better emergency reception. We're going to make sure that over the four years, the emergency reception will be better, there will be more qualified people. At Ahus there will still be significantly better staffing with qualified people than there are at very many emergency receptions. But it's not exactly the model that they launched last year, because there's been internal disagreement about it providing the basis for getting enough specialist training as part of the education process in the Internal Affairs Department. In fact, I think that is a bit too detailed for the Prime Minister to take into account – whether the course of training for inpatients at Aarhus is going to be good or bad. We're going to take care of the patients, and we're absolutely sure that the model they're making at Ahus is going to mean well-qualified staff in the first line, but unfortunately not quite the model they chose last year, because it turned out not to provide good enough training for other doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e388	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e391	I'm also going to ask a question about enforcement, which in many ways has been the credo of the Prime Minister and the government of her rentals. It's a good ambition, but then one has to be able to be measured on it. In recent years, there have been several examples of the importance of implementing labour policy – in other words, the floodlights. Last week, today’s Business could tell about the situation with Ladengården’s nursing home in Bergen. There have been a number of employers as well as employees on a new rotational scheme, which means they have to add fewer weekends, but they work a little longer at a time. Such rotational arrangements have previously produced good results in the form of several whole settings and more happy users. Now the trade union has centrally lowered its foot. In the newspaper on Monday, we were able to read about the situation at Oslo University Hospital, where one last year saw the need to break the working time destination in the work environment law 32,000 times. ‘I do not want to break Norwegian law, of course, but I have to do so in order to run this business properly.’ That's what the head of the emergency clinic said to the newspaper. The Government Party is talking a lot about amending the Work Environment Act to ensure modernisation and more flexibility. There's an ambition left more than shares. But for so long it has been with the talk. When the red-green government came to power in 2005, it took a 24-day period to change the work environment law. So far, the government of Solberg has spent 134 days doing nothing, at least not as we at Stortinget have. The early selection of working hours is still not set down, and yesterday we were told by the Labour and Social Committee that we can expect exactly zero cases in the next month. My question to the Prime Minister is this: How has the government shown the effectiveness of labour policy so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e411	One of the most important things the government is now working on is the continuation of the IA agreement – which means that we should be in the inclusive working life to ensure that we get more people present at work, more people coming back more quickly, and also that we achieve the objectives of the IA agreement that we have not achieved so well in the past, namely the issue of those who are out of work. In the case of legislative amendments, it is easier to repeal a law than to write a legal text to new laws. But we're also working on the follow-up to the Sundvolden platform on the changes we're going to have. One area I think is important that we should have a good dialogue with the social partners. For many years, when we have just addressed the questions of the tour and the possibility of working in other modes, the answer has been – from the trade unions and from the former government – that this is not a problem, because almost everyone has been approved. What we're seeing now may be an intrusion of a different policy from some of the trade unions. In that case, it would mean that the need to make changes to the law would be greater than if we had been able to get good solutions together with the social partners. My goal is always to get at least conflict by making sure that the social partners are involved in how to interpret it. This means that we will also go round and talk about these things with the social partners, so that we can achieve the best possible implementation with respect to weak groups, for example. those who live in Ladengården hospital, or those with mental challenges living in Biskopshavn, who have deserved to have stability around them and good working arrangements. But I agree that what was said in the paper last week is a second and more conflict-oriented approach to finding good solutions from the users' side. That means that we have to speed up that work if we don't find good solutions with the parties without making changes to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e422	I want to thank the Prime Minister for the progress of an answer. I understand that some questions require thorough communication and dialogue, and that everyone should be involved. But a lot of what we're talking about here is actually not a very big need to figure out. The Prime Minister can simply open the drawer in his desktop marked 'Bondevik II' and find out many of the suggestions she herself made at the time. I'm assuming that what we're doing with a great deal of implementation, we're gathering a wide-ranging number of civilians a short time ago, should be the minimum of what we can get at now. Let me take a couple of open areas where there's a need for relaxation: the rules for the average calculation of working time, the rules for evening and weekend work and the rules for temporary additions. Is any of the reforms that the government will implement before we have 32,000 new offences at our largest hospital and at other workplaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e429	First of all, I want to say that these data for breach of the Working Environment Act show very clearly that the Working Environment Act becomes very square, because quite a few of the breaches we would perceive as marginal, but that still violates the law. That means it's important to do something. The average calculations are among the things we have on the list of things we're going to do something about, and we have temporary employment, which is one of those questions. But I want to say that over the eight years that have gone by since the Bondevik II government, at least the Right's starting point has been that we don't take a blue copy of all the things we did in the Bondevik II government. We are actually creating new policies based on a new working life, and it has therefore not only been to pick up the old proposals from the drawer and promote them for the Stortinget. We're doing a job that will help us actually come up with new, good rules, which we hope can provide the widest possible support for what we're going to take into account – that patients in Norway get the best health care services, and that care users get the best care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e436	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e440	When I hear the exchange of lines between the Prime Minister and the representative Rotevatn from Sogn and Fjordane, I know Ivar Aasen's words are coming to my mind: we think it's going to go so fast with something big, but as soon as something big is achieved, something small will come. I really have a very brief and simple question for the Prime Minister: Will it help the Prime Minister in the progress of her work that the Left promotes these proposals in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e447	I believe that legal work needs legal work. That's what's important about what's happening, and that means that very often when the Storting is promoting legislative proposals without legal work, it's up to the lawyers to do the interpretation room for how to understand this. I believe that in the case of the social partners, it is precisely the legal process, and the understanding and interpretation, a very important part of creating peace around arrangements – and not just the struggle around arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e452	Dag Terje Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e455	We have the Labour Environment Act to ensure the health and safety of those in employment in Norway. Last Thursday, the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work presented a study documenting two important things. Having very precarious working hours affects the health of the employee. But in the context of the main question being asked, it is equally interesting that it leads to more accidents and poorer attention to the job. It is the government's own body, the Institute for Safety and Health at Work, which documents this – that if you work very long shifts, for example. in the health sector, it is more likely that the person who works long shifts gets sick, but not least that those who are being treated get a worse offer because it can be done wrong. Shouldn't the Working Environment Act be strengthened and followed up rather than weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e464	It is very important that the main purpose of the Working Environment Act is to take care of workers and to take care of health, the environment and safety. It should always be. So the question is: some of the experiences gained in this report are transferable to some of the thematic areas that are now being discussed — for example: community tour, where you live and live with patients with mental retardation, who have mental stress and other conditions? You may not be able to transfer it from where, for example. has as an experience base the industry or the oil industry. But that's why there will be a difference, I think, in different workplaces between how good and how much longer it is to be able to have longer working hours and other places of rotation. Sometimes it'll be like living as a normal family -- and we do that 24 hours a day, all of us. Some other places you have high mechanical things that will, of course, require a completely different attention than living a normal, normal family life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e473	Heidi Greni – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e476	The Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of the Government of Norway, who is working for liberalisation in many areas, including in the field of labour. The reply to the representative, Mr Rotevatn, also supports this. In the government platform, it says, among other things: that the government will: ‘Add opportunities for an open working life, inter alia, by extending access to the use of temporary employment so as to make the rules of the private sector more similar to those of the country.’ When the government is in favour of liberalisation also on the labour market, or rather a weakening of employees' rights in favour of employers, it would have been interesting to know whether it should now also apply to professional groups that are currently protected from the pressure of competition from foreign labour, for example. teachers, police, doctors, nurses, etc. Is it the case that the deterioration in working life, such as the right to temporary employment, shall also apply to those occupational groups which until now have been protected from competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e488	I think if the representative goes through her own question, she'll see that it's really black on it. For what is stated in the Health Declaration is that for the private sector, we should be able to move closer to what is happening in the state. The doctors are largely employed in the country, and they have legislation – now they are exempted from a part of the work environment legislation. So it's not the groups that the representative addresses, that will now experience that there might be a little more temporary employees – there are other groups. I think it's interesting to look at the research. It now shows quite clearly, in my view, that groups who have problems getting into the labour market are getting help because there is a little more temporaryity and opportunity for it. However, groups in the public sector, at least in the state, are affected by the Civil Service Act, and the more liberal it is than the Labour Environment Act is. So that's not the groups that are involved in liberalising; it's about those groups where the state is not an employer and where they have the opportunity to have a slightly more liberal use of temporary employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e495	Audun Lighthouse – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e498	It's starting to form an interesting pattern when it comes to the government's way of dealing with crime. In the event of a breach of the reservation-related legislation, the offenders shall meet for the purpose of legitimising the offences and amending the law. When sex is still purchased in Norway, the offences are to be met by the repeal of the law. When the Work Environment Act is broken, the offences shall be met by acceptance and the law amended. There has just been a report showing the link between ill health and precarious working hours. At the same time, we know that health problems are increasing when people have to work too long. What signal will the Prime Minister give to health employers: Is it okay to break the Health and Safety Act, or does the Prime Minister require employers to do something about it – now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e505	I don't think it's okay to break the Work Environment Act, but when we see so many violations of the Work Environment Act, we also have to ask ourselves the question: Why does that happen? Sometimes such pragmatic things happen that whoever is going to take over your guard has a sick child, so you stay standing three hours longer because you can't leave the older ones alone. Then you have actually broken the Working Environment Act. Should you not take into account the elderly? Would you go home not to break the Working Environment Act, or would you stay at work? To be honest, I understand anyone who feels like they're staying at work, because that's the choice you have. Then maybe we can look at the question of how flexible it is, what opportunities they have, how we have average considerations, and in this discussion, I think patients and users also have to be involved. What we know is the trials we're going through in parts of the care sector, and there's less drugs, less doping, better lives. That means a lot to me. I take the greatest responsibility for the weakest in our society. They also need working time arrangements for those to help, who give them a good life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e513	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e516	What has been our most important export industry over a thousand years is fish. In the big picture, the oil age is going to be a small parentheses between that history and the future where fish and seafood again become our most important export industry. So how we manage this eternal gold in the sea, and who owns these resources, are issues of enormous national importance. On Monday I was at a public meeting in Mehamn and had the pleasure of meeting those who started the coastal uprising that is now spreading all over North Norway. On Monday there will be a charter plane full of people from Finnmark who have intended to protest outside the Stortinget, and they set their minds on smoking and on the government. They fear that fish that have been intended for farms along the coast of North Norway will disappear instead on trawlers that give profit to some but give little value to society as a whole. In addition, they have received a signal that the government wants to allow this practice by abandoning what has been a clear policy in Norway, namely that radiation quotas should be linked to specific rural areas and municipalities, so that we are sure that these resources belong to the community and benefit the population along the coast. Who owns the fish? Not a few trawlers, but the whole people of Norway. How do we get the most values out of it? Well, by making sure that it is processed on land in Norway, so that we can create the most possible values here in our own country. Will the Prime Minister turn his back on North Norway by allowing the radiation allowances no longer to be linked to a facility or municipality but to so-called regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e527	I fully agree that fish is an important future industry for Norway, and that Norwegian fisheries have a future, and that Norwegian regions living from fisheries incomes and living from jobs, both at sea and those on land, should have good framework conditions in the years to come. The most basic thing for this to be a future industry is that we make sure that it's profitable at all stages. If there's not any profitability in every term, some term over time will fall away. If it is not profitable, the workplaces will disappear. Then we don't have a future business. Then we've built up our skills. Sometimes you get structural changes to contribute to profitability. When we in the previous civil government contributed to more structuring, it contributed to more profitability in the Norwegian fishing industry, it helped to make it more attractive to be a fisherman, it also helped to ensure the future of Norway and the fishing industry. The challenge for the continental fish industry is a lack of profitability. That cannot be lifted politically. Of course, we can start subsidizing, but I haven't heard any suggestions about that. We cannot give profitability to these jobs; it must be done by the actors themselves. And I see that as one of the measures that Norway Seafoods is trying to take, when they actually have an offensive strategy to develop the facilities in Stamsund, Melvær, Sørvær, Kjøllefjord, Berlevåg and Båtsfjord, but maybe not as much activity elsewhere. But it's to create profitability and create safe jobs. The government is going to be busy following the activity carefully. Thus, there is an obligation to operate at Hammerfest, in Båtsfjord, in Kjøllefjord, in the Great Bay Whitefishing plant in Honningsvåg, but as the department, i.e. fisheries manager, recently stated, there is no obligation to operate at Mehamn, where the uprising started. It does not exist, it is not on the legal basis, nor can the government maintain an activity obligation that did not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e536	Everyone agrees that the objective is a profitable fishing industry, but it is striking that when you visit the different farms, for example: In Mehamn, a number of people are able to run economically. But the message they gave me on Monday was that what they need to make even more money is better access to fish. What we are now at risk is that the fish are removed from the coast because the government allows the trawls to leave farms with more of the fish. Erna Solberg and I have it in common that we love the wonderful town of Bergen, but it must also be said that Bergen has some unfortunate history, some hundred years ago, in terms of exploiting the Nordic fishing resources, and it would be sad if the first Prime Minister from Bergen in a long time would also be the one who dramatically weakens the right of the coastal people to get his share of the values in the sea. That is why I would like to ask again whether the Prime Minister insists that the obligation to deliver fish that has so far been linked to specific facilities and municipalities should no longer be so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e545	The obligations of the companies remain and will apply. What we have done is to do the legal review of what obligations have been in Mehamn, a legal review that the previous government could have done. This case has been quite a long time before a decision was made, or an assessment, related to what the pussy says about it. It was perhaps timely not to do so when you had the power to do so, so not to take on the fact that the kiss says very clearly: there is therefore no legal obligation in Mehamn, nor can the government in retrospect impose obligations that do not exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e550	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Johnny Ingebrichtsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e553	As a fisherman, I am upset at the government's attitude and response when these universal jet allowances are thought to be regionalized, i.e. moved. The moment of demand for economic earnings is just a joke, because I have just been mentioned that there are several other companies that make money – they are actually making good money. This is a privatisation of a natural resource that is reserved for a few, without any requirement to benefit the entire population. Aker Seafoods is about to move its top modern plant in Mehamn and take the allowances with him, and the municipality's inhabitants are left in the quay. The government signals that they will privatize the fish by introducing eternal quotas. Then I wonder: Is the Prime Minister's announcement to the coastal uprising to be outside the Storting on Monday that they should now be deprived of these fishing rights forever?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e564	The President must note that the word 'customs' is not very parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e567	One thing is the future policy, which we are investigating and will come back to. The second question concerns the current situation in Mehamn, and once I have heard the article, I must be allowed to ask a question back, as it might be nice if SV had clarified in this or other areas: Do they think there is a legal obligation in Mehamn, which the state can maintain, or do they not? The legal review carried out by the fisheries authorities, which the previous government could have done but was allowed to do, shows that there is no basis on which the State should impose the obligation of activity in Mehamn, because there is no basis for it in the previous decisions. Has there been, according to SV, a different legal basis to private operators than the one currently developed by the fisheries authorities, or is this just political talk without a legal basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e578	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e581	This is probably another example of government leading a policy when they were in opposition and another in position. I have no doubt that they are the best in the opposition and hope that they will soon fall back there. It is a matter of course that there should be wages in it a drive, but, as it has been pointed out here, there are many others who are able to get pay in this – without radiation allowances. It was a social contract to a special community, where a quota was given against having an activity for values on land. It was supposed to be delivered in one place. Should not others be allowed to do so if it is such that one company is unable to fulfill this contract?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e591	If there had been a contract in Mehamn, it would have been interesting to know, since it has now been decided by the fisheries authorities that there is no obligation to operate in Mehamn within this contract, and that there is no contract of the kind that is now pointed out. The government has not taken a decision. The State apparatus has carried out a legal review of the obligations in respect of Mehamn and the legal review shows that there is no obligation to operate Mehamn. There is an obligation to operate elsewhere in North Norway based on it, for example: the industrial activity of Aker Seafoods Finnmark in Finnmark, at the time this agreement was concluded, but there was no activity in Mehamn at that time. It's a little bit of a dilemma. At the discretion of the fisheries authorities and the legal administration, we do not have a legal basis for action against a private operator.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e602	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e605	I am pleased that the Prime Minister says that fish is an important future industry for Norway. Three weeks ago, the Minister of Industry here in Stortinget's Question Time spoke warmly about value creation in North Norway. We also know that the fisheries and processing industries are one of the most important industries in North Norway — perhaps in some cases also the main basis for jobs in the community. A relaxation of the obligations of the delivery obligations, as the government has called for, may weaken the value creation in North Norway, and may result in job losses. This would be contrary to the desire for increased value creation, which the Minister of Industry was here in Stortinget and talked about. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister see this paradox?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e616	I see that paradox, and I see that there is clearly a need for clear and clear management of the allocation of allowances, and that is going to be, and that will be the focus on how universal service is to be practised in the future. It is not appropriate to move quotas from North Norway to other places, but it is important that we constantly take care that all sectors of the fishing industry have profitability. Creating jobs that can also be jobs outside the main season is quite important in order to achieve this. Local communities and settlements are mainly affected by fixed-term residents working over a long period of the year – not only during a peak season for a short period of time. We have to make sure that the regulations we have in the future do not just help us to put an end to the activity in the future because it is not economically linked to it. That's why the guiding principle for us is: Yes, of course there must be a lot of activity on the fishing side in North Norway, and there must be profitability in this. But in the case of Mehamn, I underline once again that we cannot impose obligations that were not there when the contract was concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e627	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e630	There are two things that are very important for the fishing industry. One is universal service, and the other is profitability. This is an industry that in the years to come will have major needs in terms of technology, quality and innovation. But I'm interpreting the Prime Minister's answer to that, that they can't expect any government intervention in pursuing an industrial policy that can help to develop the technology, innovation and quality needed, because that's what the private actors have to do. One shall not pursue an active and targeted industrial policy by the government vis-à-vis the fishing industry. Otherwise, I cannot interpret the Prime Minister on that point. The supply obligation is also important, and I will give the Prime Minister a very simple challenge, which she did not respond to: the Minister for Fisheries has called for the regionalisation of universal service. It will be very unfortunate and lead to a major decline in the fishing industry. Does the Prime Minister agree that one should regionalise the universal service, or will the government withdraw from such a test balloon?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e641	There is no basis for establishing that we will not contribute to innovation and innovation in the fishing industry. This government has increased the BIA funds, strengthened the TaxFUNN scheme, and we are putting a lot more emphasis on innovation and innovation, which of course also benefit the fishing industry. In addition, profitability is at bottom some of the major basis for doing so. If we also ensure that we do not have to clear up inheritance settlements, as we have done by removing the inheritance tax, it also helps to strengthen the capital situation of the fishing industry. It also contributes to the ability to invest in innovation. We have said in the Sundvolden platform that we still want to maintain universal service, but we want it for regions. Now we're investigating the universal service issue for regions, but that doesn't mean moving it from North Norway. We don't see Norway as a region. It is about ensuring that there is a high level of activity and good profitability in the fishing industry that will be the decisive conditions for how we create the future regulatory system related to this. This will also mean that there is a universal obligation for fish for those who have historically held allowances for supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e650	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e653	Nordmen who drew to Syria show how important it is that our security services are well coordinated. These Northmen are abroad and coming home again, and they are moving from their domain of the E-service to their domain of the PST. It shows that we need a holistic risk assessment. Just because this whole picture is important, last year, for the first time, a common threat assessment was presented, developed by the PST and the E service, with information from the NSM, the National Security Authority. In the big news of preparedness for terrorism, the previous government said that it was just the way one would work in the future: joint analysis and common threat assessments. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection agreed to this. One such joint analysis was also the whole point of establishing a new counter-terrorist centre, the rental of PST, but also involving E-service staff. Then the analysis is more holistic, well-worked and better coordinated. The Prime Minister himself has repeatedly said that she wants better coordination and coordination in the field of security and preparedness. But earlier this week, the E-service presented its threat assessment without PST or NSM being involved. So the previous government is taking care of coordination, the terrorist preparedness message confirms the need for coordination, the Stortinget would have coordination, and then my question is: Why has the Prime Minister not ensured that the threat assessments are coordinated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e666	We will coordinate threat assessments in those areas of common importance. The e-service threat assessment, which I thought was incredibly interesting reading, contains large analyses of areas that are far from the need for coordination between the different levels of activity, for example. in Norway. The analysis they have linked, among other things: to development in Asia is not directly relevant, but it is important in relation to our intelligence policy, and it is important in relation to our foreign policy in the years to come. Many of the issues that are not related to jihadists and others, it's actually quite important that we get ahead, and they don't need to coordinate. We want a well-coordinated threat picture between these, and we're working on it. As far as the issue of return jihadists is concerned, perhaps the most important thing we do is to improve prevention. What the government is doing is getting a new action plan attached to it, based on an analysis that said that the previous action plan was very good, but that it was poor at concrete measures on the prevention side. That's why we're working a lot on questions about how to manage mobilising the community's resources and creating systems so that it doesn't have to be the way it is today. Today, the PST says they're largely the first line, and they're already hitting radicalized youths who are on their way out, on their way to move elsewhere. We're working on measures that help us meet these young people, turn them around, and change it at an earlier date.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e673	I thank you for the reflections on the handling of returning jihadists, but that's not what I asked for. I also agree with the Prime Minister that the threat assessment from the E-service is interesting, but that was not what I asked for either. What I asked for was why the threat assessment that was now being presented is not coordinated and coordinated with the PST and with the NSM as it was provided in the Terrorist Emergency Notice, and as it was provided by the Stortinget. First of all, a common assessment of terrorism, a threat assessment, does not prevent individual services from also making assessments beyond that, linked to the particular circumstances for which they are responsible – building it up, nuances it. But what you need is first the coordinated, co-ordinated threat assessment, that one has a holistic risk picture. When you have the holistic risk picture, you can also work from there. That is why my question remains: why has the Prime Minister not ensured that the threat assessment presented was coordinated?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e681	I understand that this is a question of whether individual threat assessments should have come after a common threat assessment, or – as it was now – that some of them come before a common assessment. I don't think that's the most crucial thing. I think the most crucial question is that we actually coordinate threat assessments in those areas where there are, in fact, common threats to our country. Each of these services will have large areas that are not in intersection with the others, and which are important that we also highlight. That's what I think has been a good part of what the intelligence has done now. In the government's work, we are very busy coordinating it, and therefore we are constantly working to put together the different images for a joint assessment. It must not be a shadow for those areas that are not part of the common area – large, important areas, also in our preparedness – but that do not require coordination between the three E-services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e686	There will be two follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e689	It's always hard to get agencies to work together, and that's why it was important for the previous government to make a big deal, to which the Stortinge agreed unanimously, that we should have a common threat assessment. Now there's no common threat assessment that we've been told about. My first question is, When does a common threat assessment come? The last time we had a common threat assessment, the Stortinget was informed in advance. Now it is the case that the E-service comes with a threat assessment on Monday. The PST threat assessment is – as I understand it – just around the corner. My other question is: why does the government not want to inform the Storting about this before they go out with it to the public, and why does the government not inform the Stortinget that it has gone away from setting up a common threat assessment initially?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e700	If it is a wish from Stortinget to have a review of the PST assessment, I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Justice will do so thoroughly before it is published. The normal review that we've had in Stortinget in the past has also contained things that are not part of the public part, and it's come almost simultaneously with the public part. It's been necessary. It was part of what was changed in Stortingen's Rules of Procedure in the previous period, when we were able to do so so that the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence also became a committee that could receive secret information relating to, for example, The work of the PST and act as more of a Security Committee. We've been busy getting these reports out quickly, but we're going to make sure that the Storting is informed if that's what's wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e705	Social violence Vedum – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e708	Former parliamentary leader Siv Jensen was a very active spokeswoman in order for us to have our own safety committee at Stortinget. It was because the terror picture was more complex, events outside affected events at home to a much greater extent, the e-services had to be coordinated better, we in Stortinget had to have better information about what was the threat picture, and we had to have better control over how the e-services actually worked. It is therefore very surprising, when the Advance Party and the Right come into government, that they choose to involve the Storting less and not inform in advance, and that the necessary coordination between the various E-services is not ensured. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e715	The three different services are well coordinated. They cooperate well. The analytical work works well on the common impact point in the safety and preparedness work. They do, and they report to the government about it. So they have analytical work that's much larger than the common intersections. Then you have chosen to go out with it – the width – instead of what is purely coordinated. The size shall be informed. It's traditionally so that the Storting gets more information than what's being spent on the public. It was a very clear claim from the previous opposition that it was not necessary to be informed just about what was in the public bit, because we were able to read. The size should be informed of more than what is being spent on the public sector, for the size should also be aware of several of the difficult challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e722	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e739	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Helga Pedersen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation as the right person. Question 15, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Industry, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation as the right person. At the request of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, this question is moved and answered in response to question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 16, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been removed. Question 17, from the representative Ruth Mari Grung to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 4. Question 22, from the representative of Stine Renate Håheim to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, is moved and answered before question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e760	This question, from the representative of Helga Pedersen to the Prime Minister, has been transferred to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation who is directing the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e763	‘The Solberg government’s political platform states: ‘The government will facilitate growth throughout Norway’. Work places in the Directorate for Economic Management are centralised. The tax cuts mainly benefit residents in a limited geographical area. The work on travel life was cut in Innovation in Norway. How will the Prime Minister take responsibility for facilitating growth throughout Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e770	As correctly pointed out in the question, the government will facilitate growth throughout Norway. The government will increase the competitiveness of business throughout the country so that we create more jobs and secure the welfare society of the future. The red-green government had a historic economic space, but it did not use it to strengthen its competitiveness. Growth across the country requires good framework conditions for innovation and local business. Therefore, the government will implement a policy in which we invest more in knowledge, research, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. We are doing this well and have already taken important steps in the 2014 budget. Strengthened competitiveness requires that we work smarter, better facilitate growth. That is why, in the 2014 budget, we strengthened both the SkattenFUNN scheme and the User-Controlled Innovation Arena. We prioritised infrastructure with around 1.7 billion. kr more for road and rail and 280 mill. kr more for county roads. Better road and rail links the country more closely, links businesses closer to customers and suppliers and makes it possible to create profitable jobs throughout the country. I would like to thank the representative Helga Pedersen for bringing forward the government's cut in the wealth tax. In order to ensure growth throughout the country and a competitive business life, the reduction of the strange wealth tax is important. Although enterprises are registered in one part of the country, jobs are created across the country. Many of the growth industries create their jobs in District Norway, and therefore competitive business is the way we can best ensure growth throughout Norway. Growth throughout the country is important to the government. That is why we are now working to continue instruments such as differentiated employer fees and investment aid in large parts of the country. That is why in 2014 we prioritise over 1 billion. kr in regional development funds and focus them on enterprise-oriented measures. But we cannot measure success in our work in the number of dollars allocated to one chapter and one item in the state budget – it gets too narrow. Success must be measured by our success in creating competitive business and ensuring good jobs and living communities throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e787	Firstly, I do not think the reality description of what has happened in recent years is correct. The previous government invested in competitiveness across the country. More than 300,000 new jobs were created, most of them in the private sector. As a result, the population is increasing in a majority of Norwegian municipalities, even in northern Norway it is population growth, not least in my own country, Finnmark. If we're going to have growth across the country, investing in profitable jobs is very important. But the government's bet goes in the opposite direction. We see that a cut in the property tax gives a three-part gain in Oslo equivalent to ten counties in District Norway. At the same time, regional development funds, travel life initiatives, innovation in the fishing industry and permitting legislation are cut. How can the Minister of Municipal Affairs defend the fact that this development will stimulate growth outside the major urban areas as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e794	Let me just first say that in terms of the reality of the last period of government, it is actually such that competitiveness was weakened. It is one of the major challenges we now face, that productivity growth fell and cost competitiveness deteriorated. Therefore, the main priority of the government is to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. It is absolutely essential that we have profitable jobs across Norway. And again, I notice that the representative Helga Pedersen is addressing a very small part of the framework conditions for Norwegian business. Obviously, businesses all over the country are enjoying the fact that we are reducing taxes on wealth. It increases private investment capital, which benefits the whole country. When we've invested over 2 billion. more in infrastructure than the previous government did, and strengthened investment in rural roads, it benefits the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e801	That's how the cut in the property tax benefits a small part of the country. When given as much asset tax cuts in three parts of Oslo as in ten districts, it is very difficult to explain how it can produce growth in Northern Norway, inland, in Buskerud, etc., while the government is so targeted at attacking active business policies. The previous question in the Questionnaire was about innovation and profitability in the fishing industry. The government has cut the marine value creation programme and the whitefish package, which was promoted by our government just to meet the challenges of the fishing industry. Active enterprise policy has proved to be very successful in ensuring population growth, enterprises and jobs across the country. Here we see that the new government has made a change of direction, and my question is therefore still: what will the new government actively do to promote growth in the districts as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e808	Now it's not like you cut the property tax in some parts of Oslo. One cuts in the property tax to increase private investment capital, and if there is a need for Norwegian companies, there is more private investment capital. That is why we are going to continue to cut taxes on wealth, because it is important for Norwegian private jobs throughout the country. When we first come up with a cut, let me remind you that the previous government cut off the compensation for an increased employer's fee, which is targeted at North Norway, for three consecutive years. Why doesn't the representative Helga Pedersen mention it? No, because Helga Pedersen might be concerned that the previous government prioritised something else? Yeah, that's the same thing as this government does. We have reduced something in the county and regional development funds, but then we have invested in county roads – it benefits District Norway, it benefits North Norway. We have an active industrial policy to strengthen jobs, and we need to strengthen competitiveness where the previous government weakened it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e819	‘The reduction or elimination of taxes on wealth is different for cities and districts. An estimate from 2010 shows that the districts of Ullern, Vestre Aker and Frogner in Oslo will receive twice as much tax relief as Hedmark, Uppland and Buskerud combined by removing the property tax. In addition, there will be less money to distribute the State budget to, among others. district measures. Is this a fair and good policy for creating growth in the districts?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e826	There is a broad political consensus that the tax system should contribute to equalising the income of the population. That is also the policy of this government. However, it is excessive to claim that a reduction in taxes on wealth will give dramatic results in income differences in Norway. A reduction in taxes on wealth will not rock Norway’s position internationally as a society with small differences. For example, the reduction in the wealth tax adopted by the Storting for the current year will have only a marginal impact on the Gini coefficient, which is a very widely used measure of income inequality. Although the tax system and the wealth tax contribute to redistribution, other factors are more important to balance differences in living conditions. Quite a small pre-tax pay gap, a publicly funded education system, good health and care services and good social transfers in unemployment, sickness, disability and old age are more important for low differences than the tax system. It also shows the 2009 Distribution Committee report, which was otherwise a report ordered by the Red-Green Government. I would also like to point out that the relationship between tax and distribution was described in a budget proposal from the previous government – it stands for being perfectly precise on pages 61 to 62 of Prop. 1 LS for 2013–2014. The Government considers that the main contribution of the tax system is to ensure efficient and robust funding of welfare schemes and public services. This government attaches great importance to the establishment of the tax system in order to provide income effectively and with the least possible adverse effects on the economy. The short-term re-allocation of the tax system must be balanced against the efficient use of resources and good framework conditions for industrial activities. By better facilitating value creation and work, we also guarantee the basis for tax revenue and financing of long-term well-being. This government believes it is important to give priority to growth-enhancing tax incentives. That is why we proposed broad tax relief in the 2014 budget, both in income and wealth taxes, which strengthened incentives for saving, investment and working. In the wealth tax, the rate was reduced and the deduction increased, in line with the Sundvolden declaration. The wealth tax has several unfortunate aspects. A relatively high rate and misappropriation of various property items contributes to a reduction in Norwegian capital availability for investments in Norway. It can weaken Norwegian ownership, and it can help to ensure that the capital of Norwegian owners is not used where it throws the most of it for society. Therefore, it is an objective of this government to reduce taxes on wealth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e839	My question was: is it fair to set up such a large and general instrument as it would be to cut the wealth tax altogether – and as the government talks about it as a very important tool – when it has such a lopsided side to the districts? That is the question, and whether or not some compensatory measure is needed at least. Hedmark, where I come from, pays 240 million today. kr in property taxes, while we know that the parts in question in Oslo pay ten times more. That's how we get a sense that this is money that -- or the benefits of removing the property tax that we're talking about, whether it's like that -- doesn't exactly end up with us. This concern is even more relevant when we see that the cuts in the taxes on wealth are being financed by taking very important measures in the districts, for example. the significant cut in regional development funds, cut in wood-based innovation and in a number of other items, from which we have actually managed to generate growth in districts. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e848	Firstly, this government strengthens value creation across the country by setting up instruments different from the previous government. It's about investing more in infrastructure. It's about investing more in research and education. It is about focusing more on growth-enhancing tax incentives, to mention three important measures. It is a positive error when the representative claims that the property tax is paid by municipalities or by urban units in Oslo. The property tax is paid by persons, by managers, by company owners who own companies and thus employ thousands of people around the country. When we reduce taxes on wealth, it means that we strengthen the basis for solid, robust jobs around the country. I think that when we are going to discuss taxes on wealth, it should at least be based on a certain factual basis, on how it works. It may also be appropriate to take into account the fact that the owners themselves believe that this will be an important contribution to strengthening employment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e857	In our number examples, we've mentioned these districts, and we're referring to the counties. But we are fully aware of who is the taxpayer in the right sense of the word in terms of property taxes. The whole question is that you want clarification from the Minister of Finance: does she understand the need to take measures other than to facilitate/remove the full taxes on wealth? We see that many of the taxpayers who get this big tax advantage live in urban areas. I believe that this is a problem that the Minister of Finance must also take seriously, so as to avoid becoming a factor further contributing to centralisation, and which further contributes to making it more difficult to create growth and growth in rural areas, which need it more than ever. to benefit from industries that will be important for new growth in a new era.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e864	The problem with the question is that it is difficult to answer, simply because the whole point of reducing taxes on wealth is to remove an unnecessary burden on Norwegian capital, which, by reducing taxes on wealth, we can ensure is channelled into important projects, businesses, profitable jobs, around the country. Therefore, I think it is strange that the representative of Storberget believes that we should provide compensatory measures when we remove a burden that is perceived as a challenge in terms of making new investments and strengthening the basis for even more good jobs around the country. What I agree with the representative of Storberget is that it is important to do other things as well. This is done by strengthening investment in transport, by strengthening investment in research and development, and by providing growth-enhancing tax incentives that have a good impact on saving and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e877	‘Government removed 430 million. kr to regional development of the State budget for 2014. This will go beyond many innovation and development projects across the country, and there is little doubt that this is anti-diversity policy. In what way does the Council of State think of a cut of 430 million? kr for 2014 has promoted business development and innovation across the country?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e884	The promotion of business development and innovation across the country requires efforts through more sectors and instruments. The use of regional development funds is part of an overall strategy for growth across the country. The government will focus on knowledge and increased competitiveness for business. We will strengthen road construction, research and framework conditions for businesses in order to maintain jobs and strengthen growth across Norway. A business that is able to take care of and create new and profitable jobs is the most important thing to ensure growth-oriented regions. Good infrastructure is a key framework condition for a competitive business. It contributes to the interconnection of housing and labour markets and to more reliable and fair transport for business. So the government re-prioritised 250 million. kr from the regional funds for upgrading the county roads. The total effort to upgrade the county roads in 2014 is 780 million. kr. In addition, we have increased the appropriations for new investments, operation and maintenance of highways by a total of 1.1 billion. kr in addition to the budget of the Stoltenberg II Government. This is important for the whole country — but especially for jobs and businesses in the districts. The government has also increased the appropriations for research and, in particular, for research related to nutrition. This is important in order to ensure the renewal and transformation of economic and social life throughout the country. In Norway we cannot be the cheapest – so we must be the smartest. It is essential to ensure growth across the country — and the welfare society of the future. The government will actively use the tax system to improve conditions for Norwegian business. We're reducing total taxes and taxes by a total of 7.3 billion. kr in 2014. We prioritise relief that will make the Norwegian economy more growth-intensive, and that helps make it more profitable to invest and work. In addition, we are doing the simplification work well. We need to remove time thieves, including by simplifying legislation and increasing the digitisation of public services. This will bring great pleasure to business. We have started work on making planning and building laws easier to deal with, both for residents and for businesses. We work, among other things: in order to improve interaction and early clarification between different bodies involved in the planning and construction process will reduce the number of objections. Local business interests can thus be clarified more quickly and start creating tomorrow's business. Finally, I would like to stress that in 2014 it is still granted almost 1.2 billion. kr in regional development funds, after the majority of the population supported the government's proposal to re-prioritise some of the funds to invest in roads. We emphasise that county councils should focus their efforts on innovation and start-ups. Priority shall be given to the means of direct enterprise-oriented actions. We trust that the county councils will focus on best-performing instruments that best support regional business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e899	The municipalities of Marker, Aremark and Rømskog in Østfold get cut 1 million. kr in regional development money. As a result, the focus on the development of local small businesses, travel and interreg cooperation with Sweden is now being drastically cut or completely removed. We are told the same developments also from other counties and municipalities, from north to south in the country. Does the Council still believe that the cuts in regional development funds promote local economic development?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e904	Had I not known better, I would have thought that the representative had learned from the Helga Pedersen sword campaign, because this will be completely wrong – it will be completely wrong. What we have done is re-prioritising funds, which we believe will strengthen Norwegian businesses, which will strengthen regional business. We prioritised investment in infrastructure by nearly 2 billion. kr over the budget of the Stoltenberg II Government. We cut taxes on work and Norwegian jobs. We invest more in county roads, more in research and development. Then it becomes too narrow just to grab a tiny part of the state budget. The representative may be able to respond to the cuts made by the previous government as compensation for an increased employer’s fee, which targeted Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. Why doesn't the Labour Party mention it, when you're so concerned about the appropriations on each chapter and each item on the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e913	Innovation Norway answers the question about these funds and cut them. They say they're triggering corporate and socially profitable projects that wouldn't otherwise be realized. Projects are aimed at documenting increased value creation, and district funds have had a very good impact on, among others. competence and export development of rural holdings. Innovation Norway also states, on questions, that these funds contribute to triggering significant funds from private sources, which was discussed by the Minister of Local Affairs in the previous round of questions. Then I ask again: does the Council of State still think it is smart to cut so much in regional development funds? Will the Council of State now work to at least get the pot up to what was originally proposed in the State budget for 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e920	I understand that the representatives of the Workers' Party want everything to be as it was under the Stoltenberg II government. It's not going to be. We have a different growth policy across Norway, where we are just facilitating investment in Norwegian private jobs by cutting taxes on work and investment, by investing more in infrastructure and district roads and by investing more in research and development. I spend a lot of time traveling all over Norway, and when I talk to Norwegian companies, they're just concerned about infrastructure, growth-promoting tax relief, investment in research and development. This government delivers what companies will have to have the best framework conditions to create new jobs, and that's what we're going to be measured on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e925	Then we go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e932	‘In West Agder, the creation of the Node and Eide cluster programmes has been a success. The county has used a large proportion of its regional development funds for the development of these clusters. The size has now decided to focus on an extension of cluster programmes with a new level, but the 2014 budget cut the appropriations for regional development funds drastically. Does the Council of State see that cuts in regional development funds can be devastating for the development of innovation in the business clusters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e939	Innovation, knowledge and technology are necessary areas of activity to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness. A key element in this again is clusters as a driving force for innovation. The government has launched a new, reinforced cluster development initiative in 2014, a comprehensive cluster development programme that includes the current Arena and Norwegian Centres of Expertise programmes, as well as a new offer to the very strongest and internationally leading clusters, the Global Centres of Expertise. The government has increased the allocation of the cluster bet by 30 million. kr in 2014 compared to 2013. This means that Innovation Norway in 2014 has a total of 127 million. kr to support good cluster projects across the country, through the new cluster programme. This provides a good offer for everything from early stage clusters to mature clusters with strong international competitiveness. The new cluster programme does not require co-financing from county municipalities. This means that no cluster projects participating in or wishing to participate in the cluster programme must have regional co-financing. The government will strengthen the competitiveness of the country as a whole and increase the pace of innovation. That is why, in the 2014 budget, we have also strengthened the SkattenFUNN scheme and the User-Controlled Innovation Arena programme. Norwegian business can't be the cheapest, but we can be the smartest. The government's strengthened commitment to innovation and cluster development in 2014 will strengthen innovation capacity across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e952	In the budget proposal of the Stoltenberg government, we received 42.4 million in West Agder. kr in regional development funds. The Solberg government cut these by 10-12 million. kr. From the budget of the Stoltenberg government, West Agder had set aside 11 million. kr for the development project and for the cluster programme. These means have over time been a good birth aid to develop the successful clusters in South Africa. Doesn't the council see that as drastic cut as 10-12 million. For West Agder, does a more business-neutral policy also lead to in the districts, which one then feels hard hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e959	The answer to that question is no. I was in South Africa just two weeks ago. What was requested there was better roads. This government is investing almost 2 billion. kr more in infrastructure in 2014 than the Stoltenberg II Government had planned to add. We are strengthening the appropriations for county roads. Yes, it is true that West-Agder is receiving somewhat less funding for county and regional development funds, but at the same time it is receiving increased appropriations for county roads. That's also what the business community is asking for. In addition, the government has increased the national cluster bet by 30 million. kr. Why doesn't the representative mention it? Should it not be that, as politicians, we also have a complete picture in our production and not just take one piece of the picture, but actually have some recognition that the government has an increased stake in clusters?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e964	With regard to the proposal of 30 million. kr to the clusters, it was a proposal from the government of Stoltenberg. But the councils were in on this with the clusters and new clusters. The Governmental Platform of the Right-Fremskritspart-government has the following objectives: ‘Use the clusters as a driving force for innovation, especially by investing in the Norwegian Centres of Expertise’ [[...]] Nor does the Council of State see that they weaken their own objective by giving with one hand and taking with the other when they cut as extensive in the regional development funds as in West Agder, where these have been used, among others. on the food clusters?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e976	Now I believe I have answered that question. It is also the case that West-Agder states will still have – according to the representative – more than 30 million. kr. If it is that the county wants to give priority to clustering in West Agder, they can of course do it. I believe in local self-government, and I believe that both local and county politicians are making wise efforts. It is absolutely right that we have reduced the resources of county and regional development funds. We're fully aware of that, because we've given priority to something else, we've given priority to highways. But it is also true that this government has increased its efforts at national level in the cluster programme, and we want to bet on it more strongly in the years to come, precisely because I fully agree with the representative that clustering is important for innovation and growth in the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e983	Then we go to question 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e990	‘Voss hospital is a local hospital for Inner Hordaland with an important emergency response function, considering all the accidents on E16, the fires in Lærdal, the Gudvanga tunnel, Hallingskied and alpine and extreme sports activity. In order to maintain emergency preparedness, the hospital is dependent on an agreement for patients from Bergen. Does the Council not see that freedom of establishment will strengthen the provision of health in cities at the expense of local hospitals, and that this will go beyond the emergency preparedness of local hospitals such as Voss Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e997	There are too many patients waiting for treatment in the specialist healthcare service, and they wait too long. At the same time, we know that there is free capacity for private and non-profit actors. The government will therefore take advantage of all the good forces and let go of those who want to contribute. Therefore, we will introduce free treatment choices into the specialist healthcare service. It should first take place in the field of drug treatment and mental health protection. Patients with a right to treatment should be offered treatment and should not wait unnecessarily long, preferably by means of private providers. However, public hospitals shall continue to be the bearer of public health services. They treat all acute patients and therefore also account for the majority of not only treatment but also research efforts and education in the sector. The previous government sent a proposal to abolish the approval system for private hospitals at the hearing. This would involve what the questioner is asking about, a free right of establishment and the possibility of establishing hospital services without authorisation. It is not the policy of this government. We're keeping today's approval system. At the same time, we are working on further developing and improving the approval system for the future. Freedom of establishment is not the policy of this government. That was the policy of the previous government. As far as the hospital at Voss is concerned, according to the Health West, it is among the most robust local hospitals in the West. Voss Hospital is a well-run and good local hospital, which is attractive to work with. Much has been invested in the functional positioning of elective tasks and infrastructure to improve recruitability. Health Bergen has clearly stated that Voss Hospital will remain a sustainable local hospital with emergency functions. The government believes that increased competition through the establishment of free treatment will stimulate public hospitals to provide better services. The Ministry is now preparing for the introduction of free treatment options. Proposals for legislative changes will be sent to the hearing this year, and my ambition is to introduce free treatment choices in drug treatment and mental health protection in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1010	The question went to Voss Hospital, which today has a patient base of 30,000. Actually, they should have had 50,000 to have the emergency response they have today. So when it's described as robust, it's because they have an agreement with Health Bergen about the exchange of patients, which allows them to maintain the activity. The second question, which was implicit in the main question, is when you set up a free establishment. Does this not mean that both specialists, resources and treatment services are increasing in cities at the expense of districts? There are two things here: one is that this agreement on the exchange of patients can be maintained, and the other is the question: does the Minister not see that this will increase the offer in cities at the expense of the districts and thus reduce emergency preparedness in Voss hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1019	I just have to repeat: the bill to abolish an authorisation scheme for private hospitals, which was sent out at the hearing of the previous government, I have withdrawn. It is not appropriate to abolish the approval system. Therefore, there will be no freedom of establishment. We have maintained the authorisation system, and we are going to further develop and strengthen the authorisation system, so that it is also more robust to meet the health needs of the future. As regards the agreement with Health Bergen on the care of Voss hospital, there is no reason to believe that it is in any way threatened. Voss Hospital is a robust and good hospital, which is not least attractive to patients because they often offer good, planned treatment within short waiting times. So there's no reason, as I see it, to fear the future of Voss hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1026	But it actually does the inhabitants of Voss, Kvam and Indre Hordaland, because they see how vulnerable Voss hospitals are. The last time I was there, the employees did too. The minister has said that they want to open up opportunities within psychiatry. I've also visited Bjørkeli District Psychiatric Centre, and there's the goal of facilitating specialist health services linked to everyday life for people where they live, where they have work and where they have their social networks. There we need psychiatrists, especially in child psychiatry. It's exactly the same problem, but even more vulnerable, because there's even greater shortage of skilled labour. Does the Minister not see that when he starts with freer opportunities for establishment within psychiatry and greater choice, it will also drain resources from the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1033	Too many people with mental health challenges are waiting too long for help. In that waiting period, many people get sicker. Therefore, it is this government’s policy to grant these patients extended patient rights in such a way that if they have been assessed as eligible for specialist healthcare treatment, they should also have the option of selecting authorised private offerings. We believe that there are too long waiting times in several areas, and want to use the available capacity that is available to private people to reduce the waiting times. Then we have a common challenge to make sure that we have enough health professionals in Norway to meet the disease development that is in the population. It is an important and important public task, and one of the themes that also include: will be affected in a new health and hospital plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1042	Then we go back to question number. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1049	‘In Vestfold, one is about to conclude a draft selection investigation for future transport solutions in the Tønsberg region. The progress party in Tønsberg requires 75 pst. State funding, but the Nøtterøy Progress Party does not want to receive tolls for this expansion. In the past, the Council of State has given signals that state funds for county roads are not to be expected. What forms of funding have been available, and how do the Councils address the local Progress Party solutions to the challenge in Westfold?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1056	In many places around the country, important work is being done to improve local infrastructure. There are many places where there is a development in passenger transport that far exceeds the transport network that you have around you. This applies to road transport services by bus, etc., but also to rail transport services The specific case in Westfold has not yet been dealt with by the government. It would be pointless for me, as Minister of Transport, to begin to dictate what my local party communities in Norway are going to think about a matter when they have it in hand and to give hearing opinions and input to the government before the decision is taken. I'm not going to go into that debate. I just want to say that there are no highways in the Tønsberg region beyond the E18. The development of the county road network is the responsibility of the county municipality. The county councils have been given responsibility through the administrative reform of a number of former highways which were not necessarily in very good condition and which means that there is a lot of money going out of county budgets to try to take back a maintenance seat. The increase in funding received in this respect has not been good enough to maintain quality. One of the first things this government did was to increase the appropriations for county councils so that they could better maintain their local road network. We increased it by 280 million. kr – it is over 50 pst. increase compared to the growth of red-green. In addition, we chose to continue an interest-rate compensation scheme, which allows municipalities to borrow around 2 billion. kr free of interest in order to develop their county roads. It was a scheme that the previous government wanted to lay down. So in sum, this government makes it easier for county and city municipalities to meet transport challenges. This does not mean that the economy always merges, and therefore there are various discussions about how to finance this beyond the money available to the county. I do not think it is right for me to go into such local processes when we have chosen to have a system where matters go out to the municipalities at the hearing, then we also have to accept the hearing opinions before we politically deal with them in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1069	I thank you for the answer, which was not really unexpected. And I note with interest the local Progress Party-people who say bastant no tolls, but are for bridge money, and a little for tolls only the state takes its share. However, this is a county project, to be approved by the Ministry and the Stortinget. The county council sees no other funding options than tolls. That's why it's crucial for the county council to know what the council thinks about this kind of funding, and whether toll financing is relevant in a project like this that we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1074	The government platform is very clear on this, so if a county council wants to know what the government is thinking, it's just reading in it. It says we're going to spend more money on investing in the way. There will be tolls, but the toll part will be reduced compared to the level the red-green government provided. That means you get more way and less tolls. It is a policy that is not ideal from the point of view of the Progress Party, but it is far better than the policy that it would have had if the Progress Party had been in opposition. It also means that the Progress Party and the Right, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, are pursuing a more offensive transport policy than we have seen before, while at the same time the tax burden on the drivers is lower than it would otherwise be. It is, as I said, not normal for a state council to go in and negotiate with a county council when a case is in a KVU, KS1 and KS2 process. Then it's the municipalities that do the job, and then it comes back to political treatment in government. But it shouldn't be any news to people that the Progress Party is initially very critical of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1081	Since the Council of State now clarifies that the Progress Party is not really for tolls, the road system in Tønsberg, including mainland connection to Nøtterøy, also goes under the government platform. Then I hope that he will now talk to his party traps in Tønsberg and Nøtterøy – and Vestfold – so that we do not have to have another political discussion and bulwark in this important matter, that we can move on. The government platform is fixed, which means that tolls are also applicable for Vestfold – and Tønsberg. If you call it toll or bridge money, it'll probably be the exact same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1086	I would warn against government members trying to suffocate local political debate around the country. If the Workers' Party wishes to finance several roads and increase toll levels, as they did in the government, it is a choice that the Party may make. I am very pleased that the FrPs locally take care of the party's point of view, just as the Right respects its party's point of view. So you're going to make a good deal of compromise to make things happen. But there must also be a few permission to promote their point of view in different matters. I honestly believe that the representative here would have been very offended if I had gone and asked the Workers' Party not to promote the point of view of a matter just because it didn't fit what was on the government platform. Here we must ensure that local democracy flourishes and that one reaches the compromises that one stands behind. Then, after all, the Storting finally makes the decision. I noticed that the Workers' Party has been very critical when the government has promoted the removal of tolls in some projects. It is obvious that the Workers' Party wants more use of tolls. I disagree with that, but it goes in the right direction like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1099	‘Assuming a national transport plan, there is a good balance between centre and district. [[NTP]] NTP is based on a differentiated transport policy that takes into account the different transport needs in different parts of the country. Governments have stated that the government wants to over-fill the red-green NTP and that all extra money will be spent where the needs are greatest, in the press areas. How will the government ensure that the good balance between the centre and the district is maintained when all extra money is to be spent in the press areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1106	I am very happy that I again get the chance to stress that this government will work to increase the investment in infrastructure and transport. We've already granted more than 2 billion. kr more for road and rail purposes than provided by the previous government. We've started reforming to set up a road investment company, we've set up an infrastructure fund to provide more earmarking of money for maintenance, we're working on earmarking some of the car-related road charges, we're doing a rail reform, we're looking at freight terminals to make it more attractive to send goods by rail into cities, and we're going on with a national port strategy to get a better bet on short sea shipping. All of this in total means that we get a more offensive bet, not only in dollars and dollars, but also by making more effective use of the money that is granted. I think seeing that whole thing is important, and that's exactly why one of the very first things we did was to transfer responsibility for the ports from the Department of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to the Ministry of Transport. This means that for the first time in a long time, all the different parts of the infrastructure around the same table now sit when we discuss strategy, instead of shipping being on the outside and being almost informed afterwards about what is happening. So it's true that we've said that we're going to overfill the NTP. I am very pleased that it is engaging, because after this government joined, there have been a lot of questions in this room from red-green representatives who are not satisfied with what the red-green government delivered in the NTP, but who want a stronger bet on the Kongswingerbahn, on the Gjøvik Railway, and on the four-field highways where there were two fields planned. It shows a good commitment. What is not quite correct in the question is that I should have said that all extra efforts should only be assessed in press areas. What I've said is that we have more purposes to fulfill. One is to make commuting better. That means that the journey one takes 200 times a year, we have to go better. It's more important than spending a lot of money on the trip you like to take once a year. This means that the gateways to towns and cities need to be improved. The second thing we've said is that the inter-urban trajectory is important, because it's about getting better living and working regions, and it's about getting more freight transport easier. That means motorway, but it's also about railway. Then I think we're taking care of both the district profile and the city profile, because when you build a better E6, a better E18 and a better E39, it's not just about going into Oslo, but it's about going along the whole coast, going all over the country, and making improvements. We see, when we talk to local business in a lot of places, that getting their goods faster on the E6, sometimes is as important as fixing a little know-how job locally. We have to look at the interests of the country in a whole. I believe that we still maintain a good balance between the city and the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1126	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is not the representative's intention in any way to add opinions to the Council of State he has not had, but the last at the Norwegian Conference of Governments stated that one would overfulfill the red-green NTP, invest this increase in the most profitable highways, and that is, roads in the most populous areas. Then the Council of State got an opportunity to elaborate on it, and I think he took a good look at it. In the previous four-year period, 6.6 billion were used. kr on road projects in North Norway. With adopted NTP, the red-green, as the Council of State thinks is so good that he wants to be measured on it, this will double to 15 billion. kr, but the council has even more money. My follow-up question is: will the Council of State continue to give priority to increasing the appropriations allocated to the northern part of the country, or will it continue to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1135	I have the ambition that, in 2017, when we are going to prepare accounts for what this government has done, one will see that the appropriations are also higher in North Norway than the underlying ones. I want to show that we have already made sure that the road is built in Finnmark, without one at the same time increasing the taxes accordingly. Making E6 outside of Alta bomb-free means saving local drivers for about half a billion dollars in extra taxes to finance a road that initially costs $300 million. to build. I think that also strengthens local business and local labour market. One of the things I experience when we travel around is that people say that toll stations prevent the development of community, because you set up barriers. Then it is important to also look at aviation structure, look at railway operations – there is Narvik very important – and that one looks at shipping, so that all of this comes together. You should not just look at the construction of the road alone, but how this total plays out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1142	Governments are responding well, and people in the north are likely to wait for increased roadways beyond what NTP promises them. Now it is also the case that the Council of State has announced major reforms in the transport sector, and the Council of State has listed several of them in its response. At the NHO Transport and Logistics Conference in autumn, State Secretary Bård Hoksrud stated that the announced investment company by road would not be able to carry out all road projects and pointed specifically to the projects in the districts. Can the Council of State say something first about the intention to involve the Stortinget in these reforms, and why – as State Secretary Hoksrud said – there will be a need for more implementation strategies in order to build a road across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1149	As far as the reforms are concerned, it is natural that this is discussed in detail in the revised budget. Something might come up on its own, for example. we think we should be able to promote a los reform as a matter of our own before the summer, but because there are some details that remain, we have to come back to exactly when that happens. For example: This road company, I think it will be one of the big and important things that remain after this government, because it is about getting a completely different way of planning, building and financing roads. We spend ten years today planning new roads, we build them piece by piece and divided. The vast majority of operators in the industry – including people in the Road Service – say that it means that they are becoming more expensive and not necessarily as good as they could be, because small lines are being built all the way that have to end and start where today’s road is going, rather than being able to think completely new. I believe that when we look at this road company, it is essentially the main roads it is going to have – the long lines – and then it is natural to remember that the E6 goes way up in North Norway and will be one of the projects that we are looking at involving.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1160	‘In the agreement with the Ministry, NSB Gjøvikbanen AS has obligations in terms of frequency and capacity on the route. Regardless of the material deviation of the last weeks, it is known that old trainsets and high wear are likely to result in material not keeping a satisfactory standard out of the contractual period. This despite regular maintenance. Will the Council of State ensure that the NSB delivers wagon material in order to comply with the traffic contract and that passengers are guaranteed predictability and a satisfactory future offer?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1167	First of all, I appreciate the exposure to the Gjøvik track. It's a section of track that unfortunately hasn't been very high in the national transport plan, but that we're looking at to see how we can make sure it gets a better position than what it's had. The Gjøvik track, as I also said in the previous Question Time, has good success. It is a track that has had a formidable passenger growth after it was exposed to competition. It's amazing what an actual get, material and infrastructure take into account. It shows that there is will and enthusiasm locally in the company, a few can do incredible things. In order to answer the specific question concerning wagon material: The short answer is that yes, I have to assume that when there is an agreement at the bottom that a service is to be provided under a contract, one also has the material, or provides it, if it is the same as one has, is cancelled. When this was put at a competitive disadvantage, there was an agreement between the State and the NSB, which operates the Gjøvik Railway, but in a separate company. That agreement imposes general requirements on the material to be used during the contractual period. This involves train provision, technical conditions, number of seating positions, wheelchair lift, toilet and all of this. Thus, it is quite specified what an expected is to be delivered from Gjøvikbanen. So it's like the Gjøvik track leases this into the NSB. It was also part of the assumption when the agreement was concluded that regardless of who used to, they would be able to rent material from the NSB, if they wanted it. So that agreement between the NSB Gjøvikway AS and NSB AS is pretty clear. So I want to remind you that although I am fully aware that there has been a very bad period recently, where very much of the train equipment has been in technical trouble, a lot of this has been fixed, so that things are now largely in a more normal situation. But if you look over a longer period, there has been a demand for uptime on the track. Then one in the agreement says that one should have a regularity of 99 pst. per month. On average, a hat has 99,5 pst. up-time in 2013. This indicates that everything works very well. Although one might say that the train sets are not as modern and pretty as they should be, one delivers the services that a must. But we know that for every year that goes, this set of vehicles is aged, and so it's important that the NSB system looks at the train equipment they have today, and thinks about when things have to be repaired. There are different plans for the NSB to buy train sets that are inserted into different parts of the country as needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1180	I thank you for your answer. Of course, it is important for passengers on Gjøvikbana to have safety that the train is running when it is to be done. The Gjøvikbana has made a good effort over time. What's the challenge now is that the wagon has got such poor quality. They are so worn out that they need to be able to upgrade faster. We probably have to have a new material in place before. Perhaps the most important question that the Council of State should take with it and discuss is: What kind of action will the Council of State take to ensure that we have a qualitatively good enough wagon material for the supply period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1189	I'm concerned about it, and I see the challenges that lie in the question. At the same time, there is something that the NSB system must be aware of, because there is currently an economic cost for the NSB Gjøvik track for each train departure being cancelled. So there's economic incentives here that they actually deliver what they're going to deliver. It's not just that they're going to blow up if the train doesn't go, but it also costs them money – not only lost income, but also in the form of a fine that they have to pay per cancelled departure. This means that we believe that the NSB here must be vigilant for the responsibility they have under the agreement. We're coming, too. As we discussed in the previous Question Time about the bet in the future, it's of course that we want to phase in newer trainsets, like completely new trainsets. But the new train sets, the Flirt trains, for example, require slightly different platform types, slightly different systems around, which require investments first. That's what makes this a never-ending dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1196	I'm completely in agreement with the Council of State in these considerations. There is still this uncertainty towards the next bidding period – what kind of supply is it that passengers on the Gjøvik Railway can expect in the future, and what kind of ambitions does the Council of State have when it comes to securing progress and the process for a new supply period on the Gjøvik Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1203	Today's tender has a few years' term, and then there is an option of a few more years. We're going to be in the period that's now. We're now working on the railway system around what I call the Great Oslo, and if we include the Gjøvik Railway in it, I can tell you that there's a KVU going on now, which was started under the red-green government, and that's about the transport capacity. The KVU will come to our treatment next year. It will provide very good information. At the same time, when we want this to be a path to be put forward, we have to look at: what are natural investment periods to get platforms, light signals and all this up and up? What must be done temporarily to ensure that a supplier with the infrastructure he has, and what can a wagon set order, based on new infrastructure? These are investments that I think we both believe could have been made a long time ago. Then we have to deal with the situation as it is today. Then I am very pleased with the commitment, and I can ensure that we are also very concerned that this should work as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1216	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «According to VG 19 February, the view Hotell i Kvinesdal loses 1.5 million. kroner per year for missing road signs. Many travel life actors want signs along the road, but the legislation is very strict. It should be possible to ensure road safety while improving the provision of good roadside signage information to tourists. Will the Council of State adapt the legislation to make it easier for tourism operators to set up roadside signs and tourist signs in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1225	Thank you for an important question. We are in a process where one under both this government and former governments has been working to manage part of the transit traffic from cities outside the city. This means that tourist information, tourist places, everything from conservation hotels or popular hotels, as the view is, to other things that have been natural in sight when you've passed, suddenly becomes a little out of the ordinary when the road is changed. I think it's positive if we can get a sign that makes people still aware of good, old pearls, great family experiences or cultural historical experiences. Today I know that the Road Service is trying to have a consistent view of this all around the country. At the same time, there are individuals who are in and make assessments, and that means that what is allowed in one place would not always be allowed in another place. Then it is important that we become aware of it, so that we can still improve this work. At the same time, work is now under way in the Road Directorate on the regulatory framework for signage. I am positive that we involve more actors in this work, for example. NHO Travel life and others, who can see the signage needs not only from a driver’s perspective or from a road authority perspective but also from an experience perspective. I want to have contact with the Road Directorate in the future and make sure that several different stakeholders, representing something at a slightly general level, get involved in that work. I myself have been a driver in the United States for many, many years and see that the information you can get on the roads, given that the signs are well designed and do not become like a jungle of signs, is good information that allows local businesses to maintain their good situation even if the road is laid around, and that one as a traveller gets a better experience, especially as a tourist, because it is easier to find sights. With regard to the View Hotel concrete, it has been, after I have been informed, set up a sign for this hotel. It was set up on November 4th last year. There has been a longer process, and in this particular case one has been met by the Road Directorate and the Road Administration. What matters to me is that all the others with similar situations around the country are treated equally. That's why it's important that we get into the process that's in the Road Directorate now, and make sure that external people, for example. The NHO Travel Life, as mentioned, is allowed to be more closely involved in that work. My goal is therefore to ensure road safety. That means you can't have a sign jungle along the way. However, providing good information that takes care of local interests and the traveler’s interests is important. Then we'll have to make some adjustments to how it's being practiced today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1240	I thank you for your answer. I see it positively, considering that a person wants to do something in this area. In a larger travel life survey published in January of this year, it appears that many tourists, both Norwegian and foreign, have been shown how badly our tourist attractions are signposted. While everyone agrees that we have some unique travel products, we can't show them, because of lack of signage. At the top of it all, there is a signage practice under the direction of the State Road Service, which is different from part of the country to part of the country, which unfortunately causes part of this administration to act and appear as random. Should not the renewal of Norway which the government, together with the cooperation parties, has undertaken to implement also include a comprehensive divorce practice that does not vary from region to region and from part of the country to part of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1249	I'll probably believe that the Vegvesen will claim that they have an overall sign practice today, but it's obvious that it's not experienced like that by many of us out there. So I would say that one is a little bit too restrictive in relation to what many of us want, because that information you get as a traveler, especially as a tourist, along the way, is important. And then it's also important that one clearer to have a sign policy that makes the sign intuitively help one on the way. There I think it's also done a lot well, but I think it's also a little bit to learn. However, once again, as a driver in Norway, Norway has considerable benefits in some areas. United States, e.g. – since I have a lot of experience from there – have other advantages in other areas. But we want to take a round with the Road Directorate to make sure that we get a better service setting for what information tourists get. Then you're going to have to discuss if it means a lot of things, or if you're picking up more on a pool in the individual area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1258	I also thank you for that answer. Many of the travel businesses that lose money because of lack of signage are companies that have received large amounts of money for, among other things. marketing, from the same country which refuses them a divorce. However, an offensive travel business that the view of the Kvinesdal has not given up, and it is just as the Council of State says, that they have been allowed to carry out a pilot project that can measure the impact of the sign compared to the number of visits. But it only got them after a no, with the reason that the road users should not be led far from the farms on which they are actually going. They got a yes if they could prepare a study where they developed the general view of signs on European roads by road users, and pay everything for themselves, NOK 200,000. Is this a way of financing innovation in the State Road Service that the Council of State will applaud? And shouldn't the government take that bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1267	At least the exact answer the representative refers to is not an argument that I would use myself. If an attraction is 500 meters from a road or 5 kilometers from a road, I think it might be worth separating from it anyway, so setting a bastant limit I'm skeptical to. But there'll always be a certain degree of discretion here, for how far down the tourist path is going to go before a local egg sale can be perceived as a tourist attraction that's going to get the sign of the Road Service, or just as an advertisement for it a driver with. One place the boundary has to go. I mean, we're going to set the limit somewhere else than today. It has probably been a bit too strong a regulation tool in the past. We want to make it easier to be tourist, we want to make visible tourist experiences that are along the way, as one at least as a foreign tourist does not think about when a rider there. The best way to do that is to make sure that there's a sign there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1281	«The Minister of Culture called on 11 February the Chairman of the Board of the Museums of South-Trøndelag as a result of the presentation of the Progress Party in the Spring Programme to the Trondheim Art Museum. The director of the Trondheim Art Museum was then punished by his superiors. In how strong a law of order is it acceptable to mention a party of government before the Minister of Culture believes that a must intervene, and will the Minister of Culture lament his conduct towards the Trondheim Museum of Art?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1288	The Constitutional Act § 100 states: «Friendly Opinions on the Swedish National Board of Directors and any other Item are Any Allowable». The Annual Letter of Grant from the Ministry of Culture to the Museums underlines that the Museums will have a free professional position which provides room for action to ask critical questions about both the past and the present. This requires arm's length distance from public authorities. I would also like to say to the representative Serigstad Valen that a museum can write in close proximity to what it wants about political parties and other social conditions. To the extent that there are limits, these are contained in the provisions of the Penal Code and not in the Ministry of Culture. I have at no time had any intention of trying to influence how the museum unit in Trondheim expresses itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1302	I believe the Council of State has no intention of influencing the opinions of the Art Museum in Trondheim, but it is difficult to understand anything but that the Council of State reacted on behalf of a government partner. Suzette Paasche says that the director of MiST was asked whether the mention of the Progress Party is the official position of the museums. It raises the question, if so, what would the Minister of Culture do with it? What should the Council of State really do with the information she requested, and does the Council of State agree that such a question can have a deterrent effect on cultural institutions, and is perceived as a strong response to a free expression from a cultural institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1309	As I have said in the media, it has not been my intention to try to influence this at all, and I will take a strong distance from it. I cannot control the information that has gone between the director and the museum. It has also been expressed by this director – not least in the media, but also in a letter sent to one of the shareholders – that there was no fear of the information I was asking for. I was busy getting the facts out, and it's also underlined by the director. But then I also said in the media that I am learning all the time, and I see that I will think well before I possibly take a phone call to a director in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1316	I see the last answer as a bit polemic, because no one has any problems with a Minister of Culture calling a director. The point is the context this is happening in, and in this case it is a museum that has referred to a government party in strong order. The Minister for Culture has himself stated earlier, including: on 13 February, that she would obtain information on this matter on behalf of her colleagues. First of all, do I have to ask again: does the Council of State agree that such a question can have a deterrent effect on cultural institutions? The second question is, is this how to perceive that the Council of State will have no problem doing anything similar again? In the past, the Council of State has stated that she will think well again before making a similar enquiry, but this response may seem as if the Council of State now feels it is completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1323	I repeat: I took that phone to get me information. It was based on the fact that I had received an e-mail from my political adviser, who had again received it from a political adviser in the Progress Party, considering that there was something here that could get under pressure. I was interested in getting me information about what this was actually, in order to be prepared to meet and provide information about what this really was about. That was the basis for me to pick up that phone. So I say that I am learning all the time, and I see that with the dimensions that this case has got, I will guard myself very strongly to take a phone, because I see that it can also, of course, have a very great effect on them that this might have gone beyond in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1334	My question to the Minister of Culture is: ‘In several newspapers, enquiries are made both from the Prime Minister’s Office and the Ministry of Culture to the Trondheim Art Museum on the basis of the content of the foreword of a programme related to their spring activities. The Minister of Culture has said several times that she wants to give cultural life freedom reform and less detailed management. Is this what she is putting in a freedom reform and less detailed management?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1343	The aim of my enquiry was just to find out what this was actually about. I assumed that I had to expect questions from different teams, which I also referred to earlier, whether they referred to the comments from an art museum director. That is why I wanted to clarify what it was all about – that is the basis for it. In a statement to the South-Trøndelag County Municipality dated 21 February 2014, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Museums of South-Trøndelag also confirms that my enquiry was only perceived as a request for factual information and that it was not an attempt to influence the handling of a specific case. It follows from this that it is not relevant to discuss this against the objective of freedom reform and less detailed management of the present government. The fact that the letters of grant to both the museums and other cultural institutions for 2014 are more concise and contain fewer detailed leads than in previous years is, however, a reflection of our desire for less detailed management, so I can assure the representative Aasrud that we will continue to focus on a reform of freedom, which will lead to less detailed management in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1350	I thank you for the answer, but this has been perceived and commented on in large parts of Culture-Norway so that you express wonder about what has happened and that it helps you feel less freedom. So we've heard here today that the Minister of Culture is constantly talking about what was her intention to do with the conversation that was taken – that was to get factual information. I guess it wasn't the color of the programme the Minister of Culture was interested in getting to know something about, so it might be interesting to know what was really being said that made the reactions as they were. Was it just those on the other side who misunderstood?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1355	As I have expressed many times, I took that phone to get me information about what this really was about. It is also what has been confirmed by what has been stated in the evening post, and by reference from those who have received this phone, among others. director Rasmus Brodtkorb, who says: ‘I was the one who had the conversation with the Council of State and the conversation with Paasche. I can assure you that the text message from Paasche was not written in “fear” as a result of my conversation with the Council of State. In addition, Paasche regrets that the notification was sent at all, both to the board and to the board of directors.» With regard to this which has to do with our reform of freedom, I am delighted with the debates that have to come. We must fill them with content and be sure that we are contributing to less detailed management in the years to come, and are meeting a constructive and good debate with the Workers' Party in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1365	I record here that the Minister of Culture believes that it is only the recipient of her message that has misunderstood and contributed to the insecurity that has come from the employees of the museums and that the rest of the cultural life is also concerned with. Once the Minister of Culture has criticized the Stoltenberg government for wanting to control culture, it has done so through open letters of assignment, which have been verifiable – there has been written in it. So now we see a Minister of Culture who wants to steer culture through phone calls. Does the Minister for Culture see that it is problematic that there is no transparency in the way you want to govern, and will she regret that the matter has come out as it has?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1372	I actually agree a little with Trond Giske when he says in a newspaper: a good minister of culture should have close contact with actors in cultural life. I also remind you that this director, whom I contacted, has also pointed out that there is no unique case for a Minister of Culture to contact this director and MiST. The management of MiST has therefore been contacted directly by former government councils in specific matters, by Anniken Huitfeldt and Trond Giske respectively. I find reason to quote what is in the Evening Post on February 25th: ‘As Chairman of the Board, I have no concerns about being contacted by the Department or the Council of State, as long as factual information is requested. This is contrary to trying to influence the management of the company or how to deal with specific matters.» And then I stress, "The last mentioned has not happened in this case." I feel very calm about what we're going to focus on in the future, and it's a great opportunity today to at least tell the entire Norwegian cultural life that our freedom reform is at stake. We're going to fill it with content.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1391	«The councils have engaged in a presentation of the Spring Programme for the Trondheim Art Museum. She did because the Advancement Party felt described in an undesirable way. Why did the Council of State not reject the request to indicate that a reference does not fall within the responsibility of the Minister of Culture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1398	What representatives of the Progress Party think about the opinions and characteristics of the art director in question, I will leave to the party's own politicians to comment. I agree without further delay with the questioner that it is outside the Ministry of Culture's domain to enter such a change of words. But with the danger of repeating myself: My intention to engage me in that matter was therefore to obtain the facts in order to answer the questions you might expect to be asked to me on the occasion of the case. That was the purpose of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1403	It has now also been found in the media that, prior to the Minister for Culture's telephone call, the department had already been in contact with the institution for answers to questions. Is this true? And in that case, why was it necessary for the Minister of Culture to call the Chairman of the Board? A follow-up question to this is also: why does the Minister of Culture consider it a natural step? I would believe that if you were dissatisfied with the setup of the National Theatre, it was unnatural to call the Chairman of the Board in view of the responsibility of a Chairperson. If you're dissatisfied with the head of the evening post, it's quite unnatural to call the director of the evening post to have opinions on it. Similarly, it becomes unnatural to call the director of a cultural institution, as in this example, to express dissatisfaction. But the question is: is it true that the department was in contact with the institution in advance of the Minister of Culture's questions over the telephone, and if so, why does the Minister of Culture think it was relevant to follow up on a new telephone call?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1408	It is true that the department was also contacted. I have tried to explain this earlier. I was on my way home from Sochi-OL, and in the car on my way inward I get an e-mail from my political advisor with this information. There was also contact with the department, which had initiated an enquiry against Suzette Paasche, the director of MiST. As I have also said before, I am impatient, so I took that phone to try to get information. It was certainly not certain that I would receive that information from the department during that evening. But that information was confirmed by the department after I spoke to the director Rasmus Brodtkorb. I think it's important in this context to focus on the fact that my whole purpose of this was to get me this factual information in order to be prepared for me to have questions about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1417	I record that we have a Minister of Culture who takes the matter into his own hands rather than trusting in his own office, and who does not trust that you will not get the right information or get it in time. The reason why this is a matter in Stortinget is that it is a matter of role understanding. The Minister of Culture started his answer to the first question on this matter by saying that it is important to have an ‘arm’ distance. So we're just left with the question, how long do the government really have? The director of MiST, Suzette Paasche, says that the Minister of Culture would have confirmed whether this view of the Progress Party is MiST's official position. The Minister for Culture has so far not wanted to answer the pressure on the question of whether questions were asked about this. But for the Storting, it is actually important to clarify, as this is about the sense of role. Therefore, my final question is: Did the government council or staff in the department ask questions about this view was the official view on the Progress Party from the MiST side?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1424	As I have said before, it is incredibly important that we have free speech. We do not intend to try to stop any of the statements that come, either from cultural personalities or others. It's incredibly important for me to get underlined. It is also very important for me to make it clear that I trust the office. It is not that the office is something for itself. The office is there all the time – they operate on behalf of the political leadership at all times. It's not like they're incapacitated to operate on their own. They gather the information they have to feel that there is a need to obtain. Yes, we're going to have an arm's length distance, and I'm going to say again that I'm going to think again before I might have to take a similar phone in the future. I've said that before, and I still know that. Let me finish with some wise words of Arne Garborg: ‘A teacher as long as a person lives, and every lesson brings new sorrow. Every grief restores power. But no one was educated until he had learned to tea."
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1444	Then we skip to question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1451	‘The removal of price controls on agricultural properties will result in a significant increase in prices in some areas. This will raise the threshold for young people who want to enter the industry, and it will go beyond profitability. Higher prices of agricultural property will not simply raise the prices of the food produced. More land can become unprofitable and enforcement of the operating obligation may be more difficult. Does the Government consider this to be in line with the objectives of increased food production and recruitment to the industry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1458	The government wants to strengthen the farmer's right to freely dispose of his own property. Property law as it is today, including price control, limits the farmer's availability. I also believe it is unfair that the seller should not be able to get the market that is willing to pay for a property, in line with everyone else who sells real estate. The main objective of agricultural policy shall be cost-effective agricultural production. The government wants to increase the production of food and believes that the land needs to be used well, so that we provide the highest possible production. I want to increase production, among others. by ensuring that more people own the land they run. I believe that price controls may hamper the marketing of agricultural properties, and I want a wider range of agricultural properties and additional land. The abolition of price controls may facilitate a well-functioning market for turnover, where prices are regulated by the market. Many people are waiting today to sell because they believe the concession price will not reflect what the property is worth. In central areas it may also be impossible to purchase a new dwelling for the person who has to sell an agricultural property at a price far below the price of dwellings. I agree with the representative of Håheim that the abolition of price controls can allow for higher prices for some properties in central districts, for example. near larger cities such as Oslo, Trondheim and Stavanger. This is not the same as a general increase in the price of the production areas – it is primarily the housing value of the property that will lead to a higher price. Otherwise, I have great confidence that the person who wants to buy agricultural property will also assess the price of the production area and operating buildings in relation to the planned operation. We have to be confident that everyone who is going to be feeding has that common sense. Therefore, the view of the parties on the price will reflect what will be a socially sound price in the future. On this basis, I do not agree with the representative of Håheim that the abolition of price controls will lead to areas becoming unprofitable, or that it will be more difficult to maintain the obligation to operate. There are a number of unfortunate aspects to today's price control. Price controls dampen the desire to invest in existing owners and prevent the introduction of capital and competences from paying new owners. Many will not be prepared to make investments that cannot be expected to be reflected in the price that the concession authority will accept. Moreover, price controls are complicated and time consuming for both private parties and concession authorities. There are also differences in the way price controls are practised in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1471	Thanks for the answer. Governments focus on those who want to sell, but I think we also need to focus on those who want to enter the industry. The government, eager to give large tax cuts to those who have the most in the past, has also imposed on those who want to enter the industry a solid tax return now that the property tax has been removed. With the removal of price controls, it will also be more expensive for young people who want to enter the industry in some areas. In summary, this government is pursuing a policy that makes it more profitable to leave the industry, raising the threshold for those who want to enter. We're worried about that, because we're facing a generation change in agriculture, and we need to recruit more. Then, in yesterday's VG, we could read that the Council of State believes that the most important measure to lure more young people into the peacock was 'pronounce'. I think that's also positive, and we'd like to take that into account. But does the Council of State really believe that ‘promise’ should outweigh all these negative proposals that the government intends to put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1482	I believe it is absolutely essential that farmers get the status they deserve as food producers. It is also the case that most agricultural property transfers take place internally within the individual family, and then without price control. This is now the year, there are fewer than 400 transfers of built-up property and about 400. 200 uninhabited properties subject to price control. We also have a system where different municipalities practice differently, so it becomes completely random how you are treated as property owners, depending on where you live in the country. I believe it is important that those who are going into the farming profession, as in all other professions, should make an overall assessment of whether it is profitable to enter, and that it is not the task of those who are sitting on these farms, to subsidize others who want to enter the industry. It's a balance that the individual has to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1489	I fully agree with the Council of State that farmers deserve status because they produce food and maintain housing and do much for our country. But I think we should also listen to the industry. The price control proposal has been consulted. Of the 149 hearing opinions, an overwhelming majority warn against removing price controls, precisely because it will counter the objective of efficiency improvement, increased food production and recruitment. It could have been tempting to ask the Council of State what she has understood that no one else in the industry has understood. But let's raise our eyes a little bit, because this is not the only proposal that the government comes with. Earlier this year, it has been announced that you will repeal the concession law, remove the requirement of residence, the law of nobility and the prohibition of sharing. A wise lady once said that everything is related to everything. The peasant team has, among other things: proposed a separate sample to look at all these laws as a whole. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State think it makes sense to see all these laws together, or will you continue to work piece by piece and divided?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1496	We are committed to ensuring a policy that gives individual farmers the right to dispose of their own land. It is otherwise wrong what the representative says, that we should remove the obligation to operate. What is contained in the agreement is that we should investigate it. I would also like to say that I believe it is fundamentally unfair that politicians and bureaucrats should be able to go in and review the price that two private parties have concluded. It can't be that those who sit on a commercial property, like a farm, are going to have to subsidize people who want to go into the industry. They must, in line with everyone else who wants to start business, make an overall assessment of the economic situation. I want to continue the line I've been on, namely, working to give the farmer more control over his own property in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1505	Then we go back to question 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1512	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and says: ‘There is again evidence of extensive unreported escape in the farming industry. For each fish that is reported to have escaped, five fish are not reported. In practice, a culture of routine environmental crime has been established in the industry. The reason is few inspections, low risk of detection and weak criminal responses. The situation is a critical threat both to the reputation of the Norwegian wild species and to the reputation of the industry. Will the Council of State show more power than its predecessors, and require the labelling of all farmed fish and increasing the level of fines?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1521	I look seriously at the escape situation in the aquaculture industry. That's why this is an area that will be prioritised. The evacuation of salmon from farming facilities is a problem that the industry needs to solve. The government will strengthen efforts to combat escape through binding agreements with the industry. This government has also increased the appropriations for monitoring escaped fish in rivers, which allow for much more extensive monitoring of rivers than in the past. The marine research institute’s risk assessment suggests that actual escape is likely to be several times higher than reported, especially for salmon that escapes while they are small. This further underlines the seriousness of the situation. Labelling itself does not solve the problem of genetic impact on wild fish. Labelling will only take effect if the river catchment activity is intensified. The actual costs of defrosting should primarily be borne by those responsible for the evacuations. It is therefore not appropriate to require the labelling of farmed fish without it being possible to trace the fish back to the legitimate owner. The government wants to practise the polluter-pays principle also in the aquaculture industry. In this way, we will be able to impose on the person responsible for the evacuation, also the responsibility for cleaning it up. Before we go to the step of applying labelling, we also need to make sure that there are methods available that are animal welfare-friendly and that costs are proportionate to the benefits. Several major operators in the aquaculture industry have recently announced that, in cooperation with the Veterinary Institute, they will test a traceability system for farmed salmon. The system shall enable salmon to be traced back to the holding. The method may be used for both the traceability of escaped farmed salmon and the traceability for consumer and market reasons. Just before the new year, the provisions of the Aquaculture Act on the cap on the fee for infringements were amended. The ceiling on the infringement fee set by the administration is now 15 G, or approx. 1.2 million. NOK, and I have no further plans now to change this. However, I would also like to add that if the infringement is so serious that an infringement fee of 15 G is not considered sufficient, the task of the Directorate of Fisheries is to report the case to the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1538	As the Council of State is aware, the situation of escaped farmed fish and unreported escaped farmed fish has continued for very many years, with increasing negative consequences for the wild species. The excuse for researching labelling has also continued for many years. There is a close link between this and the fact that there is no proper political pressure to implement it. On the other hand, the government has done so by abolishing the system introduced by the previous government, by at least establishing a collective responsibility for the capture of spaced farmed fish. The question remains: what will the government do to prevent us from getting the sea full of escaped farmed fish with even greater negative consequences for the wild species in the years ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1547	The government is concerned that the farming industry is based on sustainability. This means that both lice and escape and other types of environmental impacts are followed very closely. We're interested in agreements with the industry to ensure that we reach the goals we've set to bring the escape down to an absolute minimum. I also want to remind the representative that the industry itself actually has a zero vision. I think there is respect for having it, but then the industry also needs to be challenged to spend more money on research and innovation, so that we can find the solutions that are needed to get the escape down faster. Then I will finally add that we have had a formidable increase in production within the last decade, approx. A double. At the same time, the escape numbers have gone down. But we can't settle down until we get these numbers as close to zero as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1556	Governments are in a situation where they can do more than conclude agreements with industry. Governments may use the means available to a government, namely to make demands and to carry out criminal reactions. We have a lice situation that everyone agrees on is unacceptable, and we have a veterinary institute and other professional authorities who say that the toolbox to solve the lice problem is now empty, due to multi-resistance, etc. What concrete measures, in addition to agreements and calls, will the Government and the Council of State take in order to overcome the lice problem, which has, in fact, been going on for very many years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1565	As I said instead, lice and escape are the two most pressing challenges for the aquaculture industry today. That's why we have a lot of focus on it in the department, and we're now looking at what kind of action we can take, what kind of research is going on, and what we can trigger so that we can find good solutions to this faster. There are technology developments related to lice, etc. which may be remedial measures. I'm not saying that we have a solution around the next turn, but at least I have taken the initiative that we in the department now have quarterly meetings with the Directorate of Fisheries and with the Food Safety, where we analyse and are ‘hands-on’ on development, and then we will continuously assess what measures are going on both to get rid of escape and to get rid of lice. So I remind you of the green concession round that is now to be awarded around Easter. Hopefully there will also be proposals and new solutions that mean that we can move in the right direction in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1578	‘Marginal nutrition is important for the districts. Significant growth is expected until 2050. However, the profitability of the whitefish industry is difficult. The government has reaped a cut in funds for technology development in the whitefish industry, while at the same time increasing the allocation of marine research – just to develop new technologies. Why does the government cut funds for development in the fishing industry, which is an important regional industry, at a time when there is a great need for renewal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1585	Marine nutrition is particularly important for districts. Sustainable fisheries and aquaculture produce direct and indirect positive ring-effects in many communities and regions. Workplaces are equally valuable, whether they are in the whitefish industry, aquaculture or other industries, but the activity must in any case be based on profitability. The profitability of all parts of the fishing industry and of all-year, safe jobs is a fundamental prerequisite for a good and forward-looking district policy. That part of the whitefish industry is struggling with profitability is nothing new. To change this, we need to be willing to think in new ways. The Government assesses different instruments to enhance the profitability of the fishing industry. The so-called whitefish package that the red-green government proposed overtime late last autumn had measures that we believe would weaken the incentives for necessary conversion in the industry. The major seasonal fluctuations are a particular challenge for the whitefish industry. We are now working in several fields to achieve a smoother raw material supply: a new strategy for the live storage of cod, fresh fish bonus schemes and a change in the start of the quota year. All of this can contribute to increased quality, less fluctuations in production and more smooth and more stable deliveries to customers outside and at home. I am also pleased that we were able to find room for increased marine research efforts in 2014. In concrete terms, the allocation by the Norwegian Research Council to technology development, product development and market research in the marine industries increased by 10 million. kr in 2014. This is in addition to reinforced work on the development of new forms of operation and technological solutions in aquaculture. In the years to come, the government will work to strengthen marine research in order to realise the high value creation potential as well as described in the 2050 report ‘Value Creation Based on Productive Seas’. High quality and sustainable stock management are important sales arguments for Norwegian fish in response to environmentally conscious consumers outside and at home. Seven weeks out in 2014 it is gratifying to note that the market development of white fish is promising. During my visit to Øksnes a week ago, I received, among other things. hear that from one of the receipts this year 7 000 tonnes of fresh screed had been exported to Europe, with particular volume growth in countries such as Spain and Portugal, which have traditionally bought Norwegian rockfish at this time of the year. Norwegian screams of highest quality are now conquering new countries and are found on the menu of star chefs in great restaurants all over Europe. The Marine Food Council's important commitment to building the brand «scream» now bears fruits and increases the value creation during the harvest season.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1602	Large parts of the coast of North Norway are now insurrection, among others. because the government wants to change the delivery obligations and the delivery conditions. When the Prime Minister was asked about this in the questionnaire earlier today, she said that the challenge is in particular that there must also be profitability at all levels of the whitefish industry. That's right, but it's still cut in technology that can generate profitability. I believe this shows that rhetoric and policy in this area are not interrelated. At the same time as government cuts in technology development for the whitefish industry, it is increasing to technology development in aquaculture. That is exactly what the Minister for Fisheries refers to now — an increase in marine research that has largely gone into the aquaculture industry. This does not help to build up the development of the whitefish industry and the coast. Does the Minister for Fisheries think that such cuts help the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1609	In my first answer I showed that we work in three other fields. One is a strategy for the live storage of cod, the other is to look at how to use fresh fish bonus schemes, and the third is to move the quota year from 1 January to 1 September. All of these three things will help to give us a smoother raw material supply. We have a greater chance of getting fresh fish delivered to the industry for a greater part of the year, and it's not least important, when it comes to building markets out, that you have a product that can come fresh and of the same quality all year round. There's an incredible amount of white fish to learn from the salmon, and there can also be salmon as a door opener for the white fish industry if we do manage to get to a whole year's production. That must be the goal – not leave periods that industry is currently struggling with, and people who don't know if they have a job to go to when the peak season is over in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1614	Fresh fish strategy is good. It had the red-green government – bet on living storage as well. That's why I think it was negative when the government cut out the 5 million bet. kr such as, inter alia: contained in Nofima on catch management and live storage. Other measures can also help this industry. But when you see the result collected for the coast after the first few months with this government, I think you've taken the wrong grips. By removing the growth package for the whitefish industry, the Minister of Fisheries now calls it to be able to weaken the incentives for the development of the white fish industry, thus cutting funds for technology development. What may weaken the incentives in the whitefish industry, she believes, is good for the aquaculture industry. It's a logic I don't get to go up. In addition, the technology effort, the market work in Nofima and regional development funds were also cut. How is this strategy to lead to the technological development that the fishing industry desperately needs and that it needs now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1623	I find that in my meetings with fishermen, whether they are with the Fiskarlag, in Øksnes or elsewhere I have met the fishermen, there is greater optimism in the industry than it has been in a very long time. I hear no one out there asking for the white fish package, but I hear many out there asking for live storage, asking for other ways to secure the fresh raw material, and that you should be able to get this season that is «all hour high» four times a year – and it is rather flat for the rest of the year. I hear a lot of fishermen who are concerned that we are going to move the quota year, that we are going to get a fish in the autumn that will also help to get more stable deliveries to the industry. I must be so honest: I do not hear any more calls after what was the previous government's proposal, but I am listening very much to the proposals and strategies that this government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1634	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘Norway Seafood’s installation in Rypefjord, which has 6 radiation allowances attached to it, is planned to be closed. This has led to major protests and torch trains in Hammerfest. Despite the commitments, the fish are absent and landed instead at freezing hotels for processing in China. Has the Council of State intended to charge the company that the concessions were granted for the purpose of ensuring the continuous delivery of raw material to the processing plant and that, in the event of non-compliance, the quotas and concessions will be withdrawn?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1643	On 19 February, I had a meeting with the Norwegian Seafoods AS and the Sea Fish ASA, where I was informed about the plans of the companies, as they are also now presented in a press release from the companies recently. The plans of the Norway Seafoods must be said to be more offensive than the speculations in advance. I notice that it is added to growth in Melbu, Stamsund and Båtsfjord. In Hammerfest, the aim is to move production from Rypefjord to Forsøl. The plant in Mehamn is planned to sell, and the department has been informed by the company that there are stakeholders in the plant. The government is committed to creating predictability and ensuring good framework conditions, so that we in the maritime food industry can make the necessary transition in a situation where industry is facing increasingly tougher global competition. Poor profitability in the fishing industry has for a long time created uncertainty for individual employees and for the municipalities concerned. This is a complex and complex problem, the simple solutions do not exist. I expect that the company's strategy will provide the basis for full-year, safe and profitable jobs. Different conditions are attached to the authorisation of marine fish to own trawlers, including: duty of activity in Hammerfest. Seafishers also have universal obligations. If the catch is not purchased by the primary beneficiary, it shall be offered to the region, in this case East Finland. This subsidiary universal service obligation means that mandatory catches may benefit other installations in the region. The obligation to supply is an obligation to provide, and does not imply a requirement for delivery – as I believe it is indicated in the question. I assume that marine fish meet all their conditions and will take care of it. The Directorate of Fisheries carries out annual monitoring of compliance with the delivery conditions and infringements of conditions and regulations may be sanctioned. As I see it, profitable activity is the best guarantee for full-year jobs, and it wants the government to facilitate through the conditions we impose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1660	Thanks for the answer. This brings us right to what is at the heart of the dispute, the Minister's decision on regional universality. I stand here and look at a cooperation agreement concluded between the municipality of Aker Seafoods and Gamvik, where it is stated that it is the view of the parties that the establishment of fish production in Mehamn will help to strengthen the fishing industry in the countryside and facilitate safe and future-oriented jobs in the municipality of Gamvik. The same company also filed an application on 5 October 2005 through the law firm Wikborg, Rein & Co. to merge ships and land facilities to view ships and countries in the context. Later, Aker Seafoods sends a letter to the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast, requiring that this universal service should not be restricted to activities in Gamvik. The ministry asks, why in the world isn't that? So all of a sudden we're in a situation where this new government concludes the same way as Aker Seafoods. How could that have happened?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1671	This is a purely legal issue with regard to the permits granted to the company in 2006 – if I do not remember the wrong year. With regard to the obligations and conditions then in force, Mehamn is not included. If there is an agreement between the municipality and the company, there is a private law agreement that in that case must be prosecuted in private law. But the state terms do not provide coverage to require activity in Mehamn. Then it is that if this was so obvious and so simple, you can wonder why the red-green government has had the matter lying down for two and a half years and did not make a decision until last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1678	There we were all of a sudden in the process of disclaiming the responsibility again. This matter lies on the table of this minister, and the situation is that the State has been part of this agreement. If you only read the agreement between Aker Seafoods and Gamvik Municipality, you will find that Innovation Norway AS and DnB NOR are part of that agreement as creditors. That means that the state has been involved quite so clearly. When the same company merges farms and fish farms, it is obvious that one has seen this in context. Then it is very strange when the minister claims that this is a purely legal assessment, because it appears that the purely legal assessment before this government took over was different from the legal assessment that this government has carried out. This representative does not get to vote that a person is hiding behind the finger on this issue, when this is actually pure politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1685	I repeat: this is not politics, this is jus – how the terms the company was given in 2006 are to understand. And if there is a private law agreement between Gamvik Municipality and Aker Seafoods at that time, that way must be pursued. I would like to remind the representative again that this is a legal assessment, and it would have been possible to make this decision last autumn. But I think maybe it was a little uncomfortable what kind of outcome it was going to be, and that was why the outgoing government left this case in the drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1696	‘The Government cut the CO2 compensation scheme in its draft budget. This was not adopted after pressure from the Workers' Party and other parties at Stortinget. In Helgeland, this would have major consequences for Alcoa in the Lake of Mo Industrial Park and the companies in Mo Industripark. The reversal does not mean that it is now the predictability needed by the power-intensive industry. This is very unfortunate for the industry and for the communities affected. Can the Council of State guarantee that they will not once again propose cuts in this scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1706	The government is pursuing a comprehensive industrial policy to ensure competitive conditions for industry. In this context, the compensation scheme is one of many important measures that help to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian industry. The CO2 compensation scheme affects the competitiveness of industry, but many other factors are equally important. The underlying price of power and good access to power and labour with the right skills, in addition to the development of the price, is very important for the competitiveness of industry. The industry in Norway has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 39 pst. from 1990 to 2012. This shows that the industry in Norway is adaptable. At the same time, we see that productivity growth was weak under the red-green government. It is therefore this government's policy to strengthen the competitiveness of industry. We strengthen competitiveness in different ways. The government provides for growth-enhancing tax relief and must follow the rules of action. We have reduced the property tax and company tax and removed the inheritance tax. We will also review and improve the tax depreciation rules. At the same time, we're going to renovate the infrastructure. This also contributes to better framework conditions for industry in Norway. Norway is one of the few countries in Europe that have introduced CO2 compensation. The CO2 compensation scheme has primarily an environmental objective. The scheme shall prevent increased greenhouse gas emissions by shifting industry to countries with less stringent climate regulation, so-called carbon leakage. It is important to me that the compensation system itself is predictable. That consideration has been taken into account by the CO2 compensation regulation. This Regulation shall apply until 2020. The Norwegian scheme must follow the EU guidelines on CO2 compensation in order to ensure that the scheme is in line with the EEA State Aid Code. If the EU chooses to amend these guidelines, it cannot be excluded that the Norwegian scheme must also be amended. However, I have not yet seen any indication that the EU will change its guidelines. As the representative is aware, the scope of this scheme also depends on sufficient appropriations, both from current and future aggregates. I can assure the representative that the government will pursue a comprehensive industrial policy which, overall, ensures the competitiveness of the Norwegian industry. The CO2 compensation scheme is part of this whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1745	Thanks for the answer. I note that the Minister would not guarantee that they would not look at this scheme again, and we are, of course, eagerly awaiting the budget they are sitting and are going to discuss now. The Progress Party and the Right were ready to set up this system when this was discussed when they were in opposition, and it was very surprising that both the Advance Party and the Right, as one of the first things they did in government, cut in this system by over 50 p.m., or 123 million. kr. There were strong reactions, both from industry and from Stortinget. It's a little strange that when you work in the election campaign to counter the doubling of the Norwegian economy and facilitate initial investment in the mainland industry, you do the opposite when you get into government. Fortunately, the government had to turn around in Stortinget after industrial uprisings and environmental organisations. My question will then be again: Was this an accident at work? Will you ensure this predictability of the industry during this government period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1758	As I said in my first answer, the compensation scheme is part of the picture when the industry makes its investment decisions, and one has to see the CO2 compensation scheme in the light of everything else that also affects profitability and competitiveness. So the government of Solberg took good steps to improve the competitiveness of the industry for 2014. The CO2 compensation scheme is part of the whole, but we want to look at the whole picture. For us, it is important to have a good industrial policy that also takes care of the process industry in Norway. As I also said, they have done a good job of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and we want to have an industrial policy so that we also have a process industry in Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1769	Yes, good industrial policy is important, and therefore it is important to have a predictable framework for this industry. Power-intensive industry is looking far ahead. I myself have been visiting some of them, and they say that the uncertainty that has now been created causes large investments to be put on hold. There is no point in having a good industrial policy on paper if one is not specific about one of the most important instruments, which was absolutely certain. These are companies that had been hit by up to 30 million. NOK if you had done this cut. Now they have to sit and wait for the next budget, and maybe you get an equally unpredictable budget after that again. It surprises me that the government is not clear that the proposal they submitted to the budget is the policy of the government during the period we are in. So I ask again: will the Minister have a predictable policy in this area over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1776	The government will have a predictable industrial policy. The CO2 compensation scheme is part of this. However, for the power-intensive industry, access to power, the price of power, access to the right skills, the price of crowns and good infrastructure policies are also important. For us, the whole of industrial policy is the most important thing here. We believe that the CO2 compensation scheme is part of that. But overall industrial policy will take care of the process industry in Norway, and we need a good process industry that continues to work well to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. It also benefits the global climate situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1787	Question 15 has been answered earlier. Question 16, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1796	‘The government has indicated that they will invest in nationwide schemes in Innovation Norway. This will reduce the number of district funds if the total pot is not increased. In addition, this year's budget will cut 430 million. In terms of regional development resources, it is with concern that the government is weakening a number of schemes for the development of industry in the districts. How will the Council of State ensure that districts also have access to food policy instruments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1803	The main mechanisms for triggering innovation and industrial development in Norway are the nationwide public sector instruments. These schemes are also available in the districts. The main share of the funds allocated through Innovation Norway and the other public sector actors is nationwide and shall support the best projects, irrespective of geography. In addition to the funds available in the nationwide schemes, nearly 1.2 billion has been allocated. kr in regional development funds in 2014. These funds allow municipalities to focus their efforts on innovation and innovation. In order to stimulate increased investment in research and innovation in business, the User-led Innovation Arena, BIA, in the Norwegian Research Council, was strengthened by 80 million. kr in 2014 compared to the draft budget of the Stoltenberg II Government. Similarly, the annual tax credit for own R & D was increased from 5.5 million by the FUNN scheme. NOK 8 million. kr. Thus, several would be covered by the scheme and firms with increasing research activity could make more use of the scheme. Both schemes are available to enterprises across the country. In addition to strengthening BIA and SkatteFUNN schemes, the government has a number of other measures to develop Norwegian business. We will actively use the tax system to provide better conditions for Norwegian business. The government reduces total taxes and taxes by a total of 7.3 billion. kr in 2014 and corrections that will make the Norwegian economy more growth-intensive will be prioritised. The government will also bet on infrastructure. In the 2014 budget, we refocused 250 million. from the regional policy funds for upgrading the county roads. The total effort to upgrade the county roads in 2014 is now 780 million. kr, and in addition, the appropriations for new investments, operation and maintenance of highways increased by 1,1 billion. kr. Administrative costs and unnecessary red tape in the Norwegian economy for competitiveness. Founders, business owners and employees will be allowed more time for value creation. We have therefore intensified our work on simplification. Simplification of legislation and increased digitisation of public services are intended to facilitate business life. Work on promoting business development and innovation across the country is a high priority for the government. Economic policy is far wider than that often associated with industrial policy instruments. It's the sum of the framework conditions that affect business, that are important to our future ability to value. Transport, research and improved framework conditions for business are some of the areas where the government has already taken action to strengthen growth in Norwegian business. Policy debates often focus on instruments and public support, but the most important thing for national and regional business is competitive framework conditions, good infrastructure and simple and comprehensible legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1822	Several ministers today have suggested that it is not about cutbacks, but about re-priorities — this minister too — and these re-priorities are regional means of development, which are then re-prioritized. For Sogn and Fjordane, this «reprioriteration» resulted in minus 11 million. kr. I want to bring forward another industry, travel, which is a typical nourishment for the whole country, where cities are doing relatively well all year round, while districts are struggling with profitability and all year round jobs. Solberg's government reduced the transfer to travel by 25 million. kr. It was one of the first negative measures. In addition, in today's Business yesterday, it was stated that the State will not participate in the financing of regional companies. This is contrary to what the Joint Committee said in December 2012. Why has the government changed its mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1829	I think the representative Heggø now goes into the trap that one looks at simple instruments that have been detached and fails to take on the fact that it is the overall framework conditions that really matter to Norwegian business. It means that you have order in the economy, it means something about the level of taxes and taxes you have, it means that you can do research and innovation – and that's where the government has prioritised it. Then I want to say that I was campaigning in North Norway, and I was very honest about how the Right wanted to give priority if we came into government, i.e. less to regional development funds and more money. The kind of priorities actually got applause in meeting business, because that's how important are actually some of the transport challenges we have, and so obstructing are bad roads if, for example, it's. are fish that are about to leave the country quickly. Time is money for the district industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1836	The health of Sogn and Fjordane in regional development media versus road media was minus 11 million. kr. That's the whole thing. You didn't answer what made one change from what a joint committee said, so you're going to have another chance to answer it. I also want to say that in the 14-day Question Time, I think it was, so the Minister of Industry said that she was against strategies, while at the same time notifying her that there would be a new strategy for travel. Can we expect the new strategy to have some concrete measures, as the Minister has now responded, or will it just be words?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1845	I am aware that there is work to be done on how to organise Norwegian travel life in the future and how to best profile Norway. It's a work that goes, and which I assume we're coming back to Stortinget with information about in a suitable way. But I want to say that what really matters to travel life is also these overall framework conditions. When I meet traveling life, they ask for better ways. When I meet traveling life, they ask for simplification. When I meet the travel community, they ask for a lower tax burden. So I think the removal of the inheritance tax, the relief of generational shifts, also in many small and medium-sized travel businesses, are actually the wishes and needs of travel life that they have expressed. But I can reassure the representative Heggø that we are going to come back to Stortinget, and the Stortinget will have every opportunity to discuss travel life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1854	Question 17 has been answered earlier, before question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1861	So the question is to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and it says this: ‘The budget for 2014 tightened the rules of leave, inter alia. by increasing the employer’s period from 10 to 20 days. Although the Council of State has recently made a legislative advance towards Nav, we are still hearing about frustration with the new legislation from many businesses, especially in District Norway. It should be noted that many district companies are critical of the new legislation and that the Council of State plans to reverse the deterioration of the permitting system, for example: in the revised national budget 2014?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1870	In his question, Andersen’s representative concerns two different aspects: the increase in the employer’s period from 10 to 20 days and the legislative precision towards Nav. In general, I would like to say that the rules of leave should at all times reflect the situation in the labour market. Changes in previous governments have also been decisive. I carefully monitor the predictability and correctness of the practice of the legislation. From 1 January of this year, the employer’s period of leave was increased to 20 days. Permitting rules mean that, at the level of popular interest, the State assumes the obligations of employees over a period of time. It is reasonable that employers' share of the costs of leave varies according to their business cycle. There are several factors involved in the assessment of the law on permitting. By permitting and securing a desired labour resource for the enterprise in anticipation of better times. On the other hand, they are permitted by their contract with the employer and therefore seek little other work. This helps to reduce the overall supply of work. An extension of the employer's period may result in enterprises instead of permitting labour to other enterprises that demand labour. At the same time, an employer who wishes to maintain his or her competent labour force may choose to do so through the obligation of pay. In cooperation with the LO and the NHO, last year, the Labour and Welfare Directorate reviewed the daily allowance on a permit basis in order to make it clearer and to ensure a consistent practice. However, it appeared that in some cases the establishment did not practise the legislation in line with the intentions. I have therefore established a new regulation, which the representative Andersen knows from a previous question in the Questionnaire, and I do not repeat the answer that I then gave, as it is well known. So the representative, Andersen, asks about what will come into the revised national budget. The representative of Andersen knows very well that before being revised, a State Council should or should address issues that come under review. What comes under review, the representative Andersen will get a good knowledge of when the revision is presented, just as it was when he himself was the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1885	Yes, it is absolutely right that this question concerns two aspects. I will be brief on the first relationship relating to the employer's period of pay, which has increased from 10 to 20 days. It's true, as the Council of State says, that one has previously changed on the number of days and on how long one can receive a daily allowance in relation to the economic cycle. But the new thing in this situation is that for the first time in history we have a government that tracks increased unemployment, but at the same time weakens the system of leave, and that is new. I am aware that the revision will come when the revision comes, so I will be pleased if the Council of State can confirm that he will look at developments in the labour market and the need to look at that part of the legislation again. So the second part of my question is about the follow-up to the clarification given by the Council of State to Nav, which was good, because we're still getting alarm messages, especially from District Norway, and especially related to the fishing industry, and it might look like there's still a tightened-up practice. That is what I would like to ask the Council of State to follow up on further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1892	As far as the last point is concerned, the Council of State also follows what is happening in the practice of the legislation, i.e. in retrospect of the clarification to Nav. Governments have also received feedback from some companies, and I am very happy to receive clear, clear feedback. Governments have also received feedback from the fisheries industry, where I know a few cases where assessments have been made that have not been good enough or desirable in view of that practice. It's taken up by the state council with the directorate. The Directorate has re-examined this with the administration, so that the general rule is – and must remain – that when the employer and the employee agree on leave, that is what needs to be followed and not an individual practice in relation to the individual on leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1897	That is an interpretation we agree on. Where that consensus is local, it shall be taken into account, as further specified by Eriksson's predecessors as State Council. When there are particular reasons to follow up on the fishing industry, there are actually several reasons for this. Firstly, the government proposed to weaken the particularly good system of the fishing industry. It was stopped in Stortinget, but some people might wonder whether it is being tightened up a little. The second is that we – as the Council of State clearly also – have received a particular number of enquiries from the fishing industry, and I am pleased that the Council of State will have a special eye on it, for some tightening has not been intended. But I can further stress to the Council of State that it looks as if there has been a particular criticism of that part of the fish processing that is further processing farmed products, and where questions have been asked about whether the crew of those companies is actually correct. In my opinion, it is not Nav's job to assess whether a company has the right, permanent staffing, so it is good if the Council of State wants to have an extra eye on it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1904	I can confirm to the representative Andersen that we are coming along, also with regard to that problem. We are following closely, and it is true that the decision of the Grand Duchy does not lead to any intensification of the fishing industry in this respect. I deal with the Storting decision, and it is important for me to make sure that we have the practice that we agree with the social partners. We follow up, so that it is done on the desired, the right way that the parties agree on. We keep following that, and we'll keep following that with the different industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1913	My question is: ‘The Government has declared that it wishes to cooperate in the proper functioning of the tripartite cooperation. The extension by the Stoltenberg II Government of the period of exemption from pay during the period of leave was the result of tripartite cooperation. The alternative had been cancellations in many cases. Workers and businesses in the districts, such as: has been particularly vulnerable in Buskerud. Does the Council of State consider that the tightening up of the rules of leave that governments have now introduced is a good example of the proper functioning of tripartite cooperation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1922	Permitting legislation shall balance the need for society to make effective use of the labour force and the ability of employers to free themselves from the obligation of pay in the event of unforeseen shortages of employment. The Permitting Code ensures that there is a cost distribution between the employer, the employee and the State in terms of social security in the context of temporary labour market difficulties. The legislation on permitting will therefore vary with the economic cycle. Only in the last 12 years have the rules on permitting been amended eight times. During the financial crisis, wages and salaries were reduced, and then increased again in 2012. The daily allowance period was also increased during the financial crisis, but was reduced again in 2012. During the financial crisis in 2009, there were almost 18 000 lay-offs. The volume has fallen fairly steadily over the next four to five years. In January this year the level was below 3000. I closely monitor developments in the labour market. I also receive a lot of input from single companies, outsourced workers and the social partners. We listen to the recordings and we'll consider taking action if we think it's necessary. At the same time, the government has also started a change in economic policy, inter alia. through tax reductions that we believe will benefit both businesses and jobs. In the government statement, we express our desire to cooperate in the proper functioning of the tripartite process – that is what the representative Christoffersen points to. The fact that we in Norway have a tradition of changing the rules of leave in line with the current labour market situation is a result of the authorities listening to the social partners when companies face a difficult situation. But the ongoing cooperation with the parties does not mean that it is always the way to agree on all the solutions, nor is it what is implicit in the cooperation with the parties, but that the different things are discussed in a good, tidy way. I would also like to remind the representative Christoffersen that the salary obligation was increased and the social security period also reduced from 1 January 2012. I can't see that that change was a special outcome of tripartite cooperation in the form of agreement with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1935	I thank you for the answer, but I want to pursue it a little further, because the Council of State says that the rules always follow the labour market. I can use my own state, Buskerud, as an example. So in Buskerud, Nav now expects more leave and more leave. In conversations with representatives of the trade union movement, I have been informed that the companies are now increasingly looking for redundancies, especially smaller companies that we often find in the districts. I wonder if the Council of State doesn't share that concern? I have a little extra question. The Council of State refers to tax reductions. Didn't the Council of State realize that, under the financial crisis, the Central Bureau of Statistics said that we could get 16 times as many jobs for public crowns directly invested in jobs compared to public crowns used for tax cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1946	As I said to the representative of Christoffersen, we are following developments in both small and large enterprises in the various counties. As I said in my reply, I also receive enquiries from companies, from posted workers and from organisations. What's the whole point of following developments is to consider – as the representative Christoffersen also says – going to a step, but that doesn't mean you've gone to that step. That's what we're continuously assessing in the situation. In fact, the situation in the labour market is such that it is a record low degree of permeability. It's also low leave. The availability is also expected to be stablely low beyond 2014. The last figures show a slight increase in the first part of 2014, but we're going to have a decrease again after the second half of 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1951	Thank you for that too. Then I want to angle it a little bit from the other side when we talk about tripartite cooperation. Minister of State Jan Tore Sanner said earlier today that this government is delivering what businesses want. Then my question is: What will this government's answer be to the owner of the Builders' Negotiator in Modum, who works with permanent employees, who have apprentices, who have everything on their care – everything is white – when, instead of leaving now, he says that with new market failures, he can no longer permit, but instead will have to cancel permanent employees and hire people as needed? He even says that his father would rotate in the grave if he had heard what he is now saying, but he sees himself having to start thinking in those paths. I wonder: will the government listen to this man and reduce the contractions, in other words, deliver this and other small businesses outside the press areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1960	In the case of the Building Nekker – I did not fully get the municipality with me, but it does not matter where it is located – that is exactly what is the point of following the development. As I say in my main answer: Should it turn out that you are going to the step, that the situation should change, yes, the government will continuously consider introducing measures – the necessary measures. However, no action can be taken in a situation that has not arisen. I deal with – and it has nothing to do with tripartite cooperation – that the labour market is changing and has changed. It's done it all the time – economic cycles go up and down – it'll do it in the future as well. Any government has adapted both the rules of permitment and the labour market policy following the cyclical shifts. So does this government. As far as tripartite cooperation is concerned, it is important for me to stress that good tripartite cooperation does not mean agreement on all issues, but it means good discussions with the social partners and tidy play in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1974	‘Norwegian police need good people with different life experiences. In the last issue of the journal Psychiatric Health, it is written about a young man who was denied admission to the high school of police because he had once had a depression in his life. The man is declared healthy by the doctor. Does the Council of State think it is wise to reject applicants with important life experience, and will the Council of State advise people who want to work in the police to visit the aid facility in order not to destroy their job opportunities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1981	It is not certain that this is so often happening, but I want to thank the representative for the question, because I think it is a good and very important question. Of course, the mention of the case in Psychiatric Health to which the representative refers also makes an impression on me. On a general basis, I can say that important life experience does not, of course, disqualify for admission to the Police College, and I will not recommend anyone not to use the auxiliaries when they need it. However, there are strict demands to become a police officer in terms of reputation and suitability. It is a separate admission student who takes a decision on the individual applications, and it is the board of police higher education who appoints this admission student who takes the specific decisions. The regulatory framework is based on the demanding challenges and pressures of both education and the police profession. Many of the tasks are demanding both physically and mentally, and in other years, students are going to be fully operational. Applicants who have received a refusal — it also appears in the article to which the requester refers — can apply again later and receive a new concrete assessment of the application. So it's not the case that a refusal applies forever. It shall be possible to experience difficulties in life and to be able to go further with opportunities open. In fact, sometimes even those forms of life experience and heavy experiences can make a better fit for service, for example: in the police or elsewhere, because one often learns a lot about man, about himself, and about others in such processes. I can also inform you that there is work on revising the current medical code for admission to the School of Police, and in this respect it is considered to replace it with a new admission requirement. The proposal shall focus on matters which are factual, necessary and proportionate in view of the applicant's own health, safety and feasibility of conducting the study at the Police College. In any case, all applications will continue to be evaluated individually. But as the questioner hears from the answer, I am concerned that tiring for a period of life should not automatically lead to that one not fit to be picked up at the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e1994	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's a positive answer, and it's clear that we share the starting point in the assessment of this question. I understand that it is limited how far into a single state council can go. It's not my intention either. What got a lot of interest in this case is the principle – that is, if a previous depression should be the reason you can't get involved in the Police College and serve as a police officer. Therefore, I could imagine just making sure that the Council of State will engage in this further. Is it the case that the Council of State wants to have direct contact with the School of Police regarding the design of the new legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2001	As I said, it is considered to have this in the form of regulations, and then it is the department that will have the lead for this regulation. Now it's in POD, and we're waiting for the recordings from there. I must also make it clear that it is the individual assessment that will serve as a basis. That means that depression can be a cause for not getting involved in the Police College on a general basis, but I share the questioner's concern that there should be some automatic in it – without necessarily saying that it is today, but it seems that it has had meaning in this particular case, without me being able to go into it more closely. But of course I will also be strongly involved in the regulatory work when the proposal from the POD comes to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2008	Then I understand that the Council of State will be concerned to ensure that there will be no general guidance, after the work on this regulation, in the direction that a previous depression can prevent absorption. That's very good. Then there is no need for any further follow-up beyond that it would have been interesting to hear what kind of timetable the Council of State has for working on the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2013	As far as I am aware, the regulatory work is in the final phase of the Police Directorate. We'll start that work when we get the position from the Police Directorate. I have to state that there will be no general indication that a previous depression will prevent the recording, but not the opposite – which one could hear from the conclusion of the representative Lightbaking. It shall be an individual assessment and there shall be relevant requirements for inclusion. One shall be assessed on the basis of suitability and fitness to perform future police service. I think it's a challenge in the current medical code that it might be too brutal in some areas, i.e. it's too square. But at the same time, the search for the Police College is big. There are a lot of very good candidates, and it's tough competition to get in. I hope it's still going to be, because it makes us get the best police officers, but that a previous depression itself should be exclusive, I think it's strange in a forward-looking, modern society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2024	I just want to make it clear first that after I sent the question to the dispatch office – in the event of a technical defect that they regret there – it has fallen out of the question, which means that the Council of State has not got the whole meaning of what I am asking for, unfortunately. I first became aware of this today. But I read the question and emphasize the word when I get there: ‘In the major cities, groups of violent risk supporters, or casuals, who have repeatedly created fights and dangerous situations, have operated in recent football seasons. The police have to spend a lot of resources trying to keep them in check and avoid anyone getting hurt. They have therefore accepted legislative proposals that allow those who are active in violent casualty environments to be denied residence at the stadium and in the city core in the context of risk struggles. Will the Council of State now, when facing a new season, follow up on these legislative proposals?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2033	On 5 February this year, the Ministry of Justice and Defence received a proposal from the Police Directorate for legislative change aimed at strengthening police response to security and orderly challenges at events, in particular in football matches. The proposal that has now been sent to the Department is the result of an internal consultation process in which police districts and Kripos were asked to assess the need to strengthen the basis for police law enforcement work on tribal violence and violent football supporters. The Police Directorate recommends that a better basis be given to the police in order to impose more extensive residence bans than is currently provided by the Police and Criminal Procedures Act. In concrete terms, an extension of Section 222(b) of the Criminal Procedure Act is proposed to strengthen the police's basis of jurisdiction. The proposed amendment of the law is now to be dealt with in the department. It's just received. We have a very powerful government and a powerful Ministry of Justice and Preparedness, but we have not completed this work in the period from 5 February. At the same time, I, together with the Minister of Culture, will shortly hold a meeting with the Norwegian Football Federation. It is important for us to hear their views on the proposed legislative change that has come, and to discuss other relevant measures to strengthen the work against crowds and violent supporters in advance of a new season. Close dialogue is important. We have a common interest and responsibility to ensure a secure framework around football events. I understand that there is already a good cooperation between the police and the football community, both with the Norwegian Football Association and with the clubs. I would like to stress that there is a national football information point, NFIP, for which Kripos is responsible. Kripos coordinates national intelligence work, in cooperation with police districts, and contacts with other countries and with Interpol. In addition, coordination meetings and dialogue with the Norwegian Football Association will be held. In addition to looking at new instruments, such as: the question of changes in the law that the representative of Bohemia addresses in the question, we also need to look at the possibilities we already have. Necessary police presence is important when such challenges arise. Equally important is the good, prevention of early interventions. Of course, getting ahead of problems should always be the ideal. In meetings with the Norwegian Football Federation, I look forward to discussing how we can actually prepare ourselves better before the season. We should have good assumptions, since we agree on the objective, namely that sport should not be subjected to violence and disorder of order within and outside the tribunal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2048	I thank the Council of State for a positive response. I would like to stress that the most, most football supporters are positive people who enjoy sports and who will be together. They are of all ages – men and women, boys and girls, children and young people, families. They deserve to be able to get to the football stadium in a safe environment and be able to feed themselves – and not be afraid of such events. The same applies to the volunteers who set up the football clubs as guards, as voluntary teams, to care for the audience. They also do not deserve to be exposed to risk. As I know, some of them have been threatened because they have kept the violent risk supporters in chess or away from stadium. For what I want to ask. It is quite right that there is a good cooperation between the sports and the police on this, but both the police and the sports, as I know it, want the sport to be less responsible, and society to take more responsibility through a change in law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2059	Of course, I fully agree with the representative of Bohemia – and I am very pleased – that all, most football supporters are real, tidy, positive and eager people. I registered yesterday during a debate on changes to the flag law that it is part of the same eager supporters in this room. The purpose of such a legislative change will be to enable the police to intervene to a greater extent than they can today, thus taking even greater responsibility than they do. I cannot conclude with the result of the work that is now being done in the department, but I feel that both the Norwegian Football Association and the police are in agreement with the purpose. It is important to have the close, good dialogue to ensure that we both exploit the potential we have in the current legislation and that we quickly get any legislative changes in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2066	I thank you for your answer. I was unfortunately not able to complete my whole question instead, so I'm going to do it now. I've seen this in close proximity. For example, when Lillestrøm played on Grorud last May, casual groups appeared, which are known from among others. Vålerenga, to make battles in an open area there. There was very good cooperation with the police, but great danger to the public and to serious incidents. So this is something that it's urgent to move on before a new season. There has been a very close cooperation with those who work on this in sport, that you need a law change. The idea is that society should take a greater part in the responsibility – a smaller part of the responsibility is placed on the voluntary guards – and have a greater chance of prevention. The legislative proposal put forward is – as the Council of State indicated – preventive. This could prevent those who have been active on several occasions in such violence episodes from being subjected to more extensive bans on getting to the stadiums and areas around them — for example. a Sunday it's played games.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2075	State Council Anundsen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2078	The bill is the claim. I wonder, when can the Council of State expect to bring it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2083	State Council Anundsen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2086	That was as far as representative Bohemia came to his question!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2091	Yes, I have a lot to say!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2097	As I said, we got this over to the department on February 5. Work is in progress. We are in close dialogue with both the Ministry of Culture, the Norwegian Football Federation and the Police Directorate. The intention is that this should be effective as soon as possible. At the same time, this has to be done through the ordinary processes, as a legislative change has to. I will come back to the conclusions when they are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2102	Question 22 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2109	‘The government wants to open up several private schools, and there is reason to fear the decentralised school structure we have in secondary education. School groups have previously applied to set up private schools in cities, which will draw students and resources from the common school. In Telemark, for example, it could mean that the student base in West Telemark is too thin and schools can be closed down. How will the Council of State ensure a decentralised secondary school structure when it is opened up to several private schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2116	Let me first say that in the last eight years there have been very many schools in Norway. A lot of cross-country schools have disappeared. Many of them have recovered as in-house schools or private schools. It was something that former knowledge minister Kristin Halvorsen was confronted with several times, why so many schools were gone. In our common home state, Telemark, there's a discussion about the school structure. It's a discussion that comes from the fact that it's the county municipality that owns and runs the secondary schools. When there was a change of power in the Telemark County Municipality and a red-green coalition came in, it became, among other things. a major discussion on the future of the schools in West Telemark. I think it's a reasonable starting point that the county councils, when they own the schools, also determine their local school structure. I cannot give any guarantee for any school in Norway, except to say that it is the county councils and municipalities that will decide. So to the question of fresh oils. Under the private school law in force, the county council has the right to comment in connection with an application for approval of private school in the county. That opinion shall include, inter alia, the following: the consistency with the statutory obligation of county authorities to provide school places to meet the training objective. The government statement, which states – as the representative Vågslid rightly points out – that a new law on free schooling is required, also states that the same way as today is to be taken into account for local recordings, both from the county and from the municipality. A relevant objection from a county municipality would be if the establishment of a new school would have very significant consequences for the school offer. Again: As I said, it is the county that has a primary responsibility for its local offerings. I have to hope that the schools that – we have in Telemark, I was saying – are in Telemark, are so good that the students want to go there because there are good schools, and not just because there are no alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2131	I thank the Council of State for your answer. When Kristin Clemet was Minister of Education, there were also applications to Telemark County to establish commercial, private secondary schools. At that time, Telemark County said very clearly that one did not want this. Nevertheless, the Telemark County Council wanted to be run over by the Minister of Education, and the applications were approved. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: will he guarantee that a practice in which central authorities run above the regional level, which is the school owner, will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2138	First of all, it's certainly not right that under Kristin Clement it was approved for commercial schools, because it wasn't allowed to. At least state aid does not go to commercial schools. The dividend ban in today's law, which was also practised in the previous eight years, is exactly the same dividend ban that was when the Right was last in government. The rules governing the right of objection and the right to be heard by the county are also similar to those of today. The difference in law when the Right was sitting, and the law when the Red-Green government was sitting, is not about the prohibition of dividends. That's equal to that. Nor is it a question of whether the municipalities and county councils should be entitled to object. That's equal to that. It is simply about the purpose of the schools. We're going to keep an opportunity for the county councils. Just as the Red-Green Government approved 10,000 places in fresh-oil, so in the future...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2147	Lene Vågslid, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2150	Thank you again for your answer. The state council and I both come from Telemark and know the fact that the students in Telemark are going down. That is why, quite rightly, the Council of State says, there have been discussions about the school offering. Is the Council agreed with me that with the background that there is a negative pupils' development in Telemark, it will be impossible to open up to the establishment of commercial secondary schools without there being any threat of existing schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2157	I fully agree that it will be impossible to open up commercial secondary schools. I do not want commercial secondary schools, nor does the government want them. Therefore, the dividend prohibition is established. It is tempting to say that the question has to be returned, because there were 68 high schools that were approved and put into service for the eight years under the red-green ones, among others. a private high-school sports gym in Telemark. I believe that you also have to have the same logic with a new law on free schooling. There should be the possibility of looking at local conditions, and weight should be added, but it cannot be said to stop absolutely all new start-ups of private schools just because the number of students goes down. Neither have the red-greens in the previous eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2166	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘A number of private schools have been required to repay public aid following a breach of State aid law. How will the Council of States ensure that this is actually implemented in full and in a way that ensures that it does not give the impression that jux pays off?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2175	Let me just first say that jux shouldn't pay off – that's very important. I agree with the premise on the question to the representative Giske. I must also stress that in the summer of 2012, the Education Directorate started a comprehensive supervision of the Akademiet schools and Bergen Private Gymnas. In the light of that surveillance, a total recovery decision of 12,7 million has been taken. which should not have benefited the students. That decision has been appealed against and the Ministry is the Board of Appeal. That is why I cannot go into the specific issues now. But I can say something in general, and the first is that I agree that it is a good principle that you should not have so-called commercial incubators. I believe that the dividend ban is sensible, and I believe that it should be enforced and practised strictly. Of course, it can be argued that when someone is taken to break the law, it indicates that enforcement works, that the law is clear, and that it is possible to accept those who do not follow it. At the same time, however, I believe that it is important that the legislation is also practised more stringently, and will look at the possibility of doing so, i.e. enforcing the legislation better and clearer. We have also announced that we will return to Stortinget with a new law on free schooling, for private schools that receive state support. In it, we will also consider whether more stringent sanctions are needed than at present in some areas. I am fully aware that this is a relevant and important discussion, and there we are also open to looking at tightening up the legislation compared to the practice that has been in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2184	First of all, these experiences show that there are almost no limits to the creativity of some schools to getting money out of the system. It is probably so – as far as I have an overview – that all the schools that received approval and got started in the autumn of 2005 under Clement have somehow been taken for breach of State aid law. Of course, the concern is that with the liberalisation planned by the government — first with a discretionary paragraph, then with the removal of private schools and a general opening — the scope of this could be much greater. The more important it is that a solid example is set in these cases that are now being dealt with. That's what I want to confirm, without going into the procedure itself: that you clearly want to show that this kind of behaviour does not pay and is being punished brutally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2189	Punishment brutally – I don't know if I can promise. But without going into the matters where the department is the appeal body, I believe, as a very general principle, that the law is clear to the sun. The state grant is to go to the students and benefit the students. There's no way to make dividends. Under the law of free school with which the red-greens also fell, it is for example. the possibility of setting up and having other companies having the same owner, but in that case there shall be a market price between them. It is not possible to subsidise its own business and in this way try to circumvent the dividend rules. I believe that the consequences of their abuse should be clear and clear. As I said, we also need to assess whether the legislation should be tightened up, for example. should have implications for future creations and applications from the same actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2194	I don't think that's the law there's anything wrong with it, but when private operators clearly have financial profits as their overall goal – it's right that commercial players have it, I have been Minister of Industry myself and I'm very attached to private companies with profits – it's inappropriate when the main funding or the total funding is essentially State aid. It takes a lot of control and opens up too much creativity. When it is then taken, it opens up to the ministry a comprehensive legal process of review, ultimately also possible legal proceedings, and a great deal of legal expertise that is rented out on a private basis. Maybe you want a deal, to get the matter out of the world. Can the Council of States ensure that no such simplified settlements will be provided in these cases and that these matters are fully pursued? That's what's my main concern today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2199	Now the representative asked the question in such a way that it is impossible to answer without going into the individual cases. But I've said very clearly what I think is the starting point, that the consequences of breaking the rules, and the rules, in my opinion, are more solar. I am enough – with the risk of getting to the left of Trond Giske – not quite sure that there can also be weaknesses in the legislation that can be worth looking at further. For example, the problem is not that private schools are paying dividends — it is prohibited and will continue to be banned under this government. The problem is that according to the law that the red-greens fell after for eight years, there is also reason for example. to set up companies with the same owner, which allows one to operate a type of internal invoice. That's where most of the cases have arisen. It is not certain that it is possible to solve in a simple hand turn and in a practical way, but it is definitely worth looking at.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2204	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-26.ana.ud2012e2217	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
