ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e26	The representative, Dag Terje Andersen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e29	On behalf of the representatives of Anette Trettebergstuen, Lise Christoffersen, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, Helga Pedersen, Kari Henriksen, Arild Grande and myself, I would like to present – we think it is necessary – a proposal for the development of an action plan on social dumping and crime at work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e53	Norway has an economy that gives us great opportunities. When we deal with the state budget, we can think of the contrast with other countries that do not have budgets that are growing and giving freedom of action but that rather have to implement deep cuts. The Labour Party will present its proposal for a budget in which we will prioritise investment for the benefit of the community: more teachers, treatment more in hospitals and more in public transport. In the 2015 draft budget, we recognise the characteristics of the budget we are in, for 2014: government elections, which have priority No. 1 to use the freedom of action for tax cuts. For the 2014 budget, it was that of the extra money found by the government in the oil fund and through some priorities, ten times more went to tax cuts than to the police, hospitals and teachers. In this budget, the richest five percent get half of the tax cuts. The one percent richest gets more in tax cuts than the whole increase in hospitals. This, I think, is an unhealthy and immature way of solving the problems of society, and it also contrasts with some of the cuts that are necessary to make this account go up. Now the government has turned the sick pay bill around, but still much remains, for example, cut off the unemployed and cut the transitional benefit for lone dependants. Nor is there any proposal to change the law of the permit in a situation where we see more lay-offs and redundancies, especially in the West. By getting less money and poorer arrangements, the unemployed must be more motivated to get work, according to the government. How can it be that those who have much are motivated by more, while those who have little are motivated by less?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e64	This government has put forward a proposal for a government budget that is both adapted to the economic situation in Norway and that equips us, not least, for the future we are to enter into. One of the most important things we have to do in the years to come is to assume that we are faced with two important changes that are related. One is the shift from an oil economy where oil activity has helped to increase growth earlier every year, that in the future it will be a contributor, but not so much to growth, and the other is that it will do so in a green way and thus contribute to new economic growth. That is why this budget is marked by a commitment in the areas that ensure that we have more jobs in the future. We're getting jobs in new areas. We contribute with innovation, innovation, more infrastructure investment and better economic framework conditions for business, which means that the willingness to invest to realise new business in the years to come will be increased. It has been an important priority for us, while at the same time solving important problems today. Some of the important tasks that the draft budget we have presented solves are that it contributes to more patient treatment in health care, it contributes to a greater focus on drugs and mental health. And it helps in several areas to make things better for those who fall through the safety net, for example. that those who have read and write problems and are being deprived of their home PC will get the PC back. Many children and young people will then have better follow-up and better access to mastering school in the future. I believe that one of the most important things we do is to rust Norway for the future. Because we obviously do not – when we hear the intervention of the representative Gahr Støre – take into account in the political debate the great changes that this country is facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e75	I did not feel that I received an answer to the question, but let me go further. The Prime Minister has written a book once that was about people and not billions. Now billions are going out of this budget, and it's being financed through the sum of millions. Today we could read about what I recognized from a budget I was responsible for earlier, namely that the small fissure layer between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Health of the Cultural Spa, which has given much joy around the country, is being cut. It is reacted to by many municipalities because the municipalities have statutory duties, and when such cuts come, the money that the municipalities automatically have is not. The head of the Health Committee says that this must be directed against the municipalities. You can discuss whether the municipalities are the right address for the harm when the cuts come from the government. The different government cuts have been so far justified that they can lead to people working more, tax cuts being more important, or cuts helping to work more effectively. What reasons has the Prime Minister stressed in this case, which means a lot to older people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e86	We have stressed that we should raise the quality – and we do so in this budget – in particular. dementia care and other parts of care. It's about raising the quality through those who are there every day. It's about looking at the good examples, like we do. have looked at the Red Cross Hospital in Bergen, where those who work there use music every day – not those who come to visit once a month to show something, but those who are there every day to stimulate. It's through them we really have to raise the quality of care. It is those who work in the sector, who should have the means to stimulate the senses of those who are demented and who fall outside. It is a much more important measure of quality. Therefore, this government is placing more emphasis on quality measures in dementia care and other care for the elderly by investing in the sector’s employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e91	Follow-up questions are given – first from Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e94	As the representative Gahr Støre was concerned with his main question, this government's clear budget profile is: more to those who have the most. Growth-promoting tax relief is the rhetoric of the Right when it comes to the most redistributive tax we have. But the government's own national budget says: ‘There is no basis for budgeting with dynamic effects in 2015 of the proposals for tax changes.’ The national budget further states: «Since the overall functioning of the capital markets in Norway, the tax on wealth is likely to affect savings in the first place.» If we go to the country's leading researchers in the field, they say: ‘Most economists do not believe that the relief of property taxes gives rise to any particular growth. It is very difficult to quantify the effects of cutting taxes on wealth, and then there are some theoretical reasoning left.’ This is what Jarle Møen says at the Norwegian School of Commerce, NHH. Why does the Prime Minister think that a cut in the wealth tax is so important that it should be the government's sun-clearest single effort in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e114	I believe that introducing and increasing a criminal tax on Norwegian ownership, as the previous government did, helps to curb the development of long-term investment in Norwegian enterprises. I record that in other countries that have removed the property tax, for example. in our neighbouring country Sweden, social democrats believe that there is an important reason why they have got better and more investment. I record that social democrats in Norway do not think it is. But I want to stress: the fact that we can't always figure out the same year that the budget comes – because dynamic effects don't mean that it doesn't have any effects – just means that we can't figure out less of the proceeds this year, while we might get long-term effects of it. I mean that when we, for example, reading the article that was written by a founder in the evening post a few days ago about why he believes Facebook could never be created in Norway, because of the wealth tax, it should be a crossroads for a country that is going into a major transformation process: we are going to create the new jobs, we are going to have a greener economy, we are going to help someone do it, and if start-ups get bigger problems, it is a problem for Future Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e121	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e124	The Prime Minister said it was about getting ready for the future. With regard to the use of oil money, the Prime Minister is the one who is often the most concerned — not always how much is used, but how they are used, and that they are to be used for knowledge, transport and tax relief, in line with what was the intention of the action rule. We've recorded that tax relief seems to be successful, at least in the draft budget, and it's also a plus on transportation. What I'm a little surprised about is what you read in the government's own draft budget on knowledge. It says in white that the share used for knowledge has fallen from 7.7 pst. to 7.3 pst. of the total budget space for action. So my question is, is the government and government parties ready for negotiations that can raise the knowledge part of the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e132	I can confirm that we are in order to raise the level of knowledge, both in this budget and in the years to come, but it is thus a significant increase in the knowledge effort in the years to come: we have 4.2 pst. growth in research next year. For the last four years, we have had an average of about 2 pst. real growth in research. It's a big boost. We're moving well forward on many of the single indicators -- we've now reached the top of 1 billion. kr in the continuing training of teachers. Then it's true that we make a larger room for action, including: to fulfill an ambitious transport package, which we all agreed on in Stortinget. And some of us, including the representative here, I think, agreed that we should spend even a little bit more on parts of the transport sector in the years to come. This is a big and concrete promise, but it's a solid commitment to knowledge. If you go in and look at the growth in the individual areas, it's good. But we're going to negotiate, so we're ready to see what demands come up in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e139	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e142	For industry, too, there is a distortion in this budget. In Norway, most enterprises are small. I noticed that the government chose to raise the VAT registration limit from 50 000 to 150 000 kroner. This is presented as a simplification measure. In fact, it's a tax tightening. It is an attack on entrepreneurs and self-employed people, who will not be able to benefit from a refund of VAT until the turnover reaches NOK 150 000. This saves the state for 125 million. kr, or in other words: founders and small entrepreneurs lose 125 million. kr. Some people get out positive, but those who get out negative, are probably going to get even worse than 125 million. kr. How does the government view this as part of a forward-looking industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e149	I believe that raising this rate is a simplification for many of those who are doing some activity, but who then do not want to do the reporting work that is related to having to submit tasks in order to get reimbursement. It makes it easier for those who have little activity, that's why we've put it in. It also simplifies systems and follow-up in the public sector. That means that we can reduce the control and follow-up of all the smallest companies. There is mainly one group saying that there is a challenge to this, and there are sheep farmers in the West. I note that today they have a more favourable arrangement for this. Otherwise, I believe that when you have NOK 150 000 on the market, it might be even better to drop some of the paperwork you have to do in order to be part of the VAT system than to get some VAT dollars back.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e156	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e159	In his New Year's speech, the Prime Minister said that knowledge is the new oil. The budget proposal she has submitted is a budget in which knowledge lags behind in the struggle for the large crowns, where the only major effort at school is a continuation of the continuing training promise that the previous government began, and where the modest increase in research was received by the Swedish Research Association with a question: Should we not build the knowledge society? This is a budget for tax cuts, not for knowledge. This is a budget for a different society rather than a knowledge society. We have to assume that what a government spends most is what the government thinks is most important. In this budget, money is spent many times as much on reducing wealth taxes as on knowledge. Is it that lower taxes on wealth are the new oil, and why does the government spend so much more on tax relief than on knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e166	The new oil concerns many different knowledge establishments. Those companies need the knowledge as a base. That's why we're raising the research by 4.2 pst, as opposed to the last four years, where it's been 2 pst. real growth. It is possible that a representative of the former government thinks we are small-minded. If we're bad at this, I'd like to hear a description of his own average bets in the last four years. The second shift that new businesses need is the framework conditions that allow them to grow larger. In order to achieve this transition, they also need good framework conditions in the tax system, and they need the possibility of innovation and innovation money as they grow – such as the BIA funds and the TaxFUNN scheme. All these are bets in this budget. The sum of it contributes to knowledge becoming our new oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e173	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e176	The state budget is up to 1 200 billion. kr. It gives Norway possibilities we've never had before, and then it's important that we see a good health with a good social profile. The Christian People's Party has been involved in a bad reform that will make it easier to be lazy and fight back to work. At the same time, we need to be aware that many performers will be completely incapable of working. They've had a legitimate disability. It is therefore with great disappointment that the Christian People’s Party records that the government is cutting the need - tested child supplement for disability. We now experience that the family tells them that they must sell the house and cannot afford to give the child an upbringing that other children in Norway get. This is a targeted action that helps those who need it the most. The NOVA researchers Jon Ivar Elstad and Kari Stefansen have provided information that shows a serious link between the children's experience of support and help and the family's financial situation. This means that parents' ability to provide support and care for their children becomes very weak in the weak economy, understandable enough because of great financial turmoil in the family. We know that children of disabled people have a more difficult starting point than others. The social position is inherited, and such a cut makes the starting point for the children even harder. We have listened to the government answer that work is the solution. But I want to challenge the Prime Minister when it comes to the situation of poor parents who don't have the ability to work. Isn't this just a severe setback for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e189	I want to stress that what we are doing in this budget is two things. First of all, with regard to the large misappropriation adopted by a unanimous increase in 2011, it has some quite significant consequences for those who have high interest rates, and therefore this government has said that we cannot implement it as proposed by the previous government. We have to make the transition softer, and that's why we're putting more money on the table to help those who are hit hardest in the transition to a new misguided reform. The second is to make a new assessment, which I have also registered in the 2011 proposal from the red-green government, of the issue of the children's supplement. We have done so, including: based on the recommendation of the Brochmann Committee. And yes, it's important in the future to make sure that children have fewer challenges that the family has poor finances, but we have to find other means than to solve it through the social security system. What we've done is we've created a stencil solution for all children. Let me give you an example: a single person in low-income jobs – a little over 300,000 kroner, which is among the lowest full-time income in Norway – who has four children, would be able to lose 72 000 kroner with the system that would apply before we looked at the children's supplement by going from working 40 pst. to work 100 pst. This is an effective barrier to being full-time at work. The challenge is that we can't separate those groups that absolutely cannot work, but if the work line is to be implemented, we don't have to make it extra beneficial not to take out the work skills you have or to get back to work – and that makes the child supplement today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e198	I hear the prime minister say we can't separate those groups. And so we see that what the government is now proposing is a significant saving measure directed at some of the most vulnerable groups in our society. There is a saving measure of more than half a billion dollars – up to 590 million. kr. Prime Minister Solberg and I were in the same government in 2005. That time, then, Prime Minister Bondevik said that what we did too little was for the poor families of our children in our country. Now we have had eight years of red-green government, which has failed to solve the challenge, we have experienced several poor families of children, and what we see with the proposal that lies here, is that in 2017 we will have even more poor families of children. Does the Prime Minister believe that we are able to reduce the number of poor families with this measure that the government is now introducing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e208	The most important way to reduce the number of poor children is to ensure that their parents are in work. It's the most important part to get it done, and that's why we have to have systems that enable those who can work to get to work, we don't have to have systems that prevent them. In this budget, we are doing more things outside the social security system to improve the situation for those with the greatest financial challenges and children. We make a scheme to differentiate the nursery prices from August next year, we make a scheme where those who go to high school and have parents with low income get higher scholarships, against reducing it for those who have parents with higher income. So we've focused on several of the measures that are outside the social security system. It's hard to do these things. I get that. They're pretty heartbreaking, part of the stories we see. But the big question at the end is, if we want to do something about child poverty, we actually have to use what we know works. In fact, the workline, ensuring that people are at work, motivated to be at work, is the most important thing to reduce the number of poor children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e217	There will be follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e220	The Prime Minister is talking about you doing something about the kindergarten rates. Well, I don't have teenage children, but it seems to me that teenage children are quite expensive in operation as well, so for those who don't get lower kindergarten rates, losing the baby supplement is pretty hard. The Christian People's Party fully agrees with the Prime Minister that one of the most important measures to help poor children's families is to get more in work, and therefore we are going to hit hard on that instead of cutting in the number of places of action to help people get out of work, we are going to try to increase the number of places of action. But what my main question to my party leader was, is what we do with those who fall completely outside, those who can't work. How can we help them even more? When the government parties were in opposition, we together promoted a proposal for a representative on measures for families with children, and in the cooperation agreement we wrote: ‘Children growing up in poor families in Norway shall be given more equivalent opportunities.’ I wonder when the follow-up of the representative proposal will come to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e232	It is stated in the budget that we will present an action plan on child poverty in the context of the revised national budget in 2015. There are also individual measures in this budget, including: some who meet the challenge of teenage children. When one significantly increases the grant rate in secondary school for those who have parents with low incomes, one meets the exact same group that feels that the child supplement will be different in the future. It is also important to say that the most important job we have to do is to prevent so many people from being dissatisfied. It has a lot to do with what action system we have, and we need to look not only at the number but also at the quality of those measures. It has to do with how we handle drug care in Norway. Increasing the activity of care services will help to reduce this. The fact that we are stimulating and working extra with regard to mental health protection, a priority area that the government has placed high on the agenda, and where we have said that next year we will introduce free treatment choices precisely for these two perhaps weakest groups, helps to break the circle that over time causes people to fall outside and that children live in poor families to a greater degree.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e239	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e242	The cut in the children's supplement is obviously such a bad thing for the government that it has always had to hide behind what the red-green government has assessed. Now the question from the representative Hareide indicates that the government will have problems getting that matter through in Stortinget, and nothing would have pleased to sign more. But I want to go back to the matter we dealt with in Stortinget. You can see in the option: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party and the Right, agree to the continuation of today’s need-tested child allowance.’; Can the Prime Minister confirm that this is a correct quote? The rest of the note reads: ‘The majority note that this is a point to come back to in the implementation of the Brochmann Committee.’ That assessment has now been made by the Workers' Party. I wonder if the Prime Minister can say where it says that the Labour Party has changed its position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e261	The proposal from the red-green government states that the red-green government will come back to the assessment of changes to the children's supplement to deal with the Brochmann Committee's setting. This means that at the time of the reform, no changes were made to the child supplement, but it was not at any time that the Labour Party was opposed to making changes to the child supplement. Former Prime Minister Stoltenberg also pointed out that this was an important reform, and that we had to get back to these issues. Former Minister of Labour Bjurstrøm also gave clear, clear messages in the media that the child supplement was one of the areas that contributed to the difficulty of working. I understand that the Working Party seems that the working line is difficult to implement – ensuring it has been difficult for every step we have taken. What I'm a little surprised about, is that the Workers' Party now seems to have gone away from the line of work on these important issues, gone from arguing that it will pay to work, and gone away from saying that we need measures other than those that are in the social security system, to combat child poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e268	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e271	There is, of course, a clear profile in this budget. The 590-million child-plugin savings. kr is similar to what you give in terms of relief in the top tax, and that says a little about what the government's priorities are. At the same time, this is done in a number of areas, and it is done in a slightly different way: either raising the threshold when you can get support, making the scheme a structured one, or avoiding adjusting for price increases. The sum of what you choose to do in this way in the case of nonsocial cuts is quite burdensome. The children's supplement has been mentioned here. We can also mention a number of schemes for single carers, aids, for example: in the case of disabled persons and tombs, to name a few. My question to the Prime Minister is simply: when all these measures are put on top of each other, does the Prime Minister not see that, in sum, there will be a very unfortunate social profile and that a number of measures will also burden municipalities to a greater extent than before in the case of the social assistance budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e280	There is not one additional penny in the budget for the next year of the changes made with the children's supplement, so linking this with what is done at the entry point for top taxes or other items is a little sought after. It is therefore only in 2019 that this will have full effect – with the proposed transitional regime. I want to say that I am recording what the Center Party says, but I have also read the Central Party party program. It states that it is essential for the maintenance of the working line that no one should be able to receive more welfare benefits than they could have expected to serve as employees. That's what this discussion is about. Or, for example,At the time of the impending reform, the then Social Policy Spokesman of the Senterpartiet, Geir Pollestad, announced a rematch on the child supplement and referred to the recent report of the Brochmann Committee, which included: document how some families serve more in social security than in work. Pollestad said: ‘The debate on the defunctory arrangement has not been decided on forever. This also applies to the issue of the design of the child supplements.’ This is difficult to implement, and it is difficult to meet the single examples. I understand that there are many who feel uncertainty both for what we have agreed on, for the conversion of disability and for the new arrangements. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e292	That's when the time is up, including for the Prime Minister. André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e298	The government cuts in the childcare facilities for children in reception and in the necessary health care for asylum seekers, it reduces support for residents in reception who themselves do not have money for living, it cuts the number of places for lone minor asylum seekers, and not least in language training for immigrants – all in a comprehensive budget. We have 78,200 poor children in Norway. About half of them have an immigration background. Does the Prime Minister think we're getting more or less poor kids by implementing these cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e305	I believe that the most important thing we do is to ensure that those who have been asylum seekers and have been accommodated are to have a faster settlement. The government has a lot of work to do. That is why we also contributed higher subsidies to municipalities last year – to ensure that we would get more housing, so that we could start our lives in a municipality. That's the most important thing we do, so we actually prioritise that work very high. When, for example: on the issue of fewer places for single minors, it is primarily an estimate. If the lone minor comes, you have to give them an offer, and then you increase the offer. Luckily, we've seen that there has been a decrease in the number of people who are coming in the past. You'll need less space. We cannot maintain a system in which we have to pay for places in which we do not have asylum seekers, just because we expect more. We increase capacity when it is needed, and we reduce capacity when there is less need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e312	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e315	There is no doubt that the measures proposed by the government lead to more acute child poverty. The Prime Minister says she's busy with the line of work. One of the most important measures to get single carers into work is the transitional benefit. Then you can train and qualify for three years while you have a safe income, and the kids don't have to be afraid that they don't have any place to live tomorrow. That system works so it wears out. People come to work, and you can qualify for a job that has such a high salary – when you can spend three years – that you can support your family. But what does the government do with this? Yes, they cut two years of this arrangement. Can the Prime Minister explain how this will work in the short term with regard to poor children? How many of these parents will get a job when you take away this opportunity to qualify for a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e324	There is no doubt that there is a difference between the relationship of the Right, the Government and the SV to the working line. In almost all reforms – except when SV sat in the red-green government – where changes to the working line arrangements have been made, SV has been opposed. That was also the time you went from a ten-year transitional benefit to a three-year transitional benefit. It is one of the most successful reforms we have made for the working line and to prevent children from becoming poor. We believe that one year’s transition process is enough in such a situation, with the possibility for those who have particularly ill children – acutely or longer – and with special conditions in the scheme. Then it's getting a transitional benefit one year, so you can surround yourself and move on, important. And so we have other arrangements, for example. loan fund schemes where you can apply to participate in studies and other activities. We believe that those arrangements are good enough for those who need them to get help. But we believe that this is important, that after one year you have had time to change your life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e331	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e334	Good business conditions are important. One of the proposals in the State budget is to raise the VAT limit for online commerce from NOK 200 to NOK 500. It may seem negligible, but in reality this is a proposal that significantly impairs the competitiveness of Norwegian trade in goods. All Norwegian shops sell between 200 kroner and 500 kroner, in fact they will be 25 pst. more expensive than the foreign online shops can offer. The industry, industry and the NHO have strongly warned against the proposed scheme and have said that it could mean deflagging businesses and the closure of jobs in Norway. The centre party takes a positive view of online commerce – and we are followers of simplification – but competition must take place on equal terms. In this case, the government chose a line that makes it more difficult for Norwegian businesses. Complete.no says directly that this means that they have to move their business to Sweden, which may mean that 200 jobs disappear. All Norwegian online shops are in reality in the same situation, but these are also common shops – the retail trade around the whole country – sports shops, perfumeries, electronics shops and toy shops, to name a few. My question to the Prime Minister is simply: Why did the government with open eyes choose to weaken Norwegian goods and Norwegian online shops by imposing such a significant competitive disadvantage on them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e343	This is a consumer-oriented measure, which makes it easier for many of those who want to buy from abroad. Some do so in competition with Norwegian business, others do so because they buy goods from abroad that are not so easily available in Norway. I hear there are large numbers that are calculated. I don't think there's any evidence that these numbers are going to vote. It's important to remember that what we're proposing is to increase by 50 kroner, including shipping and fees. In practice, this means that there are 125 kroner in VAT for most packages that make up the difference — according to current charging rules. That makes the sum, with what we include, less -- when both shipping and charges are part of this. I think it is great that there are more parties than the government parties that are concerned with non-discrimination of Norwegian businessmen. I had hoped that the discussion we had about, for example. property taxes, had the same mark. Property tax is a special penal tax on Norwegian-owned jobs, which affects the long-term private capital of Norway and contributes to significantly more uncertainty for many jobs and significantly more focus on short-term investments instead of on long-term investments. This is a balance between the conditions for traders, of course, and the conditions for consumers. I don't think the consequences are as big as the business community says. There are many consumers who think this is good. This is something that many parties have promised. We as a party think it's good to implement what we promise in a election. I also think that is important given the status of politicians: not just to turn around every time other arguments come on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e354	I feel that the Prime Minister is actually trying to minimize the matter a little bit, at least in relation to what business means. The head of the NHO, Kristin Forest Lund, has warned strongly against the proposal. She says, ‘It’s very stupid to use taxpayers’ money to favor foreign enterprises.’ She goes on to say that you might as well stand on the Gardermo and distribute "a hundredth". I think it's important that someone takes the question very seriously. That's what the right has done in the past. A year ago, in September 2013, the Right said that this was a problem with regard to the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Tore Vamraak, fiscal adviser, stated: ‘Such increase’ – of the limit, i.e. up to NOK 500 or NOK 1000 – ‘will change the ‘tariff-free limit’ from being a simplification measure to become a discrimination against Norwegian businesses’. That is quite precisely what will happen if such a proposal is adopted. When the Right a year ago thought that this could weaken competitiveness, what has changed until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e371	What changed was the question of what we – and many other parties in Stortinget – had been on, that is to say that we were going to go up to NOK 1000. It went right away before the 2013 elections. We said we should raise the limit, but we didn't say we should go up to NOK 1,000, as before. 1000 kroner would be a pretty high jump. What we're doing now is adding cargo and fees. We're increasing it to 500 kroner in total, which is a significantly more moderate change than the proposal that Tore Vamraak commented on, and on which the Right did not go to elections. We then thought that this would mean too much change for Norwegian business. There is a balance between consumer considerations and contributing to more competition, such as: as regards trade in goods and retail trade in Norway. There are some people who believe that there is a lot of concentration around these areas — there may be a need for some competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e380	Follow-up questions are given – first Geir Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e384	I think the Prime Minister is taking Norwegian jobs very easily, and I am reacting to some of the arguments that are being used, when a serious person is standing here and claiming that to some extent this is about goods that are not in Norway, that is what online commerce is all about. No, this case is about goods sold from Norway being subject to VAT, while goods sold from abroad are exempt from VAT. It's distorting. Work has been conservatively estimated that as many as 10,000 jobs can be found. The NHO strongly warns. This is a matter on which the business community has not been given its opinion, and then my question is to the Council of State: When one hears the reactions of the business community and one hears how woolly the Prime Minister's own argument is, isn't it time to put a foot in the ground and allow business to express its opinion on this, through a proper hearing, before one makes such a dramatic change?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e391	Erna Solberg is still Prime Minister, the President must remind the representative of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e394	I believe that one of the fine things about the fact that we have a minority government – although a prime minister will always want a majority government – is that the hearings that are now taking place in the Stortinge will be quite real, it will be possible to present all his views, and finally, the Stortinge will take a decision on this. As a government, we have proposed what we actually promised the voters – to increase this limit. We've done that, and including shipping and fees, which means that it's not 500 kroner, it's probably going to be an increase of about 150 kroner compared to today's system. We do it because we think it's also a simplification, and we take into account the strong consumer interests and consumer desires to do this in a simpler way. Sometimes in our society we have to weigh consumer and business interests against each other, and then consumers sometimes have to win. In this case, they have won.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e401	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e404	There has been strong criticism from both the NHO and the Working Party, as has been said earlier here, but also from the Right-wing rapporteur in Sandefjord today in today's business life. I experience this case in a number of similar cases and changes that the government has made within the framework of business, which are not knowledge-based enough because they have not been investigated enough. The Prime Minister was in charge of the property tax. Stein Erik Hagen is the largest owner in Complete.no. The government spends billions on strengthening his private economy and others in that club, while the conditions for the businesses he owns are raging. How can the government present a proposal that in practice means shifting shopping workplaces out of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e411	I believe that this is a minor change that becomes a simplification, and that is not going to push jobs out of the country. But I know that every time we make proposals that give tougher competition, business protests. I've been a local politician, and I've experienced how the business community doesn't like a new mall somewhere else because it involves competition with its own shops. I've seen that when we've tried to make decorations within areas that have been detailed in the past, business hasn't been so excited about it. I'm used to that. When one makes sure that consumer considerations sometimes win in some cases, business will be concerned to argue against some of those changes. Although you often talk about more competition being good, you don't think it's good when it comes to your own area. If that's how the Workers' Party now wants to listen to business, I think they'll listen to a lot of the other wishes that we're actually fulfilling, for example. in the case of taxes, in the case of the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, the BIA, in the case of the TaxFUNN, yes, in all the areas where they did not contribute to the creation of new jobs when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e418	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e421	First, to some clarification, I think, because when you refer to the party program, it's a little different from what you mention there – it's issues of customs freedom, and then there's someone else who's talked about the limit of VAT. Our programme is about customs – that is to say. In an interview with the NRK, one of the State Secretarys of the Ministry of Finance said yesterday that the government's loss on the proposed change was estimated at 180 million. kr. On the question of what it means for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs, the State Secretary answers that it has not been calculated. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e428	It is not easy to calculate what such a marginal increase in this limit means for Norwegian jobs and no specific assessment has been made of it in this context. It is also not done every time we increase other charges, e.g. Petroleum taxes, which we increase in budgetary settlements in Stortinget, or other, which also have consequences for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e433	Ingunn Gjerstad - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e436	Of the 365 000 who work in the trade in goods, many are members of the Trade and Trade Office with collective bargaining agreements and maintain the Norwegian labour market model. Similarly, we have logistics companies in Norway that, in regulated forms, provide tax revenues to build well-being. And on the other hand, there's an increasing proportion of online trade that we have examples of being organized more as slavery than as work, as in the case of Amazon. How will the Prime Minister explain to the parties to our regulated working life and to those who are now at risk of losing their work in the trade in goods that this VAT change builds on the stakes of the Storting against an increasingly criminal and unregulated working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e442	We have good cooperation with the parties to address economic crime, especially in relation to the crime of working life. We work with LO and NHO to implement an action plan. I believe that, of course, there are also major challenges with everything we do. If we are acting in regulated shops in Norway or if we are shopping over the Internet, there are major challenges in terms of how social work conditions have been in the countries where the goods are produced. A lot of the goods we buy are produced in countries where the working environment is not like ours. It's important to work with the ethical consciousness, but unfortunately we can go into shops in Norway and buy clothes, buy things that are made under working conditions that we wouldn't want, and that we think we should fight internationally. There is no difference whether we buy from the online store, or whether we go into a Norwegian store. What we have to work on is to make sure that the whole supply chain is ethically responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e447	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e450	The Prime Minister runs a minority government that is so awesomely lucky to have a cooperation agreement with two parties in this Chamber. The draft budget is now before us. There the government lowers the car charges by 1.3 billion. kr, and it wasn't just the Left who didn't think it was a scoop – everything from all the environmental organisations to the car importers was suddenly on our side there. We see that Enova is assigned a number of new tasks, many more tasks than the increase in appropriations. One also cuts in forest protection, and the debate in public space shows that it is based on a misconception that we have no more forest to protect. A wise left-leader named Lars Sponheim once said that when you sit in government, have had things out at the hearing and discussed all aspects of things, you think that ‘this is the right decision’. Then the decision comes out into the public space. One is subjected to debate, and one is exposed to a searchlight on the decisions that have been made. Then it might turn out that some of the things that seemed quite obvious and simple inside the government room are not right when they get into the open debate. My question to the Council of State is: When she looks at the environmental budget, when she listens to what all the environmental organisations say, what the Left says, what the business is saying, and even what the car importers say: does the Prime Minister think that any of this criticism has anything to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e459	Erna Solberg is still Prime Minister – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e462	Let me start by saying that I mean the same thing now that I'm in position, which I meant in opposition. That means that I believe it is fruitful that we have the discussion that is taking place in Stortingen about individual proposals. There may also be new information on the consequences of individual proposals that we have not had with us when we have made decisions in government. I thought that was a challenge with the previous government, where it was often so detailed negotiated that it could not make changes in the Storting. I think it's an advantage that we have an open mind around it. So just to make it clear, there's no difference between what I mean in the opposition and in the position. Nor do I ignore the fact that there are areas on which we in this budget are going to change because we ourselves also come to a recognition that we should either wait with or do this in other ways, based on the objections that come through the treatment of the Storting. But with regard to the area related to the environment and climate, I believe that, especially on the climate side, we deliver a lot in this budget. We're delivering more money to an investment, we've said that it's going to be a tax deduction, but we're increasing the framework for solving it and getting a grant scheme into Enova. We provide more money into the fund, which every year will give more returns. The way Enova works in the field of environmental technology is an undertaking, and now there is room to make more commitments. Knowing that in the years to come the fund will increase by more money, it gives predictability of what you can say yes to by Norwegian companies. I would like to stress that there are many people talking about individual climate action in the budget. But what we're doing, maybe the biggest thing we can do, is actually bring our business into that transition and give them the support we can give to create the new environmental technology. That's what's really going to trigger the transition in Norwegian society, and that's where we give much more space in what's available. I know that we will negotiate, and I am absolutely sure that we will also meet the requirements that we have to meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e475	When the Left joined the cooperation agreement, there were some main points that were most important to us. I think that's what people might have gotten themselves into. One of them was environment, another thing was the fight against child poverty. There were not so many suggestions. In the RNB, we got free core time. Now it says that a strategy is to be drawn up. There are, of course, measures we need in the fight against child poverty. In the Question Time of 28 May this year, the Prime Minister said to me: ‘It is, of course, difficult for a Prime Minister to pre-profile all parts of the budget, but I believe that I can say to a reasonable degree of certainty that Trine Skei Grande will be heard when we present it.’ I have two questions for the Prime Minister. Shall I be heard now, or have I been heard? And is there going to be fewer poor children with the budget that has now been presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e487	That cord shift turned, among other things. on lower kindergarten rates for the poorest children. The representative has been heard. In addition, we have put in larger scholarships for children from poor families who go to high school. I also want to say that yes, there are measures we need to implement. There are individual measures, there are measures to strengthen areas, and I think the most important thing is to do it outside of the social security system itself, because it has negative effects over the working line. But the reason why we have said that we should have a strategy is the Riksrevision's criticism of the measures that have come in recent years. They are perceived as piecewise and divided individual measures that are not seen in a context. So we meet the Riksrevision's criticism that there is a little strategic review of which measures work best against child poverty. This means that we have said that we need to spend more time on it, we need to see the relationship between what we do for parents and for children, and we need to look at individual measures in a coherent strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e494	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Terje Breivik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e497	A theme we spent a lot of time in Nydalen last fall was the two-way economy. That's why I and Left were glad when the government platform was made public a few weeks later: "The two-way economy is making it increasingly important to ensure Norway more and more legs to stand on financially." It's a formulation The Left is completely united in, and is decisive for us in the work on the 2015 government budget. In that respect, the Left has asked the Ministry of Finance what new measures the government proposes in its draft State budget to counteract the bipartite nature of the economy. In plain text, the answer was not a new one. On the other hand, the government points to a reduction in property taxes or a better tax system. It is possible that the annual fee for caravans is cancelled for the government, the Prime Minister and the party leader in Right think about. The question is, is this a problem that the government is still taking seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e506	We're definitely going to do that. But I've also said that what we saw as bilingual a few years ago, has become a much more common challenge. What we now see in the oil and gas business is that the same cost challenges in a lower activity are there, as it has been in the rest of the country's economy, as part of the two-part division. That's why I believe that today there's no difference in the strategy for the non-oil-related part and the oil-related part to lift the conversion. When the investment in oil activity next year declines by approx. 10 pst., it has a pretty big impact on how the balance is going to be in the future. Then it is also important to stimulate the other parts of the economy. I think we're doing a lot to stimulate other parts of the economy. I believe that what we do in taxes on wealth helps to stimulate. What we do on payroll taxes helps to stimulate participation. I mean, what we do at SkattenFUNN, helps us get even more companies that want to research more, which is important, and the same is what we do with the BIA system. A wide range of research and incentives are also important for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e513	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e517	It's interesting to hear the beginning of negotiations between the government and the left. I think there are more people here who are excited about the continuation, and especially I am concerned about what is going on in the climate and the environment. Journalists have recently thrown dice and given grades to the members of the government. One of the ministers got so bad in character that today she's trying to get better character in the VG, and the Prime Minister also moved out in defense by saying that it's not that easy when the government's others are not so concerned about what the Council of State is responsible for, namely climate and environment. I think it is interesting that the Prime Minister admits that climate is not important for large parts of the government, and we know that the instruments in the field of climate lie with many government councils, among others. Tord Lien, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Jan Tore Sanner and Siv Jensen. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does she not feel that it is her responsibility to ensure that the climate is put high on the agenda and to present better budgets than what has been done now in terms of climate?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e526	I am, as the leader of the government, very concerned that everything we do in this government is a shared responsibility. I believe we have delivered a very good climate budget. I understand that many people want even more measures, and that there are some areas that you think are not right and go in the wrong direction. But when you look at what new measures we're taking, what the red-green government put forward, what we're doing, for example. the purchase of train services, what we do with depreciation rates on wind power, in areas where, for example: the red-green government said no to the opposition in the climate negotiations, and we're moving a good bit further. I believe that there is no reason to say that this government does not take the climate issues seriously, and I note that even those who criticize us for not going far enough actually say that we do more than the previous government did in these areas. Then we have some big areas ahead of us, for which we need to find even better measures, and that's what the government is working with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e535	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e538	I have a great deal of understanding of the frustration of the Left, not least in the climate and the environment. It will be interesting to follow the negotiations between the government and the Left and Christian People's Party. In the context of the climate agreement, the parties were concerned that forest was important for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, and therefore it is very disappointing that, among other things, the protection of forests has been reduced as significantly as it is. Then the government has proposed $3 million. kr for forest planting, and it is with respect to report quite puzzles. I'm sorry to just give you three million. kr over three years is for them to measure and evaluate the climate impact after three years. What I'm wondering is, what kind of climate effect will a measure of the forest plant spruce after three years, all the time spruce trees spend decades growing large and ripe? Is the government and the Prime Minister satisfied with the climate-related forest activity in this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e547	I am sure that there are individual measures that we all believe we could grant more, but in the balance between what we have made room for in this budget, and how much more we get in terms of new measures and reinforcements of climate action, I believe we have done a good job. There was a dissatisfaction in the previous government, too. I remember a statement from Kristin Halvorsen, who said, "Look what we have to deal with, with reference to the Minister of Oil and Energy, Borten Moe of the Center Party." I guess that shows that it was a little bit difficult. I see cooperation between an oil and energy minister and a climate minister who is particularly good, and which we now see doing important strategic action, not least for the renewable effort in Norway. The fact that we have now prepared and implemented two new cables for Europe does not just mean that we are helping to reduce CO2 emissions in Europe, it also helps to make the framework conditions for the renewable sector more predictable in the future, and we can get more investment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e557	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e560	The representative of Trine Skei Grande addressed the cooperation agreement, and it has been carefully pointed out that both the climate and the social profile are going to be a topic that is being raised in the negotiations we are about to enter into. But another field that we have in common in the cooperation agreement, which I know the Prime Minister fully agrees with the Christian People's Party, and which one wants to strengthen, that is the volunteer. That's why we thought it was a little strange that in the draft budget there was a number of cuts to non-governmental organisations. I can't mention everyone, but it's at least cut to Operation Dagswerk, cut to MOT, which is an organisation working against bullying, cut to a number of non-governmental organisations that work through the info support, cut to various environmental organisations, cut to 4H, cut to the study associations, etc. When does the government deliver the announced promise for better conditions for non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e569	In the draft budget there are several important promises. One of them is the change in the key, which actually contributes both to some non-governmental organisations and to sport with funding in the future. It's a big boost with a big financial framework. In addition, we increase the appropriations for the other VAT compensation schemes. Then there are some changes that are made in the individual budgets, but when you mention, for example, The operation Dagsverk – and I see that I have been challenged by what was former Operation Dagsverk-leader – I want to say that we have not allocated any money from the info support yet. Therefore, it is not that some organizations can say that they have had a cut, or that someone else has got a cut. We've said that the money we spend on assistance, we're going to spend primarily in developing countries. We're going to use them to provide health, education and other things, not to hire people in Norway. But still it'll be 60 million. kr – two thirds of what has been allocated before – and it must be pointed out. Then it depends on how good the purpose is. Some organisations may be at risk of getting bigger cuts, and some may be left uncut at the end when the money is distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e576	Rasmus Hansson – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e579	The Prime Minister repeats over and over again that, especially in the climate, the state budget delivers a lot, and we all hope that she is right about it. The problem is to try to figure out whether or not to verify such a claim. For example, the representative Skei Grande took cut off fuel charges, cut off car charges, etc. of 1.3 billion. kr in the transport sector. What has marked the transport sector in recent years is that the emissions that have increased, despite the fact that the current Prime Minister is not the first Prime Minister who has claimed to cut emissions. They've increased by 10 pst. since 2000. So the question to the Prime Minister is, can she now give some figures for what should be the climate impact, both of the tax cuts on cars and other things and of other measures in the transport sector? What emission cuts will we see in this sector that verify the claim that this is such a strong climate budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e586	It is not possible to go in and assess each, but it is clear that for every time – and TØI has also said – people buy a new car in Norway, emissions are falling. This means that if more people buy new cars in Norway, the emissions will be lower. So you could say that it would be even less emissions if we had had other taxes, depending on which new cars people bought, and that's what we've said, that we're going to bring the whole conversion and implementation of the car tax system into the revised national budget next year. It is announced earlier and has been agreed in Stortinget that it will come at that time. So renewal of the car park means less emissions. We probably have the potential to get even smaller emissions, but we're not there. So we've said that one of the important things we do in the field of transport is that we now provide a better collective offer by purchasing far more than what was planned for train equipment, so that trains can travel more often on the rails we have today. And then we're going to be 5 billion. kr in front of the escalation to be carried out on railway investments, in connection with the national transport plan. That's what's been added over the last two years. [[President clubs]] There is significantly greater implementation of trains than, for example: is on the road within this area. [[The President Clubs Again]] It won't work next year, but it'll work when it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e594	It's all over. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e597	The government saves 590 million. kr on the conversion of the child supplement for the disabled. It's a solid contribution from those who have the least, to Erna Solberg's tax party for those who have the most. We've heard some stories over the past few weeks that have touched many: Camilla Stensletten from Hordaland, who asked the Prime Minister where she's going to live with her two-year-old. Stine, single mother of a 9-year-old girl, asked me to raise the same question with the Prime Minister during the previous party leader debate. These are parents who are afraid of the future. They can't work, and they see that the prime minister's policy is going to go out on their children. And when we ask the Prime Minister what she will do to prevent these children from getting a tougher everyday life, we get talks on the workline. I know the Prime Minister is satisfied with the state budget, but she too must admit that it is not going to get someone who is lame, to start walking. No one is going to get up from the wheelchair because of this state budget, no chronic diseases are going to be cured because of this state budget. And the government needs to understand that it feels like – and is – terribly unfair that parents who cannot work are going to dramatically reduce their income. And the losers will be the most vulnerable – the children. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: Does the Prime Minister agree that the removal of the child supplement will mean that even parents who cannot work for health reasons will lose up to NOK 28 000 per year? And: Does the Prime Minister think this is cut off for caregivers who cannot work will lead to a better or a more difficult everyday life for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e608	Let me start by commenting on the opening presentation: so next year, we won't save one penny to finance any taxes on the conversion of the children's supplement. On the contrary, we're going to spend 600 million. kr more on the disability judgments, both the conversion that is a consequence of what was adopted in 2011 and the protective measures proposed by that government, so that the consequences for those who have an apartment of their own who have a loan to pay will not be so great in the first years. It's because we've seen that the proposal that the previous government has promoted for the Storting has a dramatic impact on some of those who have a high debt burden, we're making sure that transition gets better. Yes, we're making a diabolical addition instead of a need-tested addition, and then there are some dilemmas. And it's not like everyone sitting in a wheelchair can't work – I think that's an underestimation of people sitting in a wheelchair. A lot of people sitting in a wheelchair, wanting to be out of work, so we don't have to have it as a starting point. This is actually some of what we're going to do to better facilitate, to make sure that we use the measures we have, in a better way to make sure that even more of them can use that force. Then I would like to say: This is of course difficult, and I do not underestimate that there are some people who get it more difficult – both with what a unanimous magnification has done, in the conversion of the disability benefit, and with what is associated with the child supplement. But if we believe that the long-term job for fewer people to fall out of, for more children not to be poor, is to ensure a link with the world of work, then we have to make sure that it is not unprofitable to work, and that is a challenge today. That shows the example I mentioned earlier: if you have four children and you work 40 pst, you will go up to 100 pst. losing almost 70 000 kroner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e617	It's not a line of work that characterizes this budget – it's an inheritance line. It's worth inheriting, it's the message from the government. Those who live on inheritance and large interest income will get more, and those who have the least will get less. The government's message is that the rich have good of getting more, while the poor have good of getting less. It's top-class morality. I record that the Prime Minister has problems in admitting and saying clearly that it is that many who cannot work are going to be poorer. Therefore, I would like to ask my question once again: Can the Prime Minister state clearly that the removal – or change – of the child supplement will mean that even parents who for health reasons are unable to work will lose a substantial part of their social security, and does the Prime Minister believe that this cut, for caregivers who cannot work, will lead to a better or more difficult everyday life for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e628	As shown in the VG today, next year there are some of those who are on disability, who are going to get better out with the changes that are being made, and some are going to get worse out. Yes, there will be some people who come out worse financially because there are no child supplements, and because the debt rate is getting less deductions, which the representative Lysbakken has also agreed and voted in favour of in Stortinget. These are measures that help some people to get worse, while others are going to get better. I'm not underestimating that challenge, but at the same time the government is doing a lot in other areas. When we make sure to differentiate child care prices from the next harvest, that means that those with the lowest income will have less costs associated with it. When we make sure that the scholarships are increased for the students with the lowest incomes, that means that the same groups will be able to experience that their children in high school will receive better scholarships than they have had in the past. We believe that this is the way to go to help those with the lowest incomes – not to create the mistakes that make it pay off for people to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e639	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e642	It is fascinating to hear how many different policy areas and actions the Prime Minister is willing to talk about in order not to answer a simple question. It has been the review tone from the Right in both weeks since the government budget was presented. The right will not deal with the reality of its own proposal. Because of the fear that some theoretically can get more in social security than if they were in work — given that they are really able to work — Right implements a cut that affects all children of dependants who receive the child supplement. I ask the question once again, because I expect a clear answer – not about other things, but about this: Does the Prime Minister agree that the cut in the child supplement will mean that even caregivers who for health reasons cannot work will lose significant parts of their income, and will this cut off for dependants who for health reasons cannot work, lead to a better or more difficult everyday life for the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e649	I encourage Snorre Serigstad Valen to read the minutes afterwards, because then he will see that in my two previous answers I have answered: Yes, for some will of course mean less revenue – just as the other misalignment, which Snorre Serigstad Valen has agreed to vote for, will result in some unqualified people getting less money in the years to come. This is why it is important to do what a former female prime minister in Norway said was important: to see that everything is related. I mean, everything is related to everything. If we're not going to solve everything in the social security area, we have to find the other areas, so we can help families with poor advice. We do that when we have lower prices in kindergartens, when we provide them with more scholarships with the lowest incomes. There is just the kind of direct grant that the Brochmann Committee believes is more right than making the difference between being in the job and not being in the job even higher. It's a challenge, I think, if it doesn't pay to work, for groups that can work. There are some groups that can't work at all, but the way the disability is put up, it's almost impossible to separate them out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e658	Lise Christoffersen – to follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e661	It is to the extent of progress that the Prime Minister now actually admits that the line of work cannot be for everyone, but there are still clear answers to what one wants to do for them. But let's go to those who are disabled today because no one will let them go. I asked a question to Minister of State Jan Tore Sanner in the Question Time last week, without getting an answer to that question, and therefore I could imagine repeating it and addressing it to the Prime Minister: What action plan does the government have to ensure that countries and municipalities, such as employers, employ more people with disabilities, and how many are realistic or reasonable that the public can offer a job, in line with the workline?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e670	I don't have an estimate of how many there are, because I haven't seen any numbers on that. It is possible that they exist, but there is not all the details even a detailed prime minister can answer. But I believe that this is a great potential for the state to employ more people, and I believe it is a great potential for municipalities to employ more people. I have made a broad appeal to the labour market, and I have seen that several companies do so, by setting up posts and working with the labour market authorities, Nav, to receive people who may need places of practice – a first entry into the labour market – or a permanent job with some support functions in the future. An important part of the message we come with is how we also ensure that the whole instrument of action is better able to do what we said was an important goal of the Nav system, namely to have a run around the individual, so that we help more people get into work. However, there is a potential, both for municipalities and the state, to contribute to both practical areas and places that allow you to work in combination, for example. between unemployment benefits and exclusion from the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e680	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e683	In today's Business yesterday we could read that the representative Arve Kambe, from the Right, said that the government has given the companies "all they have asked for". It was a kind of reverse echo from the Workers' Party, which was out in the same paper two years ago and said they had given LO everything they had asked for. One pointed to four points that the companies had asked for. Three of them, in my opinion, were very reasonable. It is about the liberalisation of labour law, it is about tax cuts, and it is about the promotion of culture and knowledge. But then there was a fourth point that the companies had apparently asked for: cut in the children's supplement to them. I wonder if the Prime Minister can confirm that this has been a wish from business. In this case, the Left and the Right have had very different meetings with the business community lately.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e690	I cannot say that detailed measures have been high on the list, but follow-up to the work line has been high on the list – as a wish from business organisations to both mobilise enough labour in the future and ensure sustainability of expenditure in the future. This was part of the big issue a few years ago, when the NHO held a conference on the sustainability of our welfare system. Among other things, it was a fact that for some groups it would not pay to take out the residual labour they had, to be able to work, or that it would be harder to come back after a period when you had been outside because you had been sick. Luckily, it is that of some diseases, such as alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, alcohol, Even if you've been sick for a while, it's to be able to come back when you start getting well, which is one of the most important things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e699	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e702	In June, the Prime Minister and I had an inter-pelling debate here in the Chamber on employment policy, on the importance of continuing to have the ambition to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and on the importance of taking action to achieve that goal. Now we see, among other things: that the supplier industry is an industry facing major challenges, and in the state budget, government is tracking some increase in unemployment until next year. The question of how to meet those challenges was the main theme of that debate. What we are seeing is a government that still has doubts about a law on permitting which means that many people who had not had to be laid off are today being laid off, which the social partners – employers and employees – agree on. We see that the government is proposing a reduced level of action in a situation where unemployment seems to increase. We see that the government cuts unemployment rates for those who become unemployed, and we see cutbacks in business schemes, in Innovation Norway, in regional and development funds that are meant to create new jobs. Then I could imagine going back to a question that was asked earlier in the Questionnaire, which concerns the VAT limit in online commerce. There has been no lack of clear signals to the government that this should not be done, because it is going to lead to increased unemployment. This concerns Complete.no, which was mentioned in the previous question. In today's Evening Post, the group manager of Complete.no Ole Vinje says that this must lead to increased unemployment. The founder in his time of the same enterprise, Eric Sandtrø, signed out of the Right on the day the budget was presented, and the unknown Steinar Olsen in the good enterprise Stormberg in Kristiansand warns against exactly the same thing. This is not a saving measure, this is a measure on which the government spends money – the government spends 180 million. I want people to lose their jobs. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: Is there any money spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e713	Every time we introduce more competition in an area, there will be some who argue that this means fewer jobs where they sit. We always have to remember that. Those debates go on every single time. I want to start with the introduction to the question, as regards the situation in the oil and gas industry. What we see is a lot of announcements about cancellations. There is no reason to say that those cancellations would have been halted by another permitting legislation if this had only been short-term. I would like to remind you that what the state is paying for today is the first 20 days, measured against the daily allowance level. The recruitment cost of a new employee is estimated by the agency to be up to half a million kroner. It is basically very irrational companies if they believe that there are jobs in half a year or one year for this labour force, and then they cancel to save perhaps 50,000 or 100,000 kroner to get an extra cost of 500,000 kroner later. I don't think it's like that. What the government has said about the law on permitting is that we should keep track of developments. If we see that evolution is that we're actually going to make changes, we'll do as we've done before. All governments have experienced that the legislation on permitting is also being used as a cyclical management code, and we will do so. But so far, the figures show that most of those who have been laid off and gone out have actually been sucked up by others who need the labour force. We're going from a level where this was an overheating labour market to a little more normalized. The government is open to making changes to the permit rules when we see evidence that this is a major challenge, but I assume that one makes a little sense when assessing costs in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e722	It is true that the legislation on permitting has sometimes changed, but it has been changed to be more favourable in bad times. So now it's worse when we meet the counterground. We'll get back to that. I don't want to let go of the prime minister on the issue of online commerce, which I think she's been getting too easily away from so far. What the prime minister now says, is that yes, when there is more competition, there is someone who loses. The government's choice is against clear warnings from those in the industry – I heard the Prime Minister say they had not checked the employment impact of the measure – but now they have at least been informed. What the government is also doing is subsidising jobs and enterprises abroad at the expense of jobs in Norway, rather than as a saving measure – no, they spend 180 million. kr in order to give Norwegian companies less competition than those with which they compete abroad. Then I repeat the question: Is there any money spent?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e729	First of all, it means that we make it simpler and cheaper for Norwegian consumers. That's the majority of the Norwegian population. We must not forget that consumers also exist in this context, and that is a simplification. I disagree that this is a dramatic proposal. Just because we're charging this, this is an adjustment that's far less than a normal adjustment just for the rise in prices over the years since the introduction of this threshold would be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e734	For time reasons, the President will now give access to one supplementary question. - Anette Trettebergstuen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e737	The government's approach to changing the legislation on leave led to protests from an overall employee side and an overall employers' side – precisely because there is a measure that leads to more redundancies at a time of increased unemployment. It's pouring gasoline on the fire. I also heard the Prime Minister repeat what was said at the presentation of the budget, that the legislation had to be assessed in line with the economic cycle. Business has warned that they were going to cancel people instead of permitting. And people are now being told up. Storesund Marine and Rosenberg in Rogaland, Hammerfest Industrial service, Westcon Yards in Ølen, NorDan in Hedmark – the list is long, the time here is short. Where does the pain actually go? How many companies are going to quit people, lose competence? How many jobs will be created before the Prime Minister is willing to assess the legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e744	Permitting rules are designed in such a way that they are simple to do if we see that there will be a major challenge in some sectors, for example, or overall in the economy. It is easy to make changes. We haven't seen it. Well, we see redundancies, and it's incredibly difficult for those who experience it, but we also see that most of that workforce is sucked up by other companies very quickly. Now we're going to follow developments in the last cancellations, and see if what we've seen so far changes in the future. Back to the question of maintaining competence: if there is a short-term need to permit and you choose to cancel people instead, it is a very short-term idea for a company where the cost of new recruiting is going to be much higher than the costs they save by the state paying for a few more days than it does today. I assume that this is a rational assessment. Many of the redundancies are due to the fact that you do not have a horizon in the future – where the company sees that there are jobs that make it natural to keep labour – not even in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e752	So the time for the oral questioning is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e763	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Marianne Aasen to the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been transferred to the Minister for Industry, which is responsible for this matter. At the request of the Minister of Industry, this question is moved and answered in response to question 8, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 5 and 6 from the representative Marit Nybakk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs have to be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 7, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left. Question 8, from the representative Odd Omland to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left. Question 12, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister of Justice and Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative of Kirsti Bergstø to the Minister for Defence, is, at the request of the Minister for Defence, moved and answered for question 4. The question will be addressed by the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e786	I allow myself to ask the Minister at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU the following questions: ‘Destruction of border barriers and measures to avoid the emergence of new barriers are a priority area of Nordic cooperation. However, experience shows that different implementation of EU legislation in the Nordic countries leads to new border barriers. What procedures has the government set up to ensure that different implementations of EU legislation do not create new frontier barriers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e795	The government prioritises Nordic cooperation, including cross-border work, high. Within the framework of government cooperation and the Nordic Council of Ministers, for which Minister of Cooperation Elisabeth Aspaker is responsible, it is actively working to reduce border barriers. The strategy of 2013 is followed up by the individual Councils of Ministers and a new Border Barrier Council has been established, with Norwegian representative Svein Ludvigsen, to follow up and resolve a given number of border barriers each year. The strategy also has a chapter on the introduction of new EU legislation. In this context, it is noted that there is a risk that implementation is not uniform and that, therefore, there are unintended border barriers between the Nordic countries. It is therefore important to step up efforts to ensure uniform implementation in areas where cross-border barriers may arise between countries. In addition to the follow-up to the strategy, a closer coordination of Nordic positions in future EU acts and those under review is already under way today. Nordic cooperation is much of the core of our European work, and it is a cooperation we are intensifying. In concrete terms, this means that we are discussing the implementation of EEA-relevant EU legislation between countries. We are trying to agree on how a given act should be introduced into national law and try to ensure adequate dialogue at the level of office for that purpose. This is a matter that is followed up through both formal channels and informal Nordic networks. We also discuss the implementation and enforcement of EU legislation through working groups in EFTA and in the EU. Ensuring equal treatment of legislation is seen at European level as an important instrument for improving the functionality of the internal market. We also have a good dialogue with the EFTA Surveillance Authority to ensure timely and correct implementation of EEA-relevant EU legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e806	I thank you for the answer, which probably didn't go into so much detail just how to coordinate and work together. I understand that the ambition is that there is contact both at the level of office and at the level of politics. Is there so much experience that can tell us if you succeed? If you find that you have implemented ways that are unforeseen to create new barriers, is there any reason why cooperation and coordination are too poor, or are there any real issues that lie in the different laws and regulations of the countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e811	I believe that all the points raised by the representative, Mr Hansen, are relevant. It is clear that the relationship between the Nordic countries is closer than with any other country. We have a great deal of cross-border activity between our countries, and an unintended and unwanted, but nevertheless natural, consequence of that is that we get things of this kind. The important thing then is that we give priority to getting hold of them and finding solutions. We have started a work on the Norwegian side to integrate the management guidelines on EEA matters into the investigation manual. It is an important objective in which, in the evaluation and implementation of new EEA legislation, we shall also identify the needs for the most consistent practices in the Nordic countries. That means that we need to work more closely with our Nordic friends.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e816	It is possible that it is a little early to gain experience, so let me just end by asking if the Council of State feels that the commitment to avoiding new frontier barriers through different implementations is as strong in the other Nordic countries as the Council of State indicates that we are engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e821	The Nordic EU Member States, like Norway, are concerned about the proper functioning of the internal market and are among the countries most concerned. That is why this is also a country that has an agreement that we must build down frontier barriers. One of the innovations we are now adding is a permanent Nordic European Ministerial Meeting. We're going to have it for the first time in Stockholm next week. There we will have the opportunity to discuss these kinds of issues, including at political level, in order to make it clear that it is a priority that the internal market should function better, and that these frontier barriers, which we all agree on is a problem, should be built down in the Nordic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e826	Question 2 is moved and dealt with according to question 8 because the questions have been transferred to the Minister of Industry who is directing him. The size then goes to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e835	‘By virtue of the permissions of the EEA funds, Norway has concluded financial support agreements for many different EU countries, including Hungary. Does the State Council know what will happen to the money that was supposed to go to Hungary, as Norway has warned that further payments of EEA funds to the country will be stopped?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e847	Payments of EEA funds to Hungary have been suspended due to breaches by the Hungarian authorities of agreements on the management of funds. This means that it cannot be completely excluded that payments can be resumed if Hungary shows that the agreements it has concluded will be respected. Payments of EEA funds are made in advance, at the request of the recipient countries, three times a year. Due to the suspension of payments to Hungary, no funds are transferred there. The final date for the approval of expenditure during the current period of the EEA financial resources is 30 April 2016. If we stop paying, the total transfers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be reduced accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e856	I thank you for your answer. While the government has stopped funds to the right government in Hungary, a choice has been made to continue the transfer of funds channelled through the Ecofin Foundation to independent and voluntary organisations. The Council of State has expressed great hope that the EU will not respond more critically to developments in Hungary, including: about the commitment to press freedom and harassment of voluntary organisations, which did not seem to decrease. Has the Council of State been given a new signal from the EU and will it be a topic in the current negotiations on the EEA quota, which in that case could result in a permanent reduction of the economic framework for Hungary?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e865	It is quite right, as Mr Navarsete says, that I am disappointed that the European Union is not more strongly attached to the fundamental values on which European cooperation is based. There are values and principles Norway shares with the EU, and it is important that countries that become members of the EU on the basis of specific criteria also govern on the basis of those criteria, and that there is no authoritarian development in EU Member States. It is also the basis that once we have suspended the funds, we address this with the EU, although this is a bilateral relationship with Hungary. We are in dialogue with the EU on the issue. We'll deal with it where we can, but there's so far no topic in the negotiations on EEA funds for the next period. There's also no reason that it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e872	I thank you for your answer again. The government is known in negotiations with the EU on new Norwegian payments through EEA funds. It has also emerged that the government is considering providing funds to non-EU countries. Has any other use of EEA funds been part of the negotiations between the EU and Norway on a formal basis, and how far will the government go in relation to requirements to build up under more bilateral relations between the EU and individual countries that are not currently connected to the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e879	I am pleased with this opportunity to point out that, in investigations or negotiations with the EU, we have not discussed or launched thoughts about using EEA funds outside the EU area, but we have explored the possibility of seeing our contribution to a broader European integration process in the context of EEA cooperation. This is because it is a broader and deeper European integration process, but it is therefore not a matter of using EEA funds outside the geographical scope relevant to EEA funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e888	‘The Government has announced that it will extend the toll collection period at E18 in Westfold by 5 years. TV 2 has demonstrated through several surveys that this could increase the toll bill on business and drivers in total by 1.4 billion. kronor through increased financing and collection costs. How does this correspond to the promise that more tolls will go to road construction and less to the financing and collection of tolls?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e895	Over the last few years, tolls in Norwegian bombers have increased sharply. Only in the last four years, while Geir Pollestad himself was State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, the toll debt was doubled. This means that drivers pay more and more in administrative costs and interest costs to get on Norwegian roads, rather than funding roads through taxes and taxes. This government has announced a toll reform. That means we want to change the way to organise the toll sector. In some places it means we're removing the toll stations – we've already done that on seven sections. In other places it will result in lower rates, etc. The drivers will get out of this. That's the whole point. We want to collect the loan debt and get lower real interest rates, and we want to bring together the administration and thus get lower administrative costs. That means that we can either reduce the rate or reduce the payoff time, or have a combination of both. This has not yet been decided in the Storting. But to give a taste of what it can be, and to solve local challenges on E18, we have put in a transitional arrangement where, among other things, The E18 in Westfold is now allowed to reduce the fare. So the calculation to satisfy the guarantees the county has already given, has done that one here has not reduced the borrowing costs of interest and administration, but that we have shown a calculation of longer payoff time. It's just a temporary calculation because the reform hasn't come into force, and because it would be pointless a lot of work to start changing a loan guarantee and then changing it again when the reform comes into force. The calculation referenced from TV 2, TV 2 itself, has been informed that it is not a very relevant comparison. The letter from the Ministry of Transport states that taking into account all the elements of this reform, borrowing costs will not rise. Ergo wouldn't be right to say it was 1.4 billion. kr more expensive. What we achieve, on the other hand, is what the Central Party in Westfold itself took the initiative already in 2007, to get lower rates on this route, so that one avoids over 25 pst. of the cars on this route would drive on local roads instead of on the motorway. Here there are schools and kindergartens along the road that the Center Party in Westfold sees that it would be very unfortunate if many thousands of cars were to start driving by, because the fares were so high on the highway, on the E18. This is why we have met the approach of Westfold — as a single Westfold county — to reduce tariffs. Here it means that one will actually get many more to drive on the highway that one has built, instead of taking the side roads because of high fares. It also means that more people are involved and pay the bill, which means that you can have a lower rate without actually ending with a longer down payment period. That's how everyone wins. The drivers get it cheaper. Those who live along the side roads get it cheaper. And at the same time you've got a good path in place. That's what I think is a win-win for everyone, without it costing anything more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e912	I thank you for your answer. There is absolutely no doubt that this toll reform has been announced – it has been notified in large letters and repeated times. Unfortunately, we do not see any trace of it, nor in the state budget. In any case, the fact of the transitional arrangement is that when we extend the amortisation period from 15 to 20 years, the cost increases. So in other words, there's also going to be some new items, where someone else is going to take this bill. But I understand that the principle of 20 years' collection should also be underpinned, even if it is the state that takes over the bill. However, the drivers have expectations of the Progress Party in this regard, and when the State Council writes on its blog that ‘ergo is going to be the lending rate of the drivers almost 0 %’, my question is: When can the drivers expect the state to take the borrowing rate, so that the borrowing rate paid by the drivers will be nearly 0 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e921	When I get such offensive questions, I guess it also means that the Center Party is more than happy to support that reform – since you are asking how fast it can get in place. It would have been nice to confirm. It is also true that the drivers have great expectations that the Progress Party as part of the Right-Fremskritsparte government will contribute to a reduction in toll costs. We've gone to the elections on that. They didn't have that expectation for the red-green government, which was constantly increasing toll tariffs and costs. It is also wrong to say that this reform is not tenacious in the draft budget for 2015. It is mentioned on pages 76 and 77 of the budget proposal from the Ministry of Transport, and there you can read about it. But it is such an important reform that it is not natural to include a lot of decisions in the budget. We got the decisions we needed in the revised budget this summer. The reform itself is so extensive that it needs to be presented as a separate proposition, and the aim is to bring it into effect during 2015 – precisely because it is important that the drivers get benefits from lower toll costs by reforming the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e930	Now it may be common for the representative to ask, but I got a question, so I would remind you that both for the state budget last year, for the effrontery and for the revised budget, the Storting has actually allocated more money to transport than the Right Party government has proposed. So it's going to be something artificial to owe to Stortinget when it's about appropriations. It is also the case that the government has been given an impact and support in Stortingen for the cancellation of the toll debt that has been proposed. That's the point of the toll reform on an interest rate of approximately 0 pst. Which is the central one. One thing is to write it on a blog, something else is to say it in Stortinget. Then my question is: can the Council of State guarantee that in the toll reform that will come in 2015, it will be added that the state will cover the entire interest rate in toll projects, so that the borrowing rate is approximated to 0 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e937	The representative Pollestad mentions the objective very clearly: that the interest rate should be approximately 0 pst. It doesn't necessarily mean all the interest, but a lot of the interest. That is what is contained in the word ‘approached’. But there are many wrong premises in the question here. Firstly, the 2015 budget proposes an increase of 18,1 pst. to road appropriations in addition to the red-green proposal in 2014. In the additionalproposal of the Right-Fremskritslot-government last autumn, proposed road appropriations were in fact higher than the final decision of the Size. So the size of the store negotiated the road allocations. However, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, road appropriations were significantly higher than proposed by the government of Pollestad. So it's not right that we got exactly what it was added up from the previous government. It is a significant increase, because there is a significant change of pace in this. But again: I think it is good that the representative Pollestad is concerned with lower toll tariffs. This testifies to a new course compared to when he himself sat as State Secretary in the government. It bears witness to good times.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e946	So we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e953	This question, from the representative of Kirsti Bergstø to the Minister for Defence, will be raised by the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e956	So my question is to the Minister of Defence: ‘The Ministry of Defence has decided that the cleaning of the defence's buildings shall be put to tender. How have employees and their organisations been involved, what will happen to those currently employed, and how will this affect their pay and pension conditions when compared with usual private sector pension schemes?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e965	Let me start by putting the answer into a context. Overall, the defence sector spends more than 300 million dollars. kr per year on a clean basis, and Defence Building is the monopoly supplier of this service to the Defence. A working group led by the Ministry of Defence reviewed the management model for property, construction in 2013. The working group gave its recommendation to the political leadership at that time on 22 May 2013. The report shows, among other things: that, in principle, there should be no obstacle to the freedom of the defence to choose who is to provide cleaning services to the Defence. The defence has also expressed in the process a clear desire for increased freedom of choice in the choice of service provider. Missions to the agencies to investigate and/or implement concrete improvement actions in the context of the above report, including for cleaning services, were sent from then political leadership on 20 August 2013. With this in mind, the Ministry of Defence commissioned the Ministry of Defence to provide the Department with an inquiry into this matter, in cooperation with other departments in the sector. The Ministry of Defence gave instructions that employees should be involved in this investigation according to the guidelines in force, and that a working group was set up, inter alia. representatives of the board of trustees; In February 2014, the Working Party of the Ministry of Defence delivered a final report to the Ministry of Defence on the possibility of purchasing cleaning services directly from suppliers other than Defence Buildings. Through this investigation, employee organisations have been given the opportunity to make a thorough contribution to the case. The decision will have a human resources impact on those who are currently working on clean-up in Defence Buildings. Defence Construction and Defence shall submit by 1 December 2014 a agreed plan for the execution of the mission by the Ministry of Defence. Furthermore, the establishment shall implement the necessary processes and investigations to enable the mission to be completed as soon as possible and by 1 August 2015 at the latest. In the process, the human resources impact shall be fully elucidated by the departments concerned and a competitive basis shall be established to safeguard the interests of the defence sector in the best possible way. It is therefore too early to say what the consequences will be for those currently employed in Defence Buildings and performing cleaning services, as well as for pay and pension conditions. The Ministry of Defence has in the whole process – and I will repeat it now – underlined that the rights of employees should be properly respected and in accordance with the applicable legal and contractual work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e978	I thank you for your answer. Currently, security clearance has become an increasingly topical issue in this country, and our defence has a major and important mission to defend countries and people. My question is therefore: what is the Minister's strategy to ensure that safety-cleared cleaners are obtained from the private companies that might clean up the defence's small and large locations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e987	The representative points to a very important point, and the requirement for security clearance will continue to apply in the future regardless of who is performing the clean-up service. It is an important part of the planning work now being carried out by Defence Building and Defence, to find appropriate solutions to this, and it must take care of the special needs of the representative, quite rightly, that the defence sector has. The requirement for security clearance has existed until now and will continue to apply in a new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e992	I want to know a little more specifically how the Minister of Defense will talk to the many people who are affected by such a decision. So we have 364 cleaners today that are directly affected by the decision, of which 150 are over 55. Most of them are women without much formal education. We talk a lot in this room about preventing people from falling out of work, so the real question is, how will the minister deal with these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e999	As I have explained, both contact with trustees and not least how to handle employees through the existing legal and contractual works is a significant point here. For this reason, trustees through their representatives have been involved in the investigation, they have been given thorough consultation and they represent the employees in these processes. I have also been very concerned about stressing that when we now go into the concrete and formalisation of this, the consequences for the personnel should be thoroughly highlighted. Then I would like to stress – and I think it is important to look at this in this context – that when we reach the Defence Council, in all the levels and anywhere else in all the departments, we look at opportunities to carry out core tasks in the best possible way, we also need to look at opportunities to release resources to do so. This means that when we do this, it will be able to be traded for several hours of sailing, flying, exercising and training that carry out the main mission and core activities of the Defence in the best possible way, namely the operational ability and defence of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1006	So we go back to the questions 5 and 6. However, these questions need to be postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1031	As I said, these questions are postponed, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1038	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1041	I just want to say that I am aware that there has been a new development in the matter since the question was delivered within the deadline of Thursday, but I still think it is of interest to address the question here and go into it further. It's like: ‘In northern Syria at the border with Turkey, including in the city of Kobanê, the Kurdish population is at the forefront and makes the biggest victims in the fight against the bestial terrorist organisation IS. Kurds have difficulties in obtaining reinforcements, ammunition and supplies, partly because they are under the control of IS and partly because, according to many sources, the Turks do not allow this. What can and will the government do to influence Turkey to facilitate Kurds to bring in supplies, reinforcements, etc. via their land area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1050	The brutal terrorist organisation ISIL must be combated. Action against ISIL must be taken along several lines, political, economic and military. Humanitarian action is essential to help the civilian population affected by the conflicts in both countries. I fully share the concern of the representative, Mr Bøhler, about the consequences of ISIL's behaviour and the enormous suffering that the group causes to the civilian population in Syria and Iraq. This is high on the agenda for the government's talks with colleagues inside and outside the region, last in the meeting between Minister of Foreign Affairs Brende and Germany's Minister of Foreign Affairs Steinmeier on 17 October. Norway is in dialogue with Turkey, both bilaterally and in multilateral forums, on how to resolve the conflict and on how to combat the progress of ISIL. I myself discussed the conflict with Deputy Prime Minister Babacan and EU Minister Bozkir in Istanbul on 29 September. The situation in North Syria, including in Kobanê, is part of this dialogue. Turkey has a key role to play. In a recent talks with Foreign Minister Brende, Turkey’s Foreign Minister, the latter confirmed that Turkey will actively contribute to the fight against ISIL. Turkey also makes significant humanitarian efforts by accepting a large number of Syrian refugees, including from the Kurdish territories. Kurdish forces are now fighting a hard fight against ISIL in Kobanê. In recent days, American aircraft have been dropping air supplies with weapons, ammunition and medical equipment supplied by Kurdish self-government authorities in Iraq. As the representative of Bohemia has been involved, there has been a development in the last few days. The Foreign Minister of Turkey informed on 20 October that Ankara will allow Kurdish forces from the autonomous areas of northern Iraq to cross Turkish territory on their way to northern Syria. In this way, the forces fighting ISIL in Kobanê can get some of the assistance that has been requested. The Norwegian response to the crises in Syria and Iraq is largely humanitarian, and we are one of the foremost humanitarian contributors. Because humanitarian needs are rising sharply in areas where the Kurdish population is dominant, parts of Norwegian-funded projects will be directed to these areas and to support Syrian-Kurdish refugees in Turkey. In total, the government has granted about 1 billion. kr in humanitarian and other assistance to Syria and Iraq in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1067	Thank you very much for a positive answer. I just want to add that as late as Sunday I saw a TV clip with President Erdo­an in Turkey, who characterized the Kurds who fought in Kobanê, as terrorists, and that you wouldn't open up to send reinforcements in there. Fortunately, there has now been a change of attitude – which at least was announced on Monday. What I would like to ask about, in addition, is whether Norway is assessing what more can be contributed to the area. It is that this fight is far from settled or decided, and there may be many things Norway can do, for example. in connection with the economic war against IS. They are, of course, financed, among other things. by dumping oil on world markets – they dump oil via different channels. I would like to ask if Norway is assessing other contributions, including: in order to implement an effective economic boycott of IS – if Norwegian competence can be deployed in that work internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1078	As mentioned above, efforts against ISIL must be broad-spectrumed, and it must address both political, economic, military and humanitarian elements. It is also important that there is a coordinated international effort. The efforts to eradicate sources of terrorist financing are very important and must also be made in a multilateral and international context. We have so far concentrated our efforts on humanitarian issues, where we are one of the foremost contributors. We have also made an effort by Norwegian officers in the US Central Command, which helps to plan the international military effort. We are assessing further military efforts, but have not yet taken a decision on concrete military contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1089	Thank you again for your answer. It's like the Kurds are the only strong local force in these areas that stands for democratic values, and that has taken a leading role in the fight against IS, so developing cooperation with them I agree is becoming very crucial. There are also several measures that can be expected. In order to provide political support, Norway could establish a consulate in the Kurdish region of Northern Iraq – Hewlêr is called the city where the other countries have consulates – which could contribute, among other things. to coordinate relief work and humanitarian work. One thing Norway did in the war in Iraq was to contribute to the training of forces. We were well trained by some Iraqi forces, among others. in the Stavanger area. I know that the Kurds most need training of their forces, which are in front of IS. So I would like to ask whether the government considers some of these measures, which may be wide-ranging, in order to strengthen the role of the Kurds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1102	We are in close dialogue with the US authorities on possible contributions to the international coalition, and we are in close dialogue with other friends and allies on such efforts. We place great emphasis on the region’s contribution in a number of ways, but it should not keep us from making relevant and important Norwegian contributions. We are assessing contributions within capacity building with a view to prompt treatment by the government of this. It is also important to stress that all Kurdish groups – and there are many different groups here – regardless of their geographical location are subject to human rights, are subject to applicable international law and are entitled to protection and to unfold accordingly. As far as Iraqi Kurdistan is concerned, we are dealing with them in accordance with the Constitution of Iraq. It grants extensive autonomy to the region. This applies to the Kurds in this region and not, for example, to the Kurds. The Kurds of Syria, Iran and Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1119	This question, from the representative of Odd Omland to the Minister for Fisheries, is answered by the Minister for Industry on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1122	I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘In the Question Time of 15 October 2014, I asked the Council of State whether a sample has been set up to assess how municipalities will receive a long-term and stable share of the value creation related to aquaculture, as expressed by a majority of the Economic and Social Committee in its budget setting last year. The Council of State replied that an analysis was now being made of whether to introduce a land tax and that responses will be provided in the notified notification of growth in the aquaculture industry. In this context, is a sample reduced as intended by the size of the sample?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1131	As the Minister for Fisheries said in oral Question Time on 15 October 2014, the government is concerned that municipalities should be compensated for being good local authorities for the aquaculture industry. If the industry is to grow further, access to land is an important prerequisite. Municipalities making land available to the industry should experience greater positive effects from the activity. In a recent consultation proposal on capacity growth in existing salmon concessions, the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries has proposed that 50 pst. the remuneration of the concessions shall be paid to the municipalities. In the award of the so-called green salmon concessions currently in force, 40 pst goes. of the remuneration of the municipalities. It is estimated to be about 480 million. kr. Land tax was investigated by the Stoltenberg Government in 2008. At that time the investigation was carried out by an inter-ministerial working group chaired by the Ministry of Finance. A land tax was not introduced, but at the same time the possibility to charge property taxes on marine farms was introduced. No separate sample has been reduced to assess the issue of an area charge. The government will now charge an area charge to the aquaculture industry and return to the Storting in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1140	Thanks for the answer. This is more or less the same answer as that found in the October 15 issue, and the Council of State again refers to that analysis. I would just like to quote from the comments: ‘The majority are of the opinion that such an investigation must be targeted and concentrate on how municipalities will get a long-term and stable share of the value creation related to aquaculture. All stakeholders including the organisation Network fjord and coastal municipalities should be represented in the sample work.’;» [[NFKK]] Will the Council of State at least in this analysis involve the parties to whom the majority of the Committee was concerned?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1152	It is such that the analysis and work is now being carried out by the Ministry of Finance. We aim to endorse this issue in the notification of the forecasting and environmentally sustainable growth of the salmon and trout farming industry. To that end, it is fully possible to make representations from all parties to the work done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1157	Thank you again for your answer. What surprises me a little bit is that the majority of the majority in this House have come to know through a majority comment on how we want this to be implemented. Then my question is: don't the majority remarks from the Storting count anything to the Council of State, as she relates to them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1164	We are now doing a job, as the Storting has asked. Then an interministerial working group has been set up. Now we're doing an analysis, and then we're going to sign out the question in a big message. Then it is possible for all parties to make good representations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1169	Then we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1176	This question, from the representative of Marianne Aasen to the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, has been transferred to the Minister of Industry, which is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1179	I would like to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘The Government has now announced that Norway will not participate in the Copernicus space programme. How can the Council of States defend that we are now weakening our position as a strong and competitive player in space technology in Europe?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1188	Norway participates with large amounts in a wide range of EU research and development activities. In 2015, we propose to grant over 2 billion. EUR 224.4 million for participation in EU Framework Programmes. to participate in the EU satellite navigation programmes EGNOS and Galileo. Plus 505.6 million. in the various programmes of the European Space Agency (ESA). The decision not to participate in Copernicus in the 2015 budget has not been easy. It is now that policy – and not least the State budget – is a priority. There are several good purposes that have not found their place in this year's budget. That's the way it is, and it's always been. However, the allocation to space activities in the State budget for 2015 amounts to a total of 857.2 million. kr. Participation in Copernicus would have resulted in an additional allocation need of 167 million. SEK in 2015 and a total of SEK 1,14 billion. kr for the entire programming period until 2020. The government makes clear priorities in the State budget. We have said that we need to improve the framework conditions for business – and we do. We have significantly increased appropriations for transport, for growth-promoting tax havens and for increased efforts on knowledge, innovation, research and industrial R & D. It means – as I said – that not all good purposes can be given priority. As a result, participation in Copernicus did not reach the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1199	I would like to thank the Council of State for an honest answer. I still want to drill a little bit more in this. The information to which the environment has access is very significant in terms of environmental and climate policies, marine monitoring, research and social security. It's an important program. There's cross-political agreement on that. It's a big surprise in the environments that we're not in on it. The problem is that it affects how the priorities of the data on the satellites that we have out there are captured. This means that areas around Norway, for example: will not be monitored, which is very unfortunate. The industry itself is talking about a potential loss of between 80 and 100 million. the euro because of this. One dollar in it means six to seven dollars back in industry. My question is: does this mean that the government is weakening space research in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1208	As I explained, we have a significant investment in space research. It's not like something's going to be cut when we don't participate in Copernicus. So there were questions about participating in a new, quite expensive program, and I've been clear that it didn't come about in a difficult priority of many good things. It's hard to say how Copernicus' device becomes. The consequences are divided into two parts for Norwegian business. One is that we can't be on that device, the other is that you can't participate on the business side in contracts related to the program. But we get the data that comes out of Copernicus -- they're open to everyone, including our businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1215	The challenge when you're not on that type of program is that you lose network capabilities and contact surfaces. This significantly weakens the potential of the research to which the Council of State refers that we are already granting money. We are now weakening good research environments in areas where we are very competitive, and we are removing ourselves from the networks, such as: affects whether we are getting better results in Horizon 2020. We're losing partnership, we're losing contact. We don't join the next generation on the development page in collecting the huge amounts of data that can eventually be derived from that type of satellite surveillance. In addition, the programme is moved from ESA to the EU, which further weakens our European relationship, since we are not a member of the EU but are a member of ESA. My question is whether the Council of State sees any other possibility of getting on these networks when this program is cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1222	I agree that not participating has consequences. Then we're probably in disagreement about the extent of the consequences, because, as I said, we're proposing for 2015 to grant over 2 billion. to participate in EU programmes. We have a network, and we are working very actively with EU programmes. For the space sector, we allocate 857.2 million. kr. So we're active in the networks, but we don't want to participate in Copernicus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1227	Then we go to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1235	The question is: ‘The Council of State wishes to sell the State’s shares in Mesta, which has been authorised by the majority of the Stortinget. In the Bergens newspaper in November 2013, the Council of State is quoting that she believes that a best possible industrial solution for Mesta can be achieved by selling it to a buyer with knowledge of the industry. Can the Council of State assure the Government that a long-term industrial solution will be prioritised when the sales process is under way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1244	As the representative Botten points out, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, on the basis of a mandate from Stortinget, has initiated a process for the sale of State shares in Mesta AS. It appears from a press release sent by the Ministry on 9 July this year. I am generally concerned that changes in the country's ownership positions are carried out in a way that is professionally and commercially sound and that safeguards the values of the country. Of course, this also applies in the process of selling the state's shares in Mesta. It is therefore an overall objective of the State to implement a sale to the best possible economic conditions from the perspective of the State. That consideration indicates that we are open to different types of buyer. Having said that, I would like to be concerned that potential buyers act responsibly, and that they have the necessary prerequisites to further develop the company. I see it, among other things. as a natural fact that purchasers are aware of industry and other relevant conditions. This also applies to any so-called financial actors who may be interested in buying Mesta. We do not have any urgency in this matter. We will work for good solutions for the company, for the employees and for the state as owner. The Ministry has, among other things: a good dialogue with Mesta's board on the matter. We have also met and received views on the matter from the Norwegian Arbeitsmandsförbund, which represents many of the employees. Now this process is still at an early stage, but when the time comes for it to become a reality, the Department will normally make an overall assessment, where the consideration of the company's development, of the employees and of the State that owns is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1259	The Council of State started by arguing that it was important in this sale to get the best possible economic conditions. I have to ask the Council of State again whether that is what is necessary, that the state should have the best possible conditions when selling this, or whether it is the competence environment that is important for the operation and maintenance of our roads, and that one should have an industrial actor who knows this well, when one is going to go into a process further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1264	I believe in itself that I have answered that question. I concluded by saying that we should make an overall assessment, where consideration is given to the development of the company, to the employees and to the State that owns it. We're going to make a total assessment, just as I guess the red-green government did when last summer it sold Eves to two private equity companies outside Norway, one in Sweden and one in America, probably based on what was best for maximizing state values, but also for what they thought was best for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1269	Then it might be interesting to get information about how the Council of State, which has the authority to sell Mesta fully, wants to look at that overall assessment. What's the most important thing? Is it also the case that you think about the ownership structure further in that company, so that you can be an owner, or are you going to sell out completely? Is this the main assessment? And, if so, are there many small owners you want to have in the company you are going to sell in the future, or are you concerned about getting a large owner, who has competence, who can run this safely and have a long-term focus?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1274	We have come too short in the process to be able to answer the questions asked by the representative. We're going to answer them when we've spent time on a professional assessment of how we're going to handle a sales process in Mesta, similar to what we've done with Entra. I really enjoyed being with a lot of employees in Entra last Friday. Two thirds of them have bought shares in their own company. We're going to do this in a good, professional way, which ensures the company, secures the employees and secures the values of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1283	‘Kay Rune from Arendal was hit at the age of 25 by a virus that left him paralyzed from the neck down. [[42]] He experiences a municipal system that is more concerned with acuteness than finding good holistic solutions that help him in his everyday life. This issue has been duly addressed, among others. through several reports in the Agderpost, without it looking to help. What will the Council of State do to enable him and others in his situation to live a dignified life without having to fight against bureaucracy and rigid rules?"
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1290	I am, in the same way as the questioner, concerned that our healthcare, whether it is government or municipal, should meet the user in a good way and not least involve the user in the decision on the services to be provided. My message to the service is that as a patient a patient will experience that no decisions will be made about me without me. It follows from Section 3-1 of the Health and Care Services Act that the municipality must ensure that persons staying in the municipality receive the necessary health and care services. The concept of "necessary health and care services" means proper treatment at the right time and in sufficient quantity. This is underlined by the law by a specific requirement in Section 4-1 that the services provided by the municipality should be sound. Municipalities are independent legal entities. Of course, they are legally responsible for the services they provide to the population. As the Council of State, I cannot intervene and review a municipality without the law. Disabled persons must be able to live a good life without having to fight against bureaucracy and rigid rules. One of the first things I did as a health and care minister was to ensure the right to organise services as user-led personal assistance, BPA. User-controlled personal assistance is intended for persons with extensive disabilities and shall contribute to the user’s ability to live an active and as independent life as possible. As the supervisor, the user can decide for himself which tasks the assistant is to perform, and when – within the framework of the decision and the rules of the labour market. Studies show that BPA is a system that largely meets users’ expectations and requirements. I believe it is of great importance that people who have a great need for assistance also have the opportunity to be the boss of their own lives. The government’s guarantee of rights, as decided by the Storting, will facilitate the achievement of its objectives in life by people with disabilities and a high need for assistance, and will be able to manage the allocated service resources as he or she deems desirable and appropriate. It is important that municipalities are aware that they have a responsibility to meet the requirements of the law and not least are in dialogue with users, and together with them find out what are the best solutions for the services that are not organised as user-led personal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1307	I didn't expect the Council of State to go in and manage individual municipalities, but I think it's nice that there are clear signals coming out to the primary municipalities, because I think that's what is needed in many cases – even in this case – and that the user should be active in the design of the services. Unfortunately, this has not happened in this case. There has been a lot of focus on the matter, and it went so far that the user himself had to go to the step of looking up the media, where one among others. I can read that he has to search to pick up his glasses. Worst care, says part of those who work in the sector. Kay Rune himself says that the municipality takes away all dignity from him. Perhaps the Council of State can answer the following: How does the Council of State think that public aid should meet people like Kay Rune and others, who have a great need for help?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1314	Of course, I cannot go into the specific matter, but as I said, I believe that the municipalities should meet their employees, not least the users of municipal care services and other services, in a way that involves the users in the decisions taken – not with a top-down attitude, not with reference to rigid rules or paragraphs, but in dialogue with the users. It is also the case that the Storting has established a patient and user ombudsman system, and I am very concerned that instead of always referring residents to complain to the County State, which is a rather demanding process, there are many who have good experience in contacting patients and user representatives, and use them to get help to get a better dialogue, for example. with a municipality or, in some cases, with specialist health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1321	I thank you again for the answer. I think that the patient representative in some places works very well in that area, while there is probably a bit of varying experience with what is the control device, both county doctor and patient representative. But maybe we can come back to that on a later occasion. I am pleased with what the Council of State says about dialogue, and the clear signals that here the user must be in the centre, and that it should not be necessary for a user to have to use the media, politicians and others to reach out when someone has an obvious need for help, as Kay Rune and others have. What I might reflect on is the administrative practices that often apply in primary municipalities and elsewhere, and that may not always be consistent with the law. How can we make this work better, and can we possibly look at the law versus administrative practices, so that users get the help that we all think users should get?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1330	The representative is in here on very fundamental and important questions. We do not know enough about the quality of municipal care services. That's the absolute reason to establish. That is why I have also proposed, in the state budget now presented, the establishment of a quality register for municipal care services in order to have more knowledge of the quality of those services. We are now working on a big message about municipal health, where we will not least raise questions about how to ensure better quality in these areas. I am convinced that in this context there are two crucial factors. It's competence and management. There we have great challenges. We need to increase the overall competence of municipal care services and, not least, develop better management.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1341	‘6. The Minister of Health said this May that the cultural spa is a good arrangement to be continued. In the State budget for 2015, it has been removed. In 2014, counties received 30.8 million. kr through the cultural walking stick. Can the Minister of Health give a detailed overview of 15.4 million. kr in increased appropriations for environmental treatment training and for the development of activities and culture in the care services involve, and explain how it replaces the cultural spa?"
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1348	The use of art and culture in the care service can serve many different purposes. Art and culture can be part of good care and can create meaningful community experiences in everyday life. So it can be care and care, it can be entertainment, and not least culture can have a therapeutic and therapeutic effect. In recent years, cultural and cultural resources have been allocated through the Cultural Spaserstick scheme. We have made a clear priority and believe that the municipalities have many opportunities to secure the part of this that is entertainment, through the grants that they already give to local culture. That's why we've now prioritised the state's efforts to build up competences in what is really using culture and music in therapy. This is well documented, and it works very well, in connection with both care and activities. It works well against anxiety, depression and detoxification and contributes to less psychotropic use. That's why we're proposing a re-priority, and now we're going to spend five million. to further develop and disseminate training programmes on environmental management and integrated use of music and song for care staff. Furthermore, it is proposed to re-prioritize 10.4 million. to develop activities and culture in the care service. The funds are invested in a new competence and innovation grant to municipalities. The total amount of grants in this area is approximately 260 million. kr, and the aim is to stimulate local authorities to implement measures of competence and development based on local conditions and needs. The funds may include: contribute to the development of innovative cultural services for users. The funds shall be managed by the State and shall be seen in the context of the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation’s discretionary contribution to municipal innovation and development. In addition, the Ministry of Culture proposes to re-prioritise its part of the funds and to support the Kraftak project for singing, including: singing in the care of the elderly is an important part of the programme. During a pilot period, singing in the care of the elderly could spread to a larger number of elderly institutions throughout the country. But the most important thing is that as far as the part that can be seen as important and meaningful entertainment is concerned, the municipalities already have a lot of instruments. What municipalities need help from the state is to contribute to enhancing their competence in the use of music and culture as a knowledge-based, integrated part of care and care. We see that this has great, positive effects, not least for elderly people with dementia. This reduces anxiety and also reduces the use of unnecessary drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1363	The cultural spa was created to help older people get a adapted cultural offer on the arenas they live in. When a les Bergen municipalises his annual report from 2013, he shows that the cultural walking stick had 80 different reception places: 40 sick and old-age homes and the rest distributed to service and care establishments, senior centres, day-care centres for the elderly, permanent assembly places run by volunteers, etc. Not one bad word about strengthening the other measures referred to by the Minister of Health – it is important to have more activity in the care of the elderly – but I cannot understand how the Minister of Health thinks that cutting out the provision of culture in the day-care centre, in the senior care centre and for home-built elderly people should contribute to a better care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1370	I have no reason to say that the cultural walking stick has not been a positive feature of the municipal care service. Getting good cultural experiences is something that everyone really enjoys, no matter where you are in life. My question is, where is it right for the state to put in its efforts, and where is it that the municipalities themselves have all the prerequisites for dealing with the challenges? I believe that municipalities, which are the main contributors to local cultural life, have many powerful economic instruments to ensure that older people and others in the care and care sector also have good cultural experiences. Municipalities need help from the state to help employees have the competence to use music and culture as an integral, research-based and knowledge-based part of the therapy. Therefore, this is an expression of a clear priority in which we prioritise competence, and then the municipalities themselves can handle what is entertainment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1377	In Stortinget on 6 May this year, the Minister of Health and Health said this: ‘In recent years, there has been a broad majority in the United Kingdom to grant grants to the Cultural Spaserstick, which facilitates cooperation between the cultural sector and the care sector, so that older people can experience high-quality arts and culture in hospitals and institutions. [[...]] A variety of vocals and expressions has emerged thanks to this grant scheme, and the events have delighted a great many users. The cultural walking stick is a good arrangement, and we therefore want to continue it.» Torstein Watttum, who is the commentator in the Evening Post, asks today: "Have you forgotten what you promised, Höie?" I also have a question: if the government uses the same argument about the cultural school, does the government have plans to train the teachers in song and also cut out the cultural school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1392	I react very strongly to the trendy presentation of this matter by the evening post today, where they write on their own account that we say that the employees will be in charge of the entertainment. That's wrong. Of course, professional and good cultural experiences must be supported by people who work with and in cultural life, either on a voluntary basis or professionally. Municipalities have every opportunity to ensure this for their citizens who need services from the care sector. That's what this is about. It's a clear priority – a priority that was made after May 6th, when I answered this in Stortinget. It is also in line with what a unanimous committee said when dealing with the issue of tomorrow's care. The Committee stressed that: ‘therapeutic use of singing and music against unrest and depression in dementia is shown to be able to reduce both the laxation and drug use in the elderly.’ And... ‘There is a great need to integrate cultural dissemination as a method of treatment and care, and to develop, disseminate and implement new practices across the country.’ That's what the government is following up and prioritizing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1418	This question has been drawn. Question 13 has been answered, so we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1425	«Norwegian Lektorlag reports that in a recent membership survey 57 pp. by the teachers that they have felt a pressure from the school management to give pupils a stand despite high levels of absence. In the book Bak façade in Osloskolen, author Malkenes comes with criticism that the focus of the results leads teachers to lower the requirements for setting top characters. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the strong target management regime does not weaken confidence in the results and prevent artificial characterisation from concealing reality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1432	The question concerns two different issues. One issue from Norsk Lektorlag is whether the teachers, the employees, think they have the basis to characterize. The second question, which is a statement that comes into a book that one called the Milkes has written, is that there is a more general pressure to put a better character. First of all, I'm concerned that we should have confidence that you should be able to trust that the results of your school students are correct. So to the first problem: we have received signals that some teachers are experiencing unclear rules on absenteeism, assessment given along the way in the training and the basis of the position character being set. The uncertainty surrounding the issue of absence is linked to the amount of absence that can be accepted for the teacher to say with reasonable certainty that she has an adequate basis for setting a position. There is often a link between the absence of students and the assessment basis. In addition, the legislation dealing with the relationship between the assessment given in-flight and the assessment of position is perceived as somewhat unclear by some teachers as it is today. Many demand clearer rules on how to clarify the in-flight assessment as a necessary starting point for the point of view assessment. We have sent a three-part letter of assignment to the Education Directorate for Assessment. In one of the parts of the letter of assignment, we ask the Directorate to propose models of how to introduce an absence limit that can clarify the student's duty to be present at school in order to ensure that teachers have a good and varied assessment basis. In addition, the Directorate shall examine proposals on how legislation can make it more clear that the assessment given in-flight is an important starting point for the assessment of the position. The proposal is scheduled to be sent to the spring 2015 hearing and the changes will be ready from the next school year. It is the professional assessment of teachers that is the basis for determining a position character. In addition, according to current legislation, the principal is responsible for the positioning of professionals. The reassessment may be requested by the principal if he is in doubt about compliance with the rules for the establishment of position characters. If it turns out that there is no basis for setting a position character, e.g. because the student has been too absent, the Vice-Chancellor is responsible for the adoption of a single decision not to grant a stand. I take it very seriously that several lecturers report that they feel pressured to give a position assessment they do not think they have the basis to give. Professional integrity and judgement are an important part of teacher professional responsibility. I believe that clarifying the legislation could help teachers to facilitate their professional judgement. Work on assessment for learning, getting more teachers to carry out sensor education and general continuing education could also contribute in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1449	Absence is, as the Council of State addresses, one aspect of my question. That's not what I want to address here, because I think we'll get back to that – probably in a bigger discussion. The main question is, why do teachers score students when they have no basis for doing so? Why do they feel that pressure? Is it because of the absence regulation – that this is the problem? No, I don't think so. The problem is that we have a target management regime that is not primarily concerned with the students. The character is set to give schools, school owners and school authorities an idea of how this school comes out on the ranking in relation to other schools or municipalities. Do the Councils see the challenge of today's target management regime? What will the Council of State do to support the assessment system for pupils’ learning outcomes, not for municipalities and schools’ intercompetition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1456	If it's the way teachers feel pressured to put a stand they don't think it's a basis for professional considerations, it's totally unsustainable. Of course, it is natural that there may be discussion in the college about what a character should be, or discussions about what should be the professional basis for setting a particular character, but there should be no pressure. Then I am a little surprised that the representative skips over the fact that what Norsk Lektorlag has actually asked about, applies to those who feel that they do not have the basis to characterize because of high absences from the students. Then it is relevant, at least, to consider the fact that under the red-green government the schools were able to have a fixed roof removed. Many schools had e.g. a contract, so to speak, with the students, where you said that if the student is gone more than 20 pst, it can't be set. That possibility was removed under the red-green. That, I think, has been an important contribution to the fact that it has become an individualization of the characterisation, which in turn has given rise to what the lecturers here report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1463	The leader of the Norsk Lektorlag, Paulsen, says: ‘We are facing a growing problem where school leaders who compete for the best possible results for their school, more or less explicitly require better results.’ It's like six out of ten lecturers experience pressure to give these characters, and that's not just because of the absence. If they're not there, they have to be able not to set those points of view. But it can seem bad for their school, for their principal, and that means we also have to look at what kind of test beds we have. We have two different test categories, we have the learning support, and then we have the more controlling and ranking tests, like TIMSS, PISA and national tests. I ask again, how will the Council of State work to develop a fairer and more credible assessment system in Norway, where students' actual learning and skills become most important? It won't be fair to the students if they're put on without a foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1475	I fundamentally disagree with that, if the reality description of the representative is that students today evenly cannot be sure whether their grades have a good professional starting point. I fundamentally disagree with that. And then there's a difference of substance, for example. TIMSS and PISA and the national samples. TIMSS and PISA are sample samples that just have a non-learning support function. National tests are for all at certain stages of the year and also have a learning support function. That's one of the points of the national tests. They are used in teaching, and they are also used, for example: to see who in the class needs extra follow-up. This is also the good number that will come eventually. So I think it's good that the schools compete for results, in the sense that they're trying to get the students to learn more – that's good. If there is a development where results are inflated, it will be revealed, for example. through the examination system or through the national tests, and we'll turn that on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1482	The ordinary Questionnaire has changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-10-22.ana.ud143e1495	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
