ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e43	The representative of Arild Grande, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Anders B. Werp for the period from 7 March to 20 March from the delegation of the Grand Duchy to the Interparliamentary Union, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Kenneth Svendsen. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives Sigurd Hille, Hege Haukeland Liadal, Bjørn Lødemel, Kenneth Svendsen and Anette Trettebergstuen from 15 March to 20 March – all to participate in the Conference of the 130th Interparliamentary Union in Geneva On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For the County of Buskerud: Christopher Wand 18-20. March For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliusen 18-20. March For Hordaland County: Iril Schau Johansen 18-19. March For Nordland County: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen 18-20. March For Rogaland County: Øystein Langholm Hansen 18-20. March For Sogn and Fjordane County: Bjørn Erik Hollevik 18-20. March
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e120	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e123	On behalf of the representative of Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on unmarked graves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e128	The representative, Mr Tajik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e131	On behalf of the representatives of Kari Henriksen, Jorod Asphjell, Knut Storberget, Odd Omland and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a new Agder prison, draft value adjustments for Eastern and Western countries and a holistic plan for increasing prison capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e136	The representative, Marit Arnstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e139	On behalf of the representatives of Heidi Greni, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Geir Pollestad, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and myself, I propose that Stavanger Havnesilo be maintained as a grain warehouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e144	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e158	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e172	As Stortinget knows, of course, the document we are considering today is a statutory document, Document 1, which is the control system for the Norwegian administration. The Stortinget is authorised to exercise control over the executive, including: through the annual audit of the accounts of the State. The audit of the year shows the consistently very good management and quality of the government’s accounts and the budgetary disbursement carried out. Of a total of 217 state establishments that have received an audit report, only 8 have received an audit report with reservations. There are 28 establishments that have received significant comments on selected arrangements. It is important for Stortinget, in the light of what I have now said, to be able to establish that, in the opinion of the whole committee, it shows that there is good governance of the state's financial resources. We're going to be happy for that, and this is the reason to underline – as I am doing now. At the same time, the Control and Constitutional Committee takes it very seriously that several of the activities that have received significant comments are major activities responsible for important social services and services of major importance for users and the Norwegian population. I almost don't know how I'm going to get this to be noticed. It's a repeater and a problem for the Storting, the government and the administration that it's the same that goes again several times, and despite the fact that it's being discussed here in the staging room, and that there's agreement between the government and the magnificence that these things need to be corrected, they're not being corrected. I don't know, as I said, how I'm going to be told for it to be noticed. This is no reproach to the current government, I think this is a pretty big system challenge. It's about, for example, The Employment and Welfare Act, the dispositions of the Defence, the Police Directorate, the Railway Agency, the State Road Service and the Children's, Youth and Family Act are constantly criticised. I have been in the committee for the previous period and until now in this period and experience the same thing every year. We obviously have a problem here, because the government – the government, the National Audit Office and the Grand Duchy – are aware of this, but we do not have the power to correct the mistakes properly. I'm saying it this way, I'm addressing the President, because it's important to have this underlined – if not the treatment becomes illusory. It does not have the effect it should have and it does not have the effect that Document 1 should have in this room. That is why I call for the seriousness of the situation, referring to the comments that I – in short – referred to. I'll come back to some of them in a minute. Therefore, there is an overall committee that stresses that action is still required to address significant weaknesses and that the government needs to put in place an immediate plan to improve this in the relevant areas referred to in Document 1. A particular repetition and a challenge for us in the control committee – but perhaps for all political work – is that there are too close-ups between disciplines and that there are different ways of affecting our citizens. This applies in particular, of course, to areas located in the border between disciplines that are weakened as a result of unclear responsibilities. For example, the review of the National Audit Office has: the division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion has shown that children in child protection institutions have not received the training they require and it is unacceptable that those most in need of follow-up do not receive it. It is good that the National Auditor's office will find out, and something has to be done about it by the responsible state councils. The weakest children are also victims in another serious situation that the National Audit Office’s annual review has revealed. The word is discriminatory. There is clear discrimination from place to place and from institution to institution, as the Riksrevision describes it. Unfortunately, in terms of school performance and integration into the classroom, there is also the opposite: some do well and some do less well. Here I've been wondering what expression I'm going to use, but I'm using the popular expression that I think is very comprehensive here: we just can't live with this. We cannot live with the fact that our system, which is as comprehensive as the Stortinge grant so much money – i.e. within the child protection institutions – is unable to meet what is required by law in terms of education and that there are great differences. I'm saying this very seriously, because here the whole Storting understands that we're talking about the parts of our population that are very vulnerable, and that are so-called - with a line under so-called weak groups. Discrimination also takes place in several administrative areas. We can understand that it may be a challenge to ensure equal practice of legislation in complex organisations, but discrimination is very serious. It undermines the principle of equality, and it has to be cleaned up. Another example of discrimination has been identified in an area where I am the case rapporteur, and there is an overall committee that looks very seriously at the Riksrevision’s detection of discrimination in relation to the notification of non-submission of declarations by self-employed persons. I see that the Minister of Finance is present, and that's good, because of course this is directed directly to her subject area. For this reason, the Committee notes that there is immeasurable discrimination between citizens in this area and must cease with immediate effect. Whereas it is necessary to establish a consistent practice in this respect; The National Audit Office points out that there are challenges related to internationalisation, and that in several areas of governance significant shortcomings and weaknesses have been identified in dealing with the various aspects of increasing globalisation, and considers this to be serious. The Committee also agrees to this. Stability is fundamental to trust in governance and the Committee is very pleased that the Riksrevision has carried out a survey of the prevention and detection of maladministration in central government. However, we do not believe that the results are uplifting, as most departments have not carried out concrete assessments of the risk of disparity — that in several departments and businesses there is a lack of routines to ensure that new employees are aware of the sustainability requirements of the Administrative Act, and that the same applies to the procedures for reminding new employees and hiring out of the requirements for viability. The departments are asked to follow up the National Audit Office’s recommendation in this area, and the Committee believes, of course, that the other recommendations of the National Audit Office should also be followed closely by the respective departments. The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Environmental Party The Greens have their own comment in this year's setting based on Document 1, Innst. 123 S for 2013–2014, which deals with target and result management, to which I would like to make some comments. When the July 22 Commission, led by Alexandra Bech Gjørv, presented its report, it was stressed that several authorities in the field of emergency services were not functioning properly. The targets were too many, the verification of them too poor. Int. 210 S for 2012–2013 pointed out to the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre that the target management may have been: ‘to prevent good and qualified decisions from being made by those who know the area best and prevent establishments from learning from experience and developing better services’. We then added, in connection with the vote on the 22nd of July, that it should be for the future. ‘an overall task of ensuring that the objectives developed for public agencies are few in number, qualitative and that employees themselves are involved in shaping these objectives, within the framework of overall policy and annual budgetary frameworks’. It is repeated in the setting of the year. This does not mean that the Workers' Party believes that target management as such is an evil. For example, we want to do this. also in the future need to measure the number of people being cured for cancer or the number of people getting an apprenticeship. However, on a general level, it must be recognised that everything cannot be formulated or solved through a number of individual objectives to be tested. These were my general remarks, which I wanted to make to the Stortinget regarding Document 1. With regard to the various subject areas, I refer here to what is the position in the areas where I am the case rapporteur, and I assume that the other members of the Committee – if they find the basis for this – will comment on their subject areas. The last thing I want to say is that the committee will express great satisfaction with the work of the National Audit Office. There is a thorough work in Document 1, which is a continuation of the good work done by the National Audit Office in the various areas, and it provides a very good basis for the treatment of the control activities in the Stortinget at an overall level, as we are discussing it here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e225	I can start by spinning a little bit further on the legitimate praise that has become the Riksrevision. I'm impressed by the thoroughness of their systematics, and the documents we get are easy to work with. They give sense, even if you're not at home in the individual organization or administration. I will also be able to join the committee chairman as a background for the matter, and I will join the committee chairman in identifying the recurring problem, as you might call it. It is that single faults will always occur, so to speak, natural accidents will always occur, but if there is a pattern of repeaters, you can start to ask if there are also problems with management or systems in the organisations. It is therefore important and right to take an interest in areas of reoccurrence, as the chairman of the committee pointed out, also because the Committee needs to take an interest in what is more systematic. We welcome it when the Workers' Party invites you to a system debate, as they have done in their comments together with their former government partners and the Greens' Environment Party. It was also a subject on which the chairman of the committee was concerned. It was not only limited to the setting that was based on the Gjørv Commission report. The Labour Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Environment Party The Greens state today that: ‘there is a need to change the management systems of the country’. And on the other hand, ‘If the governance principles are not changed and we continue to manage management and well-being more and more as private business, we will not be able to use resources correctly and make use of the skills and capacities of establishments and businesses.’ You have to stop a little now, I think, and ask why these fundamental issues of whether the state is governed by the right governance principles or not, appear after eight years of government and during a period when you have not been in a minority, but have had a majority behind on the Storting and have been able to achieve exactly what you would like. The other interesting question is, what governance principle will be used instead? What is the new guiding principle of the Workers' Party when it is said that market management has received target and result management as a tool? Does the Workers' Party consider target and result management to be market management tools? The reason why we talk so much about the organisation, governance and management of the public sector is that it does not have the correction mechanisms that we find in the private sector that counteract waste. If you are not competent in a regular company that is under pressure from competitors on the price side and customers who go elsewhere if they feel they get better quality, you have a very powerful driving force every day to improve and not waste the resources. There is a lack of these governance principles that makes us have to have something else in public. I also need to remember what target management was instead of in its time. It replaced a detailed budget line and regulation and detail management, where one became more concerned with doing things based on what the rules said than really using common sense. We live in a society where more and more complex work is done, and where more complex operations are done in our administration than in the past, in what is known as the simpler society. We have employees who manage knowledge to a greater extent. We have high-quality organisations, and they can't be governed by the old regulatory system. Therefore, target management is so important to get to and disseminate downwards. I am, of course, the first to admit that any guiding principle can be applied with imprudence. There could be too many goals. They may become unclear. They can be unattainable. They may not be so specific that they almost resemble a batch program. That's not where the problem lies. Then you get to address it and say that the targets need to be reduced, achievable, specific and feasible. In addition, the problem is that in many places, for safety reasons, old management systems have been maintained, so that the target management principle has been put on top of the old detailed regulation and budgetary management system. Since the Workers' Party has written a note on this, I have to expect it to be thoughtful and intentional, and then I have to ask: When did this market management, which is argued against, become the prevailing governance principle throughout the state area? Was it in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 or 2013? When it is said that there has been no development after the Gjørv Commission, and that ‘a little has changed in market management ideology’, I have to ask: where has the government that has gone off been, if there are such fundamental conditions that you leave yourself unresolved, so that the Workers' Party in opposition must say that the state has been governed by the totally wrong principles. I look forward to the debate, because there is a lot of work to be done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e265	The National Audit Office’s review of government’s accounts shows, which has already been commented on, consistently good quality and good governance. Nevertheless, there is reason to note that several of the establishments have received significant comments. Some of these are also large enterprises responsible for important social services, with a major impact on users. When several of these have received comments several years in a row, there is special reason to look at them seriously. In particular, it is alarming that, in several activities with important societal tasks, there has been insufficient follow-up to previously identified and recognised weaknesses. This concerns in particular the Employment and Welfare Act, the Defence, the Police Directorate, the Railway Agency, the State Road Service and the Children's, Youth and Family Status. Although the main impression is positive, we note that the Riksrevision has revealed several critical conditions in some departments. They point to several reasons that we note: complexity in organisations, but also lack of targeting in governance and culture. I also think it is interesting to note the Riksrevision's observation of too tight bulkheads between different disciplines. It is a fact that clearly prevents the effective use of available information and that leads not least to different treatment of information affecting our citizens. It also mentions a fragmented instrument designed to address new challenges or identified weaknesses, and which may have to solve one problem, but which, because one then loses focus on the whole and the long-term solutions, easily becomes the best enemy of good. One solves one ad hoc problem, but does not focus enough on the overall challenges. Institutions located in different geographical areas also face major challenges in order to achieve the most equal practice of legislation across the country, which in turn may have direct consequences for citizens in an unlucky way. As the rapporteur for the Ministry of Labour's budget and accounts, I would like to point out in particular that the Riksrevision notes that, despite the systematic work of the Working and Welfare Assembly on improvements in recent years, there are still significant weaknesses in several of the department's administrative areas. It is particularly serious that these weaknesses are challenges that have been identified over and over again and that they have a significant impact on some groups of users. However, I would also like to stress that improvements have been made in several important areas. Let me mention someone: First of all, there is a new movement of cases in the run-up area. It is an important area for central user groups. Secondly, improving the quality of the accounts of the State of Employment and Welfare. Thirdly, greater specialisation in matters of professional management with a view to improving performance. We're happy about this. Labour inspectorate shall prevent work-related health damage and promote inclusive working through, inter alia: establishing systems and procedures that include internal control. The Committee has noted that the Riksaudiert is critical of the significant weaknesses in the process of dealing with supervisory activities by the Labour Inspectorate. This applies in particular to a lack of procedures for following open directives to the employer. There is therefore reason to point out the serious consequences this may have for the lives and health of workers, and the lack of good practice makes it difficult to verify whether the procedure has been satisfactorily implemented under the Administrative Act. The findings of the National Audit Office have been documented, raise justified doubts as to the quality of the follow-up to supervision by the Labour Inspectorate and the level of achievement of the primary tasks, and in particular the Committee will highlight the clear responsibility of the Ministry to ensure that the circumstances identified are followed up. I also think there is reason to note the National Audit Office's observation of significant weaknesses in the administration of the instruments to get people to work. This is due to a number of factors: unclear criteria, overlapping objectives and target groups, broad designation of different response and target groups, different price levels in each country, errors in payments to a large proportion of users, and a budget that does not appear to distinguish sufficiently between social benefits and measures. This is serious, because lack of quality will reduce confidence in our welfare management and not least affect people in very vulnerable situations. There is also reason to be critical that the Ministry has not been able to establish a management system that can provide the basis for an administration in line with the overall objective of getting people to work. I find it alarming that, despite the fact that Norway is among the OECD countries that spend the most public money on active measures and benefits underpinning participation and work activity, less than half the participants in work one year after the end of the action. It's serious. The national audit is critical that the management of facilities is still subject to significant weaknesses. This is particularly serious because the same weaknesses have actually been pointed out since 2006. It affects people again in a vulnerable life situation. The Committee now expects the Department to be willing – and not least – to give priority to and address the challenges in this area. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision has identified several weaknesses in the management of foreign affairs, such as lack of overview of the scope, lack of registration, lack of clear organisation, lack of competence and, in particular, lack of statistical tools. We are therefore pleased that the Department now recognises the need for more robust management and says that it will ensure that important improvements are made in this area and that this work is now prioritised in the future. Lack of requirements for fund-building and asset management for private sector contractual pension is also a key challenge to address. However, the Committee has noted that the Ministry, having regard to the AFP Act of Grants, does not consider that it is their task to impose specific requirements on the financing, provision of funds and management of the funds of the AFP scheme in the private sector. However, the Committee considers that the Ministry must pay sufficient attention to the sound management of the funds for this scheme and therefore calls on the Ministry to implement the necessary measures and to establish the necessary control mechanisms to ensure that the funds do not risk losses in the management of the capital. Although we have noticed that in recent years the Labour and Welfare Act has been systematically working on improvements in key areas, some major challenges remain that also have important consequences for users. These are challenges that concern not only the State of Labour and Welfare but also, of course, the department of which it belongs. Therefore, comprehensive action, close follow-up and ability and willingness to find lasting solutions to the weaknesses that have now been identified are required. This is not least about the concern of very vulnerable groups in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e307	I take the floor as rapporteur for the areas of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. First Ministry of Defence: The total expenditure appropriations for the Ministry of Defence in 2012 amounted to 44.7 billion. kr, while the total income allocation was SEK 5,6 billion. kr. The Ministry is responsible for four companies and one company. Three activities under the responsibility of the Ministry have received significant comments for 2012, including the Defence, Defence and Defence Research Institute. The Committee points out that the Riksrevision has for many years pointed to violations of the Public Acquisition Act and that the 2012 audit shows that the Defence continues to make acquisitions contrary to the Acquisition Code. It is serious that, despite repeated comments from the National Audit Office, the defence is still unable to comply with the procurement law as provided for. The Court of Auditors has three important observations, namely: the scope and progress of the LOS material management programme in defence; The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision takes a serious view that the defence has violated the one-year principle and the principle of completeness of the Financial Management Regulation of the State. The National Audit Office is critical of the fact that the Ministry did not satisfy itself that appropriate measures would be taken to prevent further consumption. The Committee endorses this criticism. The Committee noted that the former Council of State announced that, on the basis of the experience gained in 2012, she would have a specific close follow-up in her air defence management in 2013. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry will follow up the recommendations of the National Audit Office to focus on business management requirements and proper reporting in the Defence Management Dialogue. The Committee therefore expects that the measures taken by the Ministry will lead to the future follow-up of the rules on appropriations. For several years, the National Audit Service has criticised different aspects of the implementation of the LOS programme in the Defence. This is the defence's commitment to a new common management system for the economy, personnel and logistics. Due to factors related to the performance of the supplier, the project has been halted for longer periods in order to implement the necessary quality-enhancing measures and to make new plans for both scope and progress. The Committee has noted that the Riksrevision is critical of the fact that, prior to the choice of supplier, the selection process did not sufficiently demonstrate the supplier’s ability to implement it. As a result, final delivery is significantly reduced and almost two years delayed. The delay, according to the Armed Forces Staff, will increase the defence costs by 210 million. kr. The Committee points out that the defence acquires material for approx. 10 B.C.E. kr annually, and the Riksrevision has previously raised issues relating to the accounting of material, including: for the years 2009, 2010 and 2011. The 2012 revision shows that there is a significant lag in the codification of material, leading to significant quantities of material lacking basic data. The proper and timely accounting of material is essential for accounting to provide adequate management information at all times. The National Audit Office considers it serious that a complete central material account has still not been established in the Defence Office. The Committee has noted that the Council of State will follow up the Defence through the established Forums and periodic reports in order to ensure that the work on the control of material stocks can be completed within the recommended time limit of the Defence Manager, 1 July 2014. The Committee expects this work to be given priority, so that the time limit, otherwise set by the Defence Manager himself, is not exceeded. So to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: The total expenditure for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2012 was about 33 billion. kr. The total revenue allocation was 115 million. kr. The Ministry is responsible for two businesses and one company. No establishment under the responsibility of the Ministry has received significant comments for 2012. 85 pst. by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget of 33 billion. kr relates to development assistance, and the Ministry itself manages a significant part of the funds to contribute to the implementation of Norwegian foreign and security policies. The National Audit Office has, for several years, made significant observations on the management of funds by the Ministry. The management of funds in recent years has improved. The Committee welcomes these developments, but the audit nevertheless shows that there are still challenges. The Committee has noted the seriousness of the Riksrevision’s lack of operationalisation of the development policy objectives for focus on action and project levels and on the lack of a performance framework for several funds under the Climate and Forest Initiative. The absence of target and result indicators and the lack of clear reporting requirements make it difficult to assess the target achievement of the initiative and identify the deviations that occur. The Committee refers to the critical comments made by the Riksrevision that the funds allocated to the implementation of the phase of the plan in Indonesia have already been used without the implementation of the three main measures. This applies primarily to the establishment of an independent system to measure and verify reduced greenhouse gas emissions. As of today, it is not possible to identify the level of emissions to be taken into account or to obtain specific data for reduced emissions. Without the implementation of the abovementioned measures, both the implementation, the Memorandum of Understanding and the bilateral cooperation between Norway and Indonesia may be threatened. As the Ministry does not mention these challenges in the reporting in Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013, this may lead to the Storting not being properly informed about the development of cooperation between countries. The Committee considers this to be extremely unfortunate. The National Audit Office has the following recommendations for the Ministry: ensure the establishment of a performance framework for risk-filled assistance projects to facilitate nuanced reporting to Stortinget as a basis for the treatment of allocation proposals; establish follow-up procedures and strengthen the organisation of the ministry in a way that ensures consistent management and reporting of results of climate and forest action; The Committee endorses the recommendations and calls on the Ministry to give priority to the follow-up of the three actions listed by the National Audit Office. On behalf of the representatives of big business Kenneth Svendsen, I would like to make a few comments to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The National Audit Office has no significant observations on the Administration of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in 2012. Seven final audit reports have been submitted in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, but none of the establishments have received significant comments. In particular, the Committee has noted that Bioforsk, which was previously a replay with significant observations on the accounts for the years 2008 to 2011, is now showing clear improvements, so that for 2012 a ‘clean’ audit report can be issued without significant comments. This is the committee's satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e363	When you read the National Audit Office's report on the annual audit and control of the budget year, you might ask yourself: why are we really becoming politicians? So you say, well, we mean that we're going to make society better, we think we're going to do better for people, especially the weak in society. I believe that most politicians want to create security – that citizens should feel safe in their own country. There are clearly political divisions and major political disagreements in many fields, but I think we all expect that what is adopted is also followed up by establishments and businesses. What has been raised by the National Audit Office in the field of transport, but especially in the areas of justice and child protection, is, in my view, very alarming. I will support what the committee leader and the case-rapporteur Martin Kolberg said, and I will make some comments on these two areas. First to justice: It is stated in Document 1 that in the last ten years the Riksrevision has pointed out a lack of enforcement capacity in the police. These include both weaknesses and poor practices in the field of ICT management, information security, reconciliation of fees, acquisitions, salaries, staffing, seizure management, achievement of objectives, civil justice, internal control, arms management, etc. The July 22 Commission also referred to the poor enforcement capacity of the police in its report. Then it's tempting to ask a question: what are we doing? There was a lot of debate after July 22nd, and especially after the report, about what would be done, and about everything that would be so much better. And so much focus you should have on preparedness and security, and you should change culture. So some officials – and it has also appeared in the media, from different agencies – say that things are back to what they were. One has gone back to what it was before it happened, and the very large and extensive changes that we were going to make have been absent. It's serious. It is serious what the Riksrevision points out, and it is also serious what the representative Martin Kolberg says. The core of democracy is to guarantee the security of the individual. If the state cannot even give security to its own citizens – creating that security and that feeling – then there is something fundamental that we know about democracy itself. This is serious, and I expect both the Minister of Justice and the Government, and also the Stortinget, to follow this up more closely. As far as child protection is concerned, it has been pointed out by the National Audit Office that there is a lack of equivalence of services and services; there is insufficient cooperation both internally and with neighbouring services; there is incomplete reporting on key elements of the activity. Subjects dealing with child-restraint cases have an extremely long period of time. Despite the fact that more money has been allocated and greater demands have been made on the achievement of the goal, it is still not possible to get what you want. Then we see that children living in child protection institutions do not receive a fully-fledged training offer. They get a much worse education than the rest of the population. There is poor quality in institutions, poor competence in children's rights, and the National Audit Office is also concerned with creating greater differences. Children are the weakest in society, especially the children who come into contact with public child protection. They may have been subjected to violence, perhaps sexual assault, or there are other reasons for coming into contact with child protection. These children, whom society is to help, are not given the help that society is to provide, because of lack of etat management, because of lack of competence, because of different culture in Bufatat, etc. I myself was in a child-care facility, and I saw a lot of it on my own. What's surprising, and perhaps disappointing, is that after so many years, so little has happened in this area. That's the way it was before. If you first enter a child protection institution, it is more likely that you will have to go even worse – it is almost tempting to say so. Several of the people I lived with, I've met. Some of them have died at quite a young age, but many have ended up as prostitutes, drug addicts, and vancriminals. These are the very, very weakest, which we do not follow up. The lack of competence in child protection and the fact that more experts are involved – I'm not going to go into the political divide – I think everyone, politically, wants to do something about it. Then you can ask yourself, why isn't there anything done about it, when everyone wants to? I don't think I've ever heard a single politician say that you don't want to help children with child protection, or that you don't want to do anything for the weakest in society. We look at the reports from NOVA, for example. violence against children, in particular in certain cultures or in certain environments, is more frequent than elsewhere. It is not that ethnic Nordics do not beat their children or do not expose their children to abuse, but one might say that the cause picture is different. The fewest ethnic Nordics – we have heard of some – beat their children because they believe it is best for children to be beaten, that beating their child will be for the benefit of the child, that it will get better education and become a better person. Some people believe it, but it's very few. Then there are other cultures in which one believes that the physical behavior of one's child by "trafficking," that is, child by violence, is in the best interests of the child. NOVA's reports show that in some cultures it might be the rule. There's a high number of children, percentage, who in some cultures are exposed to this. Children’s protection institutions do not have the competence to do so. Just as they do not currently have the psychological competence to provide refugees coming to Norway with the help they need to deal with the mental challenges they may experience when coming from war-torn countries, child protection does not have the competence to help those children and families who need help in a situation where children are exposed to so-called client violence. It's about going back. At some point, we stopped beating our children in Norway — mainly, you might say. It didn't just happen because the legislator decided on a paragraph that said it's criminal now. There's very little we do or don't do just because a paragraph says it. As a rule, it also needs an internal change. We have to think for ourselves, and we want to think that beating children means harming the child's self-image. That means you're doing something about the child's ability to learn. You do something about its relationship with authorities. You hurt the baby. It is the societal debate, the knowledge debate, that we had in Norway many, many years ago — decades ago — that has led to a gradual change in behaviour. It's not many years since there was a case in the Supreme Court about whether earrings or rice on the butt were allowed; was within the law. You've always gone in to clarify the law. But in some cultures, you have to raise children with violence because it's part of the way you were raised yourself. Not all immigrants beat their children. Looking ahead: in a country like Norway, which has a population with many more minorities, there can be no child protection that is unable to introduce relief measures into the homes of families from other cultures, because it has no competence, either linguistically or culturally. It's not like any other way of raising children is a child protection issue. But when it comes to violence against children, it's a child protection issue. Here, child protection is too small, because you're not well enough rusted to meet the reality we now have. I'm worried because minority children are in a way even weaker than the other children. The reason for this is that the language skills are lower, partly because of the fact that you are often trained to keep what is inside the house's walls secret. You don't talk to others about this. When you say that you have been subjected to violence to someone, who may be the first – if the teacher does not see it, if there are no visible marks in the face or on other visible parts of the body, as you can see in the gym, for example, if no one sees it and it does not get caught up in that way, you must actively tell yourself. But at the same time, when you tell, feel inside, and are mannered in that way, that you blackmail your family – this is shameful, and you citizen for the family's honor – the threshold is to tell even higher. When these children meet with child protection, and child protection is not competent to meet them and help them, there are already weaker, vulnerable children in Norway who meet a public institution that has neither cultural competence nor resources to provide them with the follow-up they need. Already today we know that approx. Every third non-western immigrant child in Norway is growing up below the poverty line – if we are to discuss the poverty line. The reality is that approx. 33 pst., every three non-western immigrant children in Norway, is growing up under poorer economic conditions. Many of them have parents who are illiterate. Several of them come from war-torn countries. Then you get on top of this with domestic violence and other things, not just violence. The physical violence is the clear, obvious reason why child protection is intended to do something is to intervene, where appropriate by different measures. But you also have the psychological side, the mental violence, the oppressive culture, that might follow. To this one travels from a country in Asia or in Africa – I can mention my own country of origin: My parents come from Pakistan. Today there are very many citizens who travel back to their homeland, their country of origin, and marry. If you pick up a spouse from that country, the physical journey takes a few hours. In eight hours, people have moved from the rural areas of Pakistan to Oslo, Bergen or where it is now in Norway. Then we – and child protection, school and others – have to ask the question: How long does the mental journey take? It is the mental journey to which the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion will contribute. That's what integration is about. Then it's the children who were born in Norway. You could call them immigrant children, but they're Norwegian children. When you are allowed to be here and you are born in Norway, you are a Norwegian child and have the right and the right to receive the same treatment as any other child. These are the children that Norway – I would say so strongly – has failed the most and continues to fail the most, both because they are poor and you do not have enough measures to help their families out of poverty, and because they usually get a school start where they cannot Norwegian. When you are then subjected to family violence, child protection is not the public thing to help them up. Parts of what the Riksrevision points out here are very, very serious. This is something you have to deal with. I am the rapporteur on the subject of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. None of the underlying agencies have received significant comments here. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of Oil and Energy is still unable to demonstrate an overall risk assessment in order to follow up the risk of non-achievement, but this is a work to be undertaken. Finally, I would like to say that what the Riksrevision points out is important things, which I believe are important that we follow up. I agree with the chairman of the committee, Martin Kolberg, who said and underlined. As a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee and as a member of the Stortinget, I expect what has been pointed out to be followed up in a proper, effective and responsible manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e409	Let me start with a story from my own part of the country. There was a janitor who had one foot that was a little longer than the other. He walked with that foot for many years, and finally it became a big problem, he got stupid hips. He was such a person who never used the healthcare system, but after a while he was persuaded by a very strong order that now he had to contact the healthcare system and get this right here. He got an hour on what later became UNN – this was in the 1980s, RiTø thought it was called then – and got surgery, and they just took off and shortened their feet. It turned out that they had shortened the foot that was too short, so when he came back again – he kept on Svalbard – it was one foot even longer than the other, so he had to return to RiTø. There he got the long foot twice as much. But as he himself said, he was a human being who looked forward to life: I now had such short legs from before, it does nothing. It's a nice example of what we have here, because what I want to do is look at Document 1 and Document 3 in context. It's a diagnosis, and then it's a medicine. It is the analysis of the year that has passed, and then it is the follow-up to previous measures and the follow-up by the Riksrevision. Is it a good context, or is it such that a driver and has a good analysis of the situation, but then implements a wrong action? It's my claim that one has understood the situation, and then one with the same mistreatment of the problem. The starting point for SV is that we need a knowledge-based management. That means we're going to use the management models that we know from both research and experience works best to operate this country in the best possible way. I don't think anyone disagrees with that, but if you look at the management model we're building on today, which is anchored in the regulations on the allocation, the economic code, etc., then there's reason to wonder if this is a state of the art management model for Norwegian society. In recent years, management policies have increasingly taken inspiration from market theory-inspired solutions, known during the New Public Management survey. The key features of New Public Management are, after the 2006 Christensen survey: The introduction of quantitative results as a measure of clear control and penalty systems attached to it. Stronger leadership and less self-reliant for the individual. Increased use of contract relationships. Increase competition. We recognize a lot of these things in Norwegian administration, to put it mildly. So the first thing that characterizes New Public Management is that it shifts the perspective away from the inner motivation of people and adds to an external motivation. This idea is reflected in how a number of central public services are organized today, such as hospitals, care, child protection, school, transportation, higher education, to name someone. I'll come back to even more examples based on what's in Document 1. The purpose of New Public Management was to bring about a more efficient public sector. But it turns out that the changes have not led to more efficiency. There are few or no measurements to show that efficacy has increased significantly. As Professor Tom Christensen of the University of Oslo says: ‘This type of reform has simply not met the expectations of increased efficiency.’ [[...]] Terje P. Hagen, Professor at the Institute for Health Management and Economics at the University of Oslo, says that ‘we have carried out major reforms and that the effects have been small’. Rather, there are quite strong signs that New Public Management has provided people with poorer and more expensive services through lower productivity, less long-termity and increased bureaucracy. The representative Tetzschner took this up with a goal. No one disagrees. Goals are very important, we see ourselves goals every day when we get up in the morning. The problem is — as Tetzschner also said — when you start to get too many goals, when you start the day, for example. as a police officer, with more than 120 different quantitative targets, or as in hospitals, where one has estimated that there are about 285 different quantitative targets. Adds that they spend more time on reporting and control than on the very things they are supposed to produce from services. In medical inquiries, over half of them have said that they spend more time reporting than they do in the treatment of patients. Teachers tell about similar types of modes. This is also related to municipalities, but it is not part of the National Audit Office's review. With this form of over-targeting, as we might call it, one has gone quite a long way and based on the intention of the Financial Regulation to set a higher-level objective. One establishes so many comprehensive goals that an intervention in the everyday life of those added. This form of target management builds up under a sense of distrust that goes at the expense of the competence and the commitment of the addendum. It's also a strong hallmark of New Public Management that it's adding up to privatisation. If you read the Rules of Procedure of the State that was adopted in 2003, you can see that it contains some kind of sensible target management thinking, but then, when you read a little later in the document, you see where it starts to go wrong, where you start to get on the road. A location in the document contains: ‘The Ministry, in consultation with the activities, shall define the needs and the scope and content of the reporting. The reporting shall describe the achievement of the objectives and the results. The reporting of results may include inputs, activities, products and services as well as impacts on users and communities within the whole or part of the area of responsibility of the activity.’;» So here's a regulation where the National Audit Office is going to go in and make sure that they're really adding what they're doing to their everyday lives. The requirement to establish quantifiable parameters becomes so extensive that we now see the result, after eleven years with this system. The national audit itself points out in Document 1 – which I think is a very good document, a very good analysis and a very good summary – in one of the summary points where the title is: ‘Deficient achievement of objectives in several areas as a result of lack of coordination.’ It is all-round that the activities are so concerned with their own objectives that they oversee the joint objectives and the cooperation disappear. Examples that will be dragged up there include: Altin, how unsolved tasks are related to problems with cooperation between the different departments. The drug commission, which was also brought forward in the past, is a sad example of much the same, that poor interaction between various police activities is probably a contributing cause of the sad incident on July 22nd. An overbureau cratisation was also demonstrated that one has powdered responsibility. You get a kind of a zero error culture, where it becomes more important not to make mistakes than to do something. This must be cleaned up. We are clearer in our remarks. Karin Andersen, for whom I have resigned today, says in the Committee's position that a need for a move away from this kind of comprehensive governance. We have to focus more on quality and less on quantity, to say it very simply. Another title from the National Audit Office is ‘Fragmented and short-term use of instruments’. And here, too, it's clear how things have gone wrong. The audit points out that there are many places where a fragmented tool tool is located, and that this may prevent sound and long-term control. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, a ‘triggering the use of State instruments towards more holistic and long-term solutions to ensure better use of resources, increased impact of actions and thus better overall achievement of objectives’ should be considered. The whole idea here is that one should override more things and not detail them. Then we come to Document 3:1, which is the medicine, the second thing on the agenda. The analysis will be followed up by measures, such as: reduced target management, reduced control and increased confidence? No, that's the opposite. On health professionals, the Riksrevision wrote: ‘Since financial management and cost control have developed positively in recent years, the Ministry has placed greater emphasis on the establishment of service quality objectives and management parameters.’ So one wants more goals. Further: ‘The Court of Auditors welcomes the fact that the Ministry will now start a process of reviewing the governance documents for 2014. This process is important for the design of the mission document to be used in line with the guidelines for target and result management.’;» – Maybe we could just add: detail management. Also, about the police, the Riksrevision wrote: ‘Most police districts fully or partially agree that today’s targets and parameters for police work do not capture efforts against organised crime. The national audit considers it important to give this work a high priority. Appropriate objectives and parameters could, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, be an important contribution to ensuring that the response to organised crime is captured.’ – Here too, what was initially a problem with too many targets, too many parameters, should be solved by introducing even more targets, so that complete control and control of the activities of those added at work can be achieved. That must be what becomes the logical consequence at the end of this form of thinking. We also see this in the review of their multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts. The road sector is also an interesting example. SV was opposed to postponing competition and creating the merger contract system that we currently have in road maintenance. This has been going on for several rounds in the National Audit Office. We thought it would be poorer maintenance, not better, by putting on such a model. From the watch system we had, we've now got a bureaucratic system, one that doesn't get any answers at all until one at least has filled out some forms about who's going to do what, and who's going to do it. Norwegian Motorcycle Union had a sad example of that, when it was actually a fatal accident because things took so long. The National Audit has gone through the system we have, this market-based system, and said it doesn't work either. One of the measures is to have even more law enforcement. People are going to see that things are done, that is, even more bureaucracy than the National Audit Office recommends. I would recommend that we look at whether we have actually given road maintenance the right medicine, or whether we need to get in with a new system that works. I am pleased that the members of the Committee from the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Swedish Environment Party and the Green Party have, over the last 20 years, developed a governance and leadership culture in the state that builds on a too rigid target management, where the goal achievement is again linked to a gender mainstreaming system. The Socialist Left Party has previously called for an interaction model to replace today's failed system. It directly interferes with the regulations of the promises and the economic legislation. The model builds on the need for professionals to be professionals and the need for smart management of the enterprise to be implemented with fewer targets and performance indicators. Teachers must simply be allowed to be teachers, nurses of nurses, police officers, etc. That's the trust we're built on as a society. We're going to come back to proposals on this, but I'm just going to warn from the Chair that we're coming up with a trust reform based on what we know from research and experience is working – that the internal motivation is a far stronger management of the community's resources than an external detailed management, control and competition. Let me take an example from the hospital. I used to work with nurses. It is also a field where there is extensive detail management and target achievement on different types of conditions. When it comes to nursing homes, smart researchers in the United States have come to realize that one might need only two indicators to find out if the nursing home is being run well. One of the indicators is year-on-year. A key indicator is called a key indicator — an indicator that describes much more than just the year of lay. The number of lay years describes the competence of those who work there, whether they may see a lay year when they see it, whether they check if the patient has a doctor for too long in the same position, etc. The form of thinking in which we establish few, but very smart indicators that are so gathering for the enterprise, I think are future. I believe what we're dealing with today proves how difficult we've got it in Norwegian administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e498	Let me add a few comments to the comments of the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Green Party. The Financial Regulation, Section 9, requires that planned and achieved results be referred to in the Stortinget in relation to the proposals for appropriations. The Financial Management Regulations of the State, Section 4, provide that target and performance management is a basic government principle in the State. Management, follow-up, control and management shall be adapted to the specific nature of the business and to the risks and materiality of the business. The targets set may be both quantitative and qualitative. In other words, there is considerable flexibility in the regulatory framework. However, practices have proved to be challenging. We need to simplify governance, so that political priorities become clear, while giving businesses the freedom to implement policy as effectively as possible and within a regulated framework. Fewer target and reporting requirements are about what we, as state councils, are concerned about in the management of our underlying businesses. If we ask our agencies for too much, they're doing their jobs with a lower quality. It is our responsibility to ensure that the agencies have clear priorities and objectives, and that we in the governance focus on achieving the priority objectives. For this reason, the government has also defined far fewer and clearer objectives in relation to the year's letter of award. But the committee's comment, as I understand it, does not criticise the principles behind target and result management. There are practices that are criticised and, in particular, when they evolve into detail management. We have often seen detailed action and activity management with extensive control. This is not the strategic and clear governance we want. However, there are not many alternatives to target and result management as a principle. I have not heard anyone say that the state should go back to governing the inputs. Before we set reporting requirements, it's important that we take these companies on board. Departments and businesses must agree on what we want to achieve and what it is realistic to achieve. Target and result management is also not the only way we control. Many laws and regulations set limits and, in some sectors, there are also significant elements of user participation and rights. I would also like to point out that statistics on results and activities are necessary to evaluate what works and what does not work, and to further develop the quality of service provision. We have a long way to go when it comes to real target management, even though this has been a requirement of the Financial Regulation for almost two decades. The aim of target and result management is to increase efficiency and make more of the resources available by giving businesses the freedom to decide for themselves the means to be used to achieve the objectives. It is not market governance, but rather against common sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e517	Now that I have asked for the word, it is to correct an error in the setting that concerns the Ministry of Defence. I have unfortunately reported this error in my main post. At the beginning of that, I said, ‘Three activities under the responsibility of the Ministry have received significant comments for 2012 concerning the Defence, Defence and Defence Research Institute.’ It shall state here: One activity under the responsibility of the Ministry has received significant comments for 2012, and this concerns the Defence. This implies that Defence Building and the Defence Research Institute have not received significant comments in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e529	So let's see.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e532	I am pleased that the case rapporteur fixed the error in the setting and that he was also injured to repeat in his article. For it is quite correct, as the rapporteur says, that the National Audit Office has comments on the defence accounts for 2012, but not, as it says in the nomination, also to the Defence Building and the Defence Research Institute. I am committed to keeping the defence sector in order. The defence sector shall comply with legislation, manage resources properly and at the same time make effective use of them. Breach of the code is unacceptable here, as elsewhere. Improvements in governance have been achieved through long-term defence efforts, but major challenges remain. The Ministry of Defence follows this improvement work closely, and I have clear expectations of significant improvements. In Defence Buildings, systematic follow-up to the National Audit Office’s observations and improvements to internal control has given rise to positive developments. Clear leadership, proper competence and good control mechanisms deliver results. I make clear demands on leaders at all levels of defense. The goal is to avoid comments. I have great impatience with the improvement work, and I am personally engaged in this area in meeting with the Defence Chiefs. That's also one of the reasons I'm in Stortinget today. It is good that three of the four agencies in the defence sector have not now received any comments or received any comments for 2011. However, it requires very hard work to keep it that way, and it demands that the defence improves the administration further. Two of the comments on the defence accounts are so-called repeaters, i.e. comments that have been repeated over several years. It concerns the acquisitions and property management of the defence. Significant efforts have been made in defence to improve these areas, which has also made progress. So there's still a lot of challenges. The defence has also received comments for 2012 on breaches of public acquisition legislation. This note applies to direct purchases without competition. The procurement rules are complex and comprehensive, but of course they must be complied with. This is an important prerequisite for sound management and to ensure that the defence pays the right price for the acquisition. The defence’s work on the professionalisation of the purchasing function is one of several important measures for the enhancement of competences and thereby the enforcement of the legislation. The defence has also received a note on material management for 2012. The note relates to the lack of material accounting for sanitary equipment. The Defence Manager has been given a deadline of 1 July 2014 to complete the work. Work is reported to be on track, so that the deadline will be met. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that continued improvement in the material management of the defence is an important objective, and that is a priority area, both in the administration of the establishment and in the work of the defence manager with sound management. I have communicated to the Chief of Defense that I expect further, documented improvements in this area. The Ministry of Defence has followed the National Audit Office’s recommendation to focus on business management requirements and proper reporting in the Defence Dialogue throughout 2013. The Ministry of Defence imposes clear requirements on the competence and professional performance of the administrative work in the Defence. The follow-up of the Air Force has been particularly close in 2013 and will continue to be so in 2014 in the light of demanding and comprehensive in-flight conversion processes. The introduction of a new common integrated management system for the whole Defence of Economics, Personnel and Material Management is demanding. It involves new technical solutions, new work processes and also the reorganisation of parts of the defence activities. In this context, I would nevertheless like to remind you that the so-called LOS programme – formerly the Programme Golf – has contributed to savings and improved financial management in defence. With the current logistic project, which is the last of the LOS main projects, the aim is to introduce new solutions within the new government account plan, business management, ownership management, maintenance and supply. Work has been delayed and has resulted in increased defence costs, as explained to Stortinget at the latest in the last budget proposal. The problems are dependent on the supplier, and it has also been considered to replace the supplier. The supplier, Accenture, has underestimated the complexity of the work in its implementation. As a result, they have spent much more time in the first design phase than was taken into account in the offer. Accenture has now addressed the problems, and they have brought in more personnel who have worked on similar large projects abroad. Since they started the realization phase, work has gone better than expected, and part of the delay has been recovered. The LOS programme and the logistical project will continue to be closely followed up by the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e556	The representative of the County wanted to return to more trust-based governance where professionalism could play a greater role. It's a goal I share, but it's not that easy to combine with what the goal-management principle in its time was meant to three instead, namely detailed orientation and rule-management, where it was more important that you had followed a rule than you had achieved. I also see that SV in its comment has said that it will come back to this kind of organisational development – with alternatives to today's governance models – in the committee. If we can have a dialogue on this in the committee, we'll probably get a lot to do – and a lot to do, so I look forward to it. Otherwise, I have to say that when you listen to the rest of the article, you get the impression that in SV you almost think of it as a private capitalist idea to make sure that the money is not wasted. And then you mix concepts you don't like, market thinking with target management, New Public Management and privatisation. However, neither privatisation nor New Public Management has been the concern of SV – it has not been the concern of anyone in the committee at all. When we designed these comments, the target was the principle of what, with the contribution of the Workers' Party, turned out to be the majority of the Committee. And I think it's a political news when the Workers' Party says three things in the setting. First, they say that the state is too marked by market governance. Secondly, they say target management is a market-thinking tool. And thirdly, which is also interesting, they say that this has to change. So there's at least a reorientation in relation to what the Workers' Party has been running over in practice, in the time they have had the opportunity to rule. The interesting thing is that this is not a faulty formula. It's very deliberate. It's also inside the Inn. 134 S for 2013–2014, coming to Stortinget in a later meeting. Nothing would have pleased me more than that the Labour Party said this was an unconsidered comitology, that it was withdrawn here from the pulpit, and that it was trying to correct the situation that is on its way to the Stortinget. That's what the next speaker will have the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e563	Goals and target management have become a thread in this debate, and I hear it so that goals, trust and values are management elements that are set up against each other. I think that's unfortunate. We all know that leadership is not an exact science. American general Norman Schwarzkopf said after he had successfully conducted the operation "Desert Storm": I don't know what management is, but I know it when I see it. I think we all recognize good leadership at the top strategic level -- visionary, inspiring, we all want to be in, and we provide more than we thought we could. But if the same way of leading is pulled down to lead a large fire station, I am absolutely sure that the employees at that fire station would feel that they had got a fog prince as leader. Similarly: operational management of a service must be detailed, watch plans must be set, you must be able to help those to help. If that way of working is shifted up to the top level, the detail control is not going anywhere. I believe that our comments must be understood in such a way that they relate to the fact that public service production takes place in an organisational structure that – without it being fully comprehensive – can resemble a pyramid. At the top level, the value-based direction is where we're going, without specifying the degree or the number exactly. But as we approach the operational level more and more, we also need to set targets. If we're good and if we're lucky, we set targets that have effect far beyond the targets we set. Then we'll have to call in water. If I can be allowed to use a few examples of what I have now said from a part of Norway that I know well, from our healthcare service, from our excellent hospitals, then let me say that at the overall level, we say in the purpose section of the law governing our hospitals: the purpose is to create and provide equivalent services. So it's not possible to measure the equivalent completely, and it's said to be equivalent, for example. because in a big city it is important to organise the ambulance service so that, if I fall, I can get help in 5 minutes. In many places out in Norway, this is not possible. But we can make it as equivalent as possible, we can make sure that the firefighters nearby are well trained in cardiopulmonary rescue. We can make sure that the local doctors are more good at it than many of the doctors in a big city. That's why it's an example of something that we won't be able to set entirely concrete targets. On the other hand, down to the very operational level, for example: In a hospital, I myself have experience of that once, when I worked there with many competent colleagues, our leaders said: you have to put you together in a group and find out how we can get better, we have too many waiting for our services. Then I think it was an expression of value-based management. They didn't tell us how to do it. Nurses, doctors and doorkeepers sat together, and we found out that we were a little late in the morning. Then we simply agreed that with us, the first patient should be on the operating table by noon. 08.15, and we're going to measure ourselves on that. We made that decision ourselves. As a result, we were able to help many more, and that was something we were able to keep over time. This just says something about how many we were able to help. It's conceivable that the quality didn't go up. It could even be imaginable that it didn't go up. It shows some of the constraints by setting targets. I believe that these debates will be very difficult if we first jump up and down in such a service pyramid. If we also jump out and out of concepts like New Public Management, which, on an advanced scientific level, have clear content, but which I think people use very differently, and if we also jump back and forth between private framework conditions and government, this becomes a debate scene that doesn't bring us forward. Therefore, if I'm going to express it briefly, we're for both value-based management, and we're for target management, but at different doses depending on the level of the service pyramid. Finally, one more example: a few years ago, resistance was determined to record the situation of patients with a certain type of cancer in the intestinal system in Norway. It was registered, it was measured. Then it turned out that some places you survived twice as long as others did. It was very good that we measured it very concretely. Then those who didn't do well got an incentive to get better. They themselves could figure out how they could get better, and then it's become very much more like in Norway. I say yes to such goals, but at the same time, at the overall level, we can have a goal that we should be among the best in the world throughout this care field, without having to make it concrete at percentage or number level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e594	With regard to the discussion that has taken place in this debate related to target management, I really refer to what I said in my first post, where I said something that was very similar to what I now heard that the Council of State Siv Jensen said, namely that target management as such is of course not a bad thing. In many situations, however, it may prevent those closest to them from making the right decisions. That's what the representative Health now illustrated in a very good way. That is what we mean by our remark, and I believe that we should not reject all criticisms that target management also has its negative sides. There are many examples, including in the National Audit Office’s reports, that the Riksrevision believes that the amount of concrete objectives, such as: by the Ministry of Health of the Directorate-General for Health, is a problem for the prioritisation of key areas of Norwegian social life. This is not a clear debate, it is a debate that should be nuanced. I am very aware that it has its ideological side, but the Labour Party has a pragmatic relationship with how to govern the State so that it can achieve our objectives as effectively as possible, and that is what we mean by our remarks – as I have said, and as the representative Are Health has now said. Finally from my side just another small consideration. For certain good reasons – so this is no criticism – the Minister of Defense went, but I would like to tell her through the Minister of Finance that she had a formulation that has been used many times, and that is that many challenges remain in getting the Defense to follow its own rules and the rules that the Stortinget has set. It has been said by former government councils on previous occasions — completely parallel situations. That's what I tried to say in my first post. The challenge for those of us with control responsibilities is that what should not happen. Now I'm just using the defense as an example, I could use other examples. The representative of Gruvan made a very good contribution on behalf of himself and the committee when it dealt with the view of circumstances around Nav. That's the exact same thing as the same criticism. And they say, well, we're dealing with the case, but a lot remains. This can be said once, and perhaps twice, but when it goes over large periods, there is a significant problem for Norwegian administration and for Stortinget. I think that's the most important side of this whole discussion. I do not believe that other sides in and of themselves are not necessary to notice, but in this particular case, I have been with you for so long that I have experienced it directly even many times. There will be difficult documents, it will be pointed out, it will be properly discussed in Stortinget, and then nothing will happen, or it will happen little – too little, to be even more precise. I hope that this, through what I have now said, in the capacity that I now have, can be heard in another way. I'll finally say that it's of course that the Storting only knows the Council of State. The government has been represented here, so everything that's in place, there's no trouble with that. But there might have been a thought if it had become a norm that when Document 1 was dealt with in the Stortinget, the ministerial councils were present. I believe that they had benefited from hearing these discussions, for this is also about the daily running of the administration – not just political governance, but the daily running of the administration, which causes much of what is pointed out in Document 1. It's a thought I've had before, for which I haven't had a significant impact, so I just mention it. Perhaps the Siv Jensen Council could take this with us, so that at the next crossroads we could also have the ministerial councils here. They had enjoyed it very well, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e609	I am pleased that there is consensus in this Chamber that comprehensive, detailed target management of the public sector is the wrong way of governing the public sector. But what are we going to do? The question is, how does the problem flow out, and how big is the problem? Maybe that's what today's real theme is: do we take this sufficiently seriously? Are we sufficiently serious about the challenges pointed out by the Gjørv Commission? Are we sufficiently serious about the analyses presented in Document 1? If the consequence of that treatment is that we're just going to make some small adjustments, I think one has not seen enough seriousness in the situation. Moving from some kind of regulatory system and detailed target management system to a trust system is a major reform, and there is some kind of innovation in government management that you can never adjust to. The problem lies so close around the Norwegian administration today. In this room, the representative Rasmus Hansson told a brief story that a biology and chemistry teacher at a continuing school was required to develop an evaluation system for risk management in biology hours. This did not come from the Education Directorate and those who want to see the health of all these goals in school, it came through the Chemicals Directive and from other actors. If a user's query "ride the beast", the question is: Do we control the beast, or is it such that we just come down and try to adjust the course? If we're going to have control over the management process, we're going to have to figure out where the problems are going, where the problems are. As I pointed out in my article, the problems are very strongly linked to the government's financial regulations. It is stated in black and white that all activities will develop an evaluation form, such as the current biology class will have to be exposed to. Economic legislation was established in 2003. It was under the Bondevik administration. We see that the problems arise in many different types of reforms – which we have seen over time. The problems are going across the whole system. When the government party put forward proposals for the establishment of a regulatory board, as I know from Sweden, I had hoped that one might take on an even greater degree than in Sweden, that one would try to simplify the regulation, so that one would not have many actors who make many different rules and systems. But it's just simplification that has our theme for the Board of Governors so far. If a real one is going to intervene in this, I think one has to intervene in the whole way the state administration is organized. Then we're talking about setting up a new governance model, a new governance vision for the state. So to Tetzschner, which I agree with on many points. I think it's a nice invitation, if we can also develop some unity in the long term. But the representative believes that there is no link between the kind of detailed target management and market placement. I've heard someone mention it before, but I don't expect to hear it in this room. The supply system is entirely dependent on the fact that enterprises can be split into measurable, quantifiable sizes. There is a requirement for you to be able to put something on offer and invite someone to come up with bolder goals and more interesting solutions to problems that you can measure them afterwards, and then to consider whether to continue, or whether to set new goals, etc. So: developing parameters, defining and quantifying different types of parts of the operation, you're completely dependent on driving an operation into an offer process. This is a key to open up for market postponing. That being said, I am very pleased – if I understand the representative Tetzschner correctly – that he does not see the process of developing ever more quantifiable numbers of enterprises as a means of generating more market exposure. I appreciate that, as a socialist. But unfortunately, we see that it's the businesses that have been the most involved in defining measurable sizes, which are also the closest to being offered, and there are also many of the actors who have been offered. So I just want to finish by saying that this is an interesting debate. He slips over into the next case. I don't expect the debate to be as fresh and nice there, but I think this is a very decisive and big discussion, which we in SV will follow further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e624	The representative Michael Tetzschner has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e627	To the previous speaker: of course, the target management of an organisation is not the same as a description of what they are doing in a tender situation. Then we're talking about tender criteria. What I wanted to say was that any management system can be corrupted, including the target management principle. A good example of this was when Health Minister Stroem-Erichsen wanted to reduce the use of part-time. At the same time, you rely on the Working Environment Act, and then you wouldn't do anything about the tour. Thus, hospital management was confronted with the insoluble dilemma of either complying with policy-making guidelines or breaking the Working Environment Act. So there's just a sense from the top, where you don't know the reality in the organizations. I can sum up by saying that the working party has described in the setting as a poison, in this room has become a question of dosage. It's a progress, isn't it? Then I am excited that they will correct the setting in a later case that Stortinget will deal with, namely the setting 134 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e636	The representative Are Health made a very good contribution, and it's tempting to join most of it. In particular, he addressed the challenges of achieving goals in relation to the health sector. It is clear that the intention of what the majority comment refers to is good. I think we also agree that in several areas and in several departments there is a need to look at how to measure targets and how to set these targets. In my former work, in the job I had as a police lawyer in the Foreign Affairs Department, it was clear that when you were investigating a case where you were looking for a criminal like that. Long-term baptism, there was a lot of work that had to be done to achieve this one goal – that one could achieve a goal of getting one person out – versus where you knew that there was a family on an asylum reception that had three to four children, where the numbering approach would automatically be better. You can ask questions about whether there is the right way to work, and whether this is socially beneficial. Before that, I worked as a defense attorney. If the police, for example, Now going out and taking some individuals who, without comparison, have smoked hashish, some goals are achieved, versus that, for example. happened in a case called Broken Lorry, where I had the defense mission. It was Kripos who rolled this up. 30 000 phone calls were tapped, there were foregleams to Belgium, the Netherlands, Morocco, Poland, etc., and an organised criminal network was rolled up. It's clear that Kripos has the resources to do it. Besides, maybe there's org. Krim in Oslo that can do it. But if you look at the other police districts around the country, you will either not be able to prioritize it or not have resources at all to capture that this is something you need to look at. If the measures are to be measured against which number of crimes are solved and not measured against the seriousness, the scale, etc., this will go wrong. I believe that the intention behind the majority comment that we in the Left have not joined is good, but as it was formulated, it was not possible for us to join it. But I think it's a work that also the Left is going to contribute to looking at, because we can't have such unfortunate outcomes of different goals being set in the administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e647	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e661	Now, the Storting will deal with Document 3:1, which discusses the follow-up to 12 administrative audits, and the Riksrevision has concluded nine of these cases. There are three things to follow up on. It's: Investigation by the National Audit Office of how the Ministry of the Environment discharges its national responsibility for peaceful and protective buildings The National Audit Office's study of Enova SF's operation and management The National Audit Office's study on the follow-up and quality of private institutions in multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts For several of the cases closed, the Riksrevision has assumed that necessary changes have been made – after three years! – so the cases are not followed up again next year. Of course, we are pleased, although we would strongly believe that it should be obvious that the matters are followed up when the defects have been pointed out, and that the pace of the follow-up could have been faster. I say it again here, and I refer to what I said during the treatment of the previous case. For some of the cases closed by the Riksaudition, the annual audits will follow developments. I will comment briefly on the three issues that now need to be followed up. First, to the Ministry of the Environment and their management of their national responsibilities to ensure that peaceful and protective buildings are maintained in order to achieve the national objectives in this area. In the past, the Committee has also raised this issue and expressed great concern about how national responsibility for peaceful and protective buildings is being taken into account. At that time, the Committee considered that the lack of follow-up by the Ministry of the Environment to buildings of protection increased the likelihood that the Storting's wish to minimise the loss of buildings of protection would not be realised by 2020. Therefore, the current Committee has expressed its satisfaction that in 2013, the Riksrevision asked the Ministry of the Environment to explain the status and measures taken in relation to the issues raised in the submission to which it was referred. We are, of course, pleased that the Riksrevision carried out discussions with the Riksantikvaren and Sametinget on the monitoring of status and development and the follow-up of the automatically peaceful Sami buildings. We also note that the Ministry of the Environment has worked systematically to achieve its 2020 targets. Among other things, target and reporting systems have been developed and the knowledge gap for cultural memory management has been initiated. The Riksantikvaren, on its side, has carried out a screening of what is peaced and what is missing. Work is also under way on the identification and registration of Sami buildings. The Committee takes a very positive view of this. At the same time, we note that there is no reporting system for sheltered buildings, that county councils give too little priority to the conservation work, and that it will take a long time before the objective of ordinary maintenance of Sami peaceful buildings is realised, as the Stortinget wanted. However, it is still not clear how the provisions of the Culture Memory Act on automatically peaceful cultural memories are to be understood and used. The National Audit Office believes that priority should be given to this area. The Committee does. With regard to the assessment of whether Enova effectively promotes environmentally friendly conversion of the production and consumption of energy, we are pleased that the Riksaudierte asked the Ministry of Oil and Energy in letter of 11 April 2013 to explain the changes and measures taken to follow up the previous findings of the Riksaudierte and the comments made by the Supervisory and Constituent Committee at the Innst. 298 S for 2009-2010 on the operation and management of Enova SF. We see that many of the unfortunate conditions that were pointed out after the previous treatment in Stortinget are now under control and functioning satisfactorily, and that the department has strengthened the follow-up to Enova in a good way. While the National Audit Board is satisfied with developments, it points out at the same time that Enova’s reporting shows that the overall contractual result is lower than it should have been in order to achieve the target set for the period 2012-2015. Enova, for its part, points out that there are several factors – such as lower prices of electricity, falling quota prices, etc. – which affects the possibility of achieving the goal set by Stortinget. In this context, the National Audit Board questions whether Enova has the necessary means to meet the ambitions of the Storting in energy conversion. A Joint Committee agrees with the Riksrevision and considers that the work on reviewing Enova’s instruments should start as soon as possible. So until the third case that the Riksrevision will follow up. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s investigations was to assess whether the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the regional health establishments have established an appropriate system for the follow-up of offers by private institutions in the multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts, or the TSB, which is the abbreviation. The aim was also to assess how the contractually agreed private institutional offer ensures that the quality requirements of internal control and individual level are met. We are pleased that, in a letter of 2 May 2013, the National Audit Office asked the Ministry of Health and Welfare to explain what measures have been taken to follow up the Committee's comments in the Innst. 266 S for 2009–2010 on the follow-up of multidisciplinary specialised treatment in private institutions. The Ministry of Health and Health replies show that the Ministry is working to meet the requirements and references made by the Stortinget in the previous round, in terms of both professional guidelines, follow-up to internal control, post-protection and research. In its observations on the Stortinget, an overall committee stresses that the tendering system is not precise enough and that long-term contracts with quality requirements should be the objective of the future. Furthermore, we believe that post-employment protection is very dependent on a good municipal offer, where housing and employment services are currently at the heart of the problem. The Committee is pleased that several initiatives have been taken to strengthen the system of follow-up to the multidisciplinary specialised treatment of drug addicts in private institutions, but, like the Riksrevision, it has noted that most measures are in the early stages. We therefore agree with the Riksrevision that it is too early to say whether the measures have an adequate impact, and we are pleased that the Riksrevision will continue to follow this case. That's what the Storting will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e697	I refer you to my article in the previous debate. There I took, among other things: information on what appeared in Document 3 on the follow-up of the National Audit Office to health services, health services and the police. Actually, I'm just going to ask the Minister of Finance a question in this case. We were quite a few in that the detailed target management is a detachment and something we have to go away from. That's what the Riksrevision says: ‘Since financial management and cost control have developed positively in recent years, the Ministry has placed greater emphasis on the establishment of service quality objectives and management parameters. The National Audit Office welcomes the fact that the Ministry will now launch a process of reviewing the 2014 Steering Papers.’» Similarly, the Riksrevision says of the police: ‘Most police districts fully or partially agree that today’s targets and parameters for police work do not capture efforts against organised crime. The national audit considers it important to give this work a high priority. Appropriate objectives and parameters could, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, be an important contribution to ensuring that the response to organised crime is captured.’ So, to get out of the situation you have with 120 targets for the police and 285 targets for health services, the Riksrevision proposes that we have more. My question is very simple: can the Minister of Finance promise that there will be no more measurement parameters as a result of this process, but that there will be fewer and smarter parameters?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e712	I do not read the comments of the National Audit Office as the representative of the County just referred to. It is absolutely necessary to review the governance objectives of all departments. That's what this government has done. In the letters of assignment we sent out this year, we have put emphasis on significantly fewer targets – but clearer targets. It's about being clear what you want to achieve. We've been very clear that you don't solve challenges by sending out more targets; you solve the challenges by sending out clear targets. I do not understand that there is a conflict between what the government is now doing and the comments that have been made from the National Audit Office relating to the matters that are being dealt with in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e717	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e731	The review of the State Council Protocols by the Control and Constitutional Committee is important, although it rarely – thank you and price – contributes to the major debates. The reason for this is that the review normally gives the result that most of it is perfectly correct, as the committee believes it is. That's the way it is this time too. The Committee has nothing to say on the minutes of the State Councils. The Committee has noted that there have been no dissidents in the government during the period in question. Nor have any comments from the Committee been submitted by the Enlarged Board from 1 January 2013 to 30 June 2013. The Committee refers to its comments at the Innst. 443 S and previous remarks on the routine transmission of expanded lists of candidates by the departments, which provide information on all applicants, including those who have received their name except for publication. The Committee notes that the Departments have submitted sufficient documentation and has no comments on the appointment of office during the period from 1 January to 30. ==References== Regulations provide that the King of State Councils is part of the half-yearly review of the Committee and therefore forms part of the Committee's review of the State Council Protocols. The Committee does not have any comments here either. However, I need to note that after the Committee and the Storting decided to forward to the Committee all the regulations drawn up on the basis of a mandate, there is a great deal of regulation. I would like to mention that during the preparations for that decision it was said that it would be difficult for the Storting to handle this without having extended the capacity to review all of these regulations. As chairman of the Committee, I want to take the initiative – and I say this from the Chair – for a discussion in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs and possibly with the presidency on how we should proceed with this. The problem is that there is no capacity to go through all these regulations in a factual and proper way. It's going to be very superficial. On some occasions we have asked Stortingen's investigation department to review some regulations. They have done that, and we've got good answers, but of course that's just a little bit of it. So it's not a satisfactory situation, and I'm not saying that right now. I'm just saying here that I'm going to initiate a discussion about how we're going to be able to comply with the Grand Duchy's provisions regarding the review of the regulations by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. As it is today, I do not feel that this is a reassuring practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e746	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e752	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-06.ana.ud667e866	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
