ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e26	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e29	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Terje Breivik, Pál Farstad, Trine Skei Grande and myself on the establishment of a health smuggling system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e53	There is a strength in Norway that we are better at creating values and better at distributing values fairly than most other countries. It's not obvious that it's like this. In particular, high-income countries very often experience large income differences. One reason why there is a more even distribution of income in Norway than in many other countries is that we have strong trade unions and a system of wage fixing that ensures a fair distribution of income between owners of enterprises and employees in enterprises. In recent years, the income of both employees and owners has increased well. It is an expression that Norwegian companies are consistently doing well – of course not in everyone, some are going badly, some are going well, but the main picture is that it is good earnings. That is why it has been possible to increase both employee income and ownership income at the same time. The income of the owners and employees has grown steadily – cakes have grown, and cakes have been distributed in the same way as we have over many decades here in the country. This has been a big problem for the Prime Minister. She believes that wages are too high in relation to value creation in relation to productivity, and she has chosen to call this one of the most dangerous gaps a nation can face. She and the Minister of Finance have with great experience presented graphs to show how dangerous this gap is. There is only one way to reduce this gap, and it is to reduce the salary share in value creation, i.e. increased wages and salaries of owners at the expense of employees' wages and salaries. This will lead to increased disparities, it will break down the Norwegian wage formation system, and this will result in a more unfair distribution. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does she still believe that the wage earners' share of the value creation is an expression of one of the most dangerous gaps a nation can face?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e64	I would think that the representative Stoltenberg would be happy when other politicians, too – with experience – showed up graphs. When I think this is one of the most dangerous gaps we're facing, it's because the graph is the symbol of the oil addiction to Norway. The background that we have been able to have an increased wage growth in relation to productivity developments for some years is high prices for some of the goods we sell. These are mainly oil-related products. That means that we've tied our salary levels up to the fact that we're still going to get extraordinarily more paid than what we've gotten for our goods in the past. It's not because we've produced more. That's also what the Governor said in his speech in 2013, that the majority of the growth we see is because of higher prices. Therefore, the graph also shows the vulnerability of Norwegian society. Because at the moment we can risk falling prices, the foundation of wage growth, welfare development and the security of Norwegian workers in recent years has been weakened. In some areas, we can see that, for example. in parts of the metal industry, there was a high price increase between 2005 and 2007. It paid more, we increased capacity worldwide, we got good prices, and the wage trend was, of course, in line with that. What has happened afterwards is that the prices of the goods have flattened out. What I think is quite important is that we now have a discussion about how we make sure that our society is robust in the years to come. Then we can't have a wage development and productivity development that is no longer linked. In the long term, we actually have to make sure that it is linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e75	First of all, I am very pleased that other politicians are also using graphs. I would have been even more happy if it had been my graphs they used, and I would have been even more happy if the graphs that were used actually took up real problems. As you talk over and over again after talks from both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, you present a graph showing that wages are too high in terms of value creation in the country, and say that it is one of the most dangerous gaps a nation can face, the truth is that wages' share in total value creation is about exactly the same today as it was five, ten, twenty, thirty and forty years ago. We're baking a larger pie and dividing it the same way as before. The fact that the distribution we have in Norway today is an expression of a dangerous gap is an expression of wanting a different distribution – more to the owners and less to the employees. I'm a strong opponent of that. So, of course, I'm a member of more productivity and increased value creation, but baking a cake is something else than distributing it fairly, and we want both: big cake and fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e82	If Stoltenberg had listened to what I said, perhaps his picture of us baking a larger cake would not have been correct. We get a better price for the pie, but we haven't necessarily backed it up. That's what's happening when we don't have enough productivity development in a country. Then we may not get the same price for the cake in the years to come, and then we've made our society more vulnerable. This recognition had the Minister of Finance of Stoltenberg when we discussed the question of a productivity commission following a proposal I made here in 2013. Then Sigbjørn Johnsen said, ‘It is important that, in order to carry a high level of pay over time, we also have an productivity that allows us to carry a higher level of pay than others.’ That's what we're saying: if we're going to save the safety of the jobs, and if we're going to save the high pay level, we're going to have to raise productivity even in the years when we actually might even have lower prices for some of the goods. Then we must have baked the cake bigger, not just get paid better for it, because we are not guaranteed to get that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e94	There will be follow-up questions – first Marianne Marthinsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e97	The good profitability of Norwegian enterprises shows several things – we are productive, but there has also been a formidable development in the exchange relationship with the rest of the world. And once we've got a better price of cake, as the Prime Minister puts it, of course, it's quite right. But the payroll's share is the same, it's been constant for decades. What the Prime Minister has done is to invite himself to a discussion about the distribution of cake. What she's really saying is that employees get too much of the profit because there's a lot of profitability in Norwegian companies. This so-called productivity gap is not reduced by the increase in the price of cake or the increase in the price of cake. Then you actually have to change the distribution of the pie pieces, so that the owners of the companies get more and the employees get less. Once the Prime Minister has characterized this gap as one of the most dangerous gaps a nation can face, I guess that's because she's going to do something about it. Can the Prime Minister confirm that this means that the employee's share of the values created has to decrease?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e106	I am a little surprised that you do not seem to listen to the answer. So it's the price that has essentially made it possible for us today to live with a gap that's bigger, that's the vulnerability of the Norwegian economy in the future. We have a job to do to close this gap – not by cutting wages, but by raising productivity growth in the years to come, because we don't think we're going to be as lucky as we've been, with high prices. I believe that jobs in Norway must be safe, by knowing that they are productive, and that we can compete with others – not that we have a laissez-faire attitude, which I am a little surprised that the Workers' Party is the representative of and believes that we should be happy every year, with high oil prices and high payments for our goods. We believe that politics works. That is why we have a policy at the heart of what we call competitiveness for Norway, the core of research and development, of modernising Norway, of building better roads, of ensuring that our tax system is growth-enhancing, of ensuring both wages and growth capacity in Norway. We are thus raising productivity, and that is important, because in the long term, as Mr Johnsen said, these things are linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e113	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e116	There was a lot of talk about graphs. I will not ask the Prime Minister to present a graph of the likelihood that Jens Stoltenberg will become NATO's next Secretary-General, but I feel that this is primarily a struggle for the imitation of the previous Prime Minister – and as much as really correcting the mistakes of the new one. But one question related to productivity. The government has set down its own commission on productivity. It concerns how to harmonize well with an inclusive working life. We have just adopted a new IA agreement, which shows that the number of people with disabilities in work under the previous government has fallen, and that the goal now is to get more people to work. My question is, how will the Prime Minister ensure that not only one-sided thinking of productivity, but also thinks that we should include everyone, and that productivity does not go beyond that goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e124	I believe that the representative Syversen is quite right that it is important to say that it is not just productivity that is important. One of the things that the SSB's economic outlook determines is that it is equally important to look after the socio-economic profitability. In some areas, productivity in our society could be lower because we have had a more inclusive society, but the socio-economic profitability will be better because of it. But what we do has to be conscious. That's why we've reduced a productivity commission, so we have a conscious relationship with it. In the last period, the period we have behind us, we had not achieved our goals of including more disabled people in the labour market, while at the same time we had lower productivity. So it's important that we have a conscious relationship to it, and we have to be aware of having questions and discussions about how to raise productivity. Some relationships may be about things we cannot change, others are about stimulating policies, for example. to the competence and to ensure that we promise research and development and other measures that contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e129	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e132	One of the successes of Norwegian society is that we have had small economic differences, and once we have had economic growth, many have had economic growth, and that means that there has been value creation around the country. But after reading the articles that have been written about the famous gap, as Erna Solberg has called it, one gets the impression that the Prime Minister sees it as a problem that the employee's share of the value creation is too high. My simple question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister see it as a problem that many people have been involved in this value creation, which has been high in Norway in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e139	I don't see it as a problem that people have good pay. I like people to have a good salary, and I love them in the long run to have a good salary and also a safe job, and that's what this discussion is about. We're going to make sure that we also have a safe foundation for the jobs ahead, so that people can be sure to have good pay in the future. The most important thing we've achieved in recent years – if we take the last 40 years – I think we've had a good growth. Our economy has increased significantly, for example. since 1971, with 2.5 pst. annual average. 0.5 pst. of it has been because more people have been working, and it has been several hours. 2 pst. of which productivity development is attributed. That shows the nucleus of it. The perspective message presented by the previous government requires an increase in productivity on a line that is above what they delivered themselves during the eight years they set. If we don't actually have the welfare development of the previous government added up. We are committed to raising productivity developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e148	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e151	The graphs and the debate illustrate very well two of the main challenges we face: the level of costs and the division of the economy. The main answer to this is that Norway should take care of value creation and lay the basis for future well-being, we have no choice but to have world-class knowledge and technology development at all times. So far more interesting to debate than how dangerous the graph is, is what we in this room can do to make Norway have the innovation capacity that is proportionate to the level of wages and costs we have in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e158	I fully agree that this graph shows some of the challenges that are also reflected in the two-part division. So I want to say that I don't believe in today's situation that a two-part economy is such a good picture anymore, because what we're seeing now is that the oil industry and the supplier industry are also shutting down. They indicate downgrading and outsourcing of a number of functions. This means that we have a cost problem, which concerns both non-oil-related industries and oil-related industries in Norway. The answer to that is just to make sure that we don't get cheaper, but smarter, that we make sure that we spend more money on research and development, and that we ensure that the areas that are close to business, in terms of research and development. We did so in the budget that we presented in the autumn, where we, among other things, increased the research and development resources that were closest to business, e.g. BU funds and TAX FINN.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e165	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e168	We are productive, and we get good prices for the goods we sell. What the Prime Minister has really said today is that Norwegian workers will get less for their work in case the price goes down once, while the owners, who happen to vote Right, will be left with more. Let's assume that the reasoning holds -- it doesn't, but let's take that into account. My question to the Prime Minister is then: How much less will Norwegian workers earn their work? What is a suitable level and a suitable share of the cake, in the view of the Prime Minister? And not least, how has the Prime Minister intended to go into an area that is the responsibility of the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e175	What I've said in this room, and what I've said out there, is that we're going to work to raise productivity in Norway. It's an important goal for this government that we get more productivity and make sure that we can get new companies with higher returns to make society more robust. Higher productivity can also lead to higher wages. That's actually the cause of well-being in the last 40 years, as I said instead. The reason for the high wage level in the future has actually been that we have had productivity. And as Sigbjørn Johnsen said, it's important in the long term that there's no difference in pay levels and productivity trends, because it'll be too vulnerable. Even if you try to make this a question of dividing the cake, my answer to this is that we have to make sure that our cake grows, so that we have better well-being in relation to both people's security for jobs and pay levels. This is not a policy for wages to fall; it is a policy for wages to be secure in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e184	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e188	School and education opportunities are still an important issue in many countries and societies in the world. One of those who have contributed to raising this issue on the international agenda is the 17-year-old blogger Malala. It's probably more than me who's been caught both by her courage and by her clear and clear messages about what school and education can mean. In Norway, we have the right to free schooling, both primary and secondary. In a welfare society like ours, it might be a little fast to take these rights for granted. Absence in secondary education is a major and complex problem. Over the last few weeks, several newspapers have also written that absenteeism in high school is an increasing problem. The A magazine wrote on Friday that it is not uncommon in Oslo schools that more than half the class is missing when the education starts. The average absence per student is now up to 10 pst. It equals four whole weeks per student per year. Teachers have no sanctioning powers, and students have a statutory right to both assessment and grades in the different subjects no matter how far they are away from teaching. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she has made some thoughts about what can be done to reduce the absence of high school, whether it should perhaps be so that when we give young people a statutory right to secondary education, it should also be accompanied by a certain commitment to meet up when the education takes place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e197	We have ten years of compulsory schooling in Norway, so it's not just a right but also an obligation. But the next few years are actually optional. It is not the case that in Norwegian school there is no penalty for absenteeism. First of all, there is absence on the certificate and there is legal absence as well as illegal absence. It may be important that we teach Norwegian youth that an employer is going to look at it – that it has a meaning of how much absence you have. We know that there's some of the things that are going to include apprentices that look a lot. If you meet a manager of a medium-sized enterprise in Norway who has some apprentices, he will say that the first thing he sees is how much absence the apprentice has had in school, because they see it as a matter of commitment. So it's important to teach the students that it means something, what's on the diploma related to absence. The second is the ability you actually have to give order and behavioral characteristics. Whether we should have penalties in other ways at the same time, for example: say that there is no basis for setting a professional character, or otherwise, the government has not assessed. I think it's important that we discuss this question. I have a hope that it is possible not only to run with punishment, but actually also to mobilize both parents and youth themselves to see that going to school is a privilege that many people around the world are not allowed to take part in, that getting an education and a diploma is important for further participation in the working life of Norway, and that you should not waste your youth on having a great deal of absence. We want to look at opportunities to regulate or anything else, but first of all, I feel that we should appeal to Norwegian youth to take responsibility for themselves, and perhaps show them the confidence that means that if we are clear and clear that it is unacceptable to have a lot of absence, then the first thing we need to do is not to create new rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e208	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer. I think she points to something that is very important, namely that high school students are about to go out to work and meet a demanding labour market. Then I think we're doing them a lot of bear service by not making greater demands on them while they're students at school. Although these are students who are soon adults, there are many high school students who are still under 18 years of age. This means that parents and superiors also have a place in this image. What does the Prime Minister think about the role and responsibility of parents for high school students? Does she agree that closer cooperation between school and home could also help reduce absenteeism and homelessness in high school? If so, what will the government do to strengthen this cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e215	I fully agree that parents of children who are minors, as well as parents of children who live at home even though they have become competent, should both be notified and have an opportunity to take this up with their children and follow closely up. There are some schools that have good projects on this. Among other things, there are schools that follow in particular the children who fall out a lot, and who have additional problems, who not only cheat because it is Czechs to sit and talk and be somewhere else, but who actually have some problems with the motivation to go to school. For these, many schools have good projects such as: go out to pick up children at home or make sure to call them in the morning. Where family relationships don't work well enough, there's a lot of work going on around the municipalities. I have visited several schools that have good projects related to just this. At the same time, I believe that the role of parents must be the first. They are the ones who will ensure that their children participate in the education system and can make use of their opportunities. Therefore, schools must have good contact with their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e222	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e225	We celebrate the 20th anniversary of the establishment of this hall with a statutory right to secondary education. Even though the right at the time voted against, I see that there is no need to reverse this right. Unfortunately, it is – and it has been completely constant over the 20 years – that it is only about 70 pst. who have completed secondary education five years after they began. It is serious for the individual, it is serious for the Norwegian economy, and it is serious for Norwegian working life, because we need skilled people – both skilled and with study preparation subjects. Then the question is, what can we do to help more people get through? Then I think we have to distinguish between different types of absence. It could be people who are gone 25-30 pst. of school time because they have chronic diseases and plagues but still make a great effort, acquire the knowledge and be able to reach the level that satisfies the completion of high school. They should be rewarded and helped through. But then there are others who may come in the hours now and then, coming in the middle of the hour, have illegal absences. In the view of the Labour Party, stricter rules must be introduced against this. Now the prime minister knows that there's a majority in this room to get such rules, give the teacher tools to keep order in the class. It also disturbs other students when half the class does not show up from the start. The question then is: will the Prime Minister ensure that such a proposal is made, so that teachers get the tools they need to help students through high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e232	I don't think this is an area where there's a need to make a big political disagreement about how to do it. We just have to make sure that the rules we make take into account those people who, for various reasons, are unable to participate in education. We can make very clear rules, but for some groups that today need other help to get to school and be present, that's not what's most important to prevent the drop-off. What is most important to prevent the dropout is early intervention. It's to make sure that students learn to read and write and that they learn basic math. One of the main reasons people fall out of school is that they have problems with professional mathematics. It's now the symptoms show up, but the problem started earlier in school. It's important to look at the cause chains here as well. So there's a group of students who just need to be raised a little bit better. Then the kind of rules that the representative Giske mentions can be important to make them realize that the school is important and necessary. But for many, this is not the biggest challenge of non-response. The main challenge in case of non-response is that there is a lack of quality in early training work in Norwegian schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e239	Astrid Aarhus Byrknes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e242	In 2009, there was a time-use survey in the continuing school that showed that a teacher spent up to 50 minutes during the day getting a rest in the classroom. Teachers also refer to the lack of tools for setting up the necessary authority, and that the authority is actually built up gradually. There are other students who show that the teacher is unable to fulfill his assignment in the classroom because of lack of legitimacy and authority. Teachers also show that they want more sanctions, so that the students actually meet in the classroom. Does the Prime Minister agree that the authority of the teachers should be strengthened? What does the Prime Minister intend to do to ensure that the teacher regains the authority and becomes the leader he will be in the classroom with the students, so that both an absentee and a learner can relax?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e247	I think the most important thing is that all of us who are parents teach kids to respect school, that you learn to respect the rules that are. I think the most important foundation is what you have when you start school, and you have to start with it. If I don't remember completely wrong, recent studies have shown that there is actually progress in the area of calm and order, that the teachers spend less time on this, and that the students actually experience that there are less problems with noise in the classroom. But we still lose many hours. In 2009, the right did a calculation of this which showed that we actually lost a little more than a whole day of teaching each week because of lack of concentration and calm. That means that there's a great potential for doing this. So I say the parents have a role before the kids start school. Of course, we're going to have systems that allow us to follow up students who have big problems, so that they get help. Then we're going to make sure that the authority is there because the teachers are well-trained, and it's good management in the schools, which contributes to a system where you respect that in the classroom is the education that's going to take place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e256	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e260	There is a consensus that the reason for absenteeism and non-response is compounded, and that there must be different approaches in order to succeed in getting more people through the school course. The Prime Minister himself has been busy that this must be resolved in the basic sphere as well, not only is the continuing schooling that counts here. The red-green government was busy with this very thing about reintroducing the electoral profession into the youth school stage. This has been seen on the agenda that now at one of the party friends of the Prime Minister here in Oslo, who wanted to introduce the law to instead of the electoral profession in the school in Oslo. There has been a lot of talk about cake here before, and it is important that students learn it in practice and not just theoretically. So I want to ask the Prime Minister: is the Prime Minister in agreement with his party and the Minister of Knowledge in Oslo that the liquidation of the electoral profession in favour of more theory into the youth sphere is the right thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e267	As you know, the right in the previous magnification period went in to introduce the electoral subjects when we dealt with the message in Stortinget. We're going to implement it. Then I have to say that it's going to be a while until we can see if it has a meaning for non-response or not. It is a theory that the electoral professions should contribute to less non-response, but whether it contributes to it is uncertain. What we know contributes to non-response is poor math education, because math is what most of the subjects end up with. In this way, I think in Oslo, when you get to grips with the core of what's most difficult for many, you've gone to the root of the challenges, that's that a lot of those who fall out of school actually say they can't go on in mathematics. But we're followers of maintaining the electoral profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e272	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e275	I'm very happy to hear that. I do not believe that the City Council really believes it should be dealt with in its organs. But the challenge is the absence that leads to non-response, and the challenge is that students also have to feel that it is useful to meet in school, that it is a signal to the teachers – who previously learn – unless the students find the benefit of actually meeting up with the education given. Then it's also important to provide for the authority of the teachers, sail if I don't think it's adopted here. But what we can do is help the teachers become more professionally safer and can exercise the authority they have to exercise as leaders in a classroom. What we can do is we can relieve the teachers of all the work that is not related to the teaching job, but that health sisters, special educators and others should do in the network around. Therefore, a massive effort on the type of support functions is needed to prevent non-response. And finally, we have to learn from the schools that fix it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e282	I agree with the representative of Trine Skei Grande that there are many reasons, and they have to meet with a little different measures. It is clear that non-response can also be symptoms of completely other problems, which are not professional but which are challenges. I agreed to start using the Hue campaign against bullying yesterday. There are strong stories about how bullying on social media helps young people not to go to school. It is important to make sure to work against bullying. Making sure to work for lowthreshold services for young people in the field of mental health, such as health sisters, is important. Also making sure that you have places to go as a relative, because your parents have problems, is important. All of this affects participation. Then the professional questions are important. Both the teacher's competence, the entire college of teachers and the principal's management of a school are incredibly important for lifting the professional. There are many answers to a complex issue. Fortunately, children are different, and the challenges are different.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e289	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e292	One of the Norwegian successes is that we have used all of Norway. We have actively used the policy of creating living communities, and we have stimulated the creation of value throughout the country. In the first budget of the government of Solberg, it was a clear pattern. There were cuts in all measures that had to do with using the whole of Norway. It was cut in the fishing industry, it was cut in the forestry industry, it was cut in agriculture, it was cut in funds that go to those who are going to create new farms – with half a billion dollars – those who have the new ideas, the better solutions. Everything pointed in a direction towards more centralization. The most important, unbureaucratic tool we have in district policy is a differentiated employer's fee, that companies in District-Norway get a lower tax burden. The government has now announced that there may be a fee shop up to 1 billion kroner. kr for these holdings. My question is: What has the government done to avoid this fee shopping?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e301	The representative should have asked himself that question. The areas taken out of a differentiated employer’s fee were removed from the instrument, i.e. the permissible instruments in the State aid legislation, in June 2013. At that time, it was therefore decided that it would be illegal State aid if, for example, the transport sector, the energy sector and the financial sector were granted. different employer’s fee. It's a framework condition we can't do so much with. I know that the previous government took up sectorial restrictions in letters to the EU on a general basis – not necessarily these sectors, but primarily the sector that was out in the last period, namely the yard industry. It's come back in. However, de facto is what is the problem today, and the sectors that have been selected, a result of a decision taken in the EU in June 2013 on what is legal state aid. We have not chosen to criticize the previous government for that, because we believe it would be difficult. They say they've taken it up – we might think they should be better informed. We can take self-criticism that we should have also been better informed, but it is therefore that this decision was taken in the European Union at that time. What we've been working on afterwards is the boundary lines around this. The question we have also been working on is: Are we able to obtain a differentiated employer's fee throughout North Norway? That's what we've done. Can we obtain a differentiated employer's fee in several municipalities further south, which has lost it earlier? We've also done that. However, it has not been possible since the EU decision to reintroduce sectors explicitly excluded from State aid legislation, in the same way as the previous government did not reintroduce the yard industry, for there was also a clear decision taken in the EU at that time. Now there are other sectors out there – the yard industry is in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e308	This illustrates the very clear difference between the Center Party and the Right. It is quite right, as Prime Minister Erna Solberg says, that this decision was taken in the EU on 19 June, but it was not taken by the Norwegian Government. Nor was it accepted by the Norwegian Government. On the other hand, we actively opposed the implementation of the legislation in Norway. We had a different attitude, we had a meeting with them, we had contact in the form of letters, and we made it clear that we saw another solution. Erna Solberg asked for responsibility, she was given responsibility, and then she had to take responsibility, for she has not worked actively, and does not want to stand up to the EU in this matter. Then it is also a little illustrative that, in the form of a letter to Stortinget on 5 February, Finance Minister Siv Jensen writes that there is still an active work to be done on this. My question is then: what have you been working actively with after February 5th, when Solberg here says that it was completed on June 19th?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e315	What's in that letter is that these exceptions are in place. So that's the boundary draw question we've been actively working on. It's about, for example, in the energy sector, setting out the framework for which measures are in place and which are outside. We've done a lot of that to try to get the best possible solution, so that too many companies don't experience this. But to say that there's a big difference between the Center Party and the Right: So you put on the watch when this decision happened. We have now gone through all the minutes of the European Committee of the Regions in Stortinget. You have never informed the European Committee that this was a problem, that these sectoral exceptions were there, and they have been there for work from January last year. You've never informed the Storting about it. I can take criticism that we should have informed better in retrospect about what has happened, but the yommet true should have been involved in this before. It didn't do the last government. I really think it's a little bit, yes, especially – I'm very happy with that word, you may have noticed – to hear that those who were responsible when the decision was taken are now trying to waive responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e322	There will be follow-up questions – Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e326	The most special thing is that the government has resorted to the habit of blaming the previous government for everything that is bad and difficult – so also in this case. A decision in the EU is not a decision of the red-green government. The matter was raised at administrative level in July, it was taken up in the form of a letter in August, and it was taken up by meetings with the municipal minister in the red-green government in September. Decisions taken in the EU and ESA have almost never previously stopped Norwegian governments from doing a job trying to find better solutions for the differentiated employer fee. This has happened in 1999, as it happened in 2005 and also in 2007, when the red-green government set up a new fee. So the question is still: has this government already given up that question, or is it a current option to fight further for a better system, and how will one do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e333	I believe it is important that we fight for a better system, and we will do so with the timeline ahead of the next revision of State aid legislation. I think we need to be aware that as long as we are part of the EEA, and even if we were outside the EEA, the companies involved are at risk of getting dumping charges against them because they had illegal State aid when it is not authorised under the State aid rules that the EU has. The center party now says they've fought on. I have participated in rounds where we paid a differentiated employer’s fee again – after we had not had it for three years. We did that by working intensively to get this back again as part of EU legislation, because that's the only way to make sure that you have the right to implement it. Now we're working on the compensation measures. We're trying to do that by looking at the areas that can best reach those sectors and regions that are best hit by increased expenditure. We don't want this, and I don't think the previous government did either. That's why we commended the previous government for fighting this. But you have to take responsibility for what happened when you were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e340	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e343	Businesses are concerned with predictability and not least with competitive framework conditions. The differentiated employer’s fee has been a targeted district policy system that has also been unbureaucratic. We've been very satisfied with that. The struggle has been to get new municipalities within the reduced employer’s tax scheme. The joy was great when the 31 municipalities were granted it. I thought I would take one example: Vanylven municipality in More and Romesdal, which is relatively small, but which has now fallen from 10.6 to 6.4 pst. Many people would say that there are small businesses there, but one of them is a transport operator, which has 7.5 annual works. Only the bill for them is $100,000 a year, and there's something that's been thrown down their heads now. So they're wondering, what is the government actually doing since it took over and up until now? Have you used the space you have? The compensation schemes you're talking about, is it clear what's in it? And are you going to get compensation heads for crowns, like Sanner said at NRK yesterday?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e352	First of all, we have worked to get exactly what makes Vanylven get a lower employer's fee. We've used the objective criteria, we've been working on expanding the area. In addition, we have ensured that there was a great deal of discussion about whether we could manage to do so, namely Tromsø and Bodø within a differentiated employer's fee. It is, after all, two large-growth municipalities that break with the usual criteria, but it is a coherent area. It has been important to give priority to doing so. So we've been working on the boundaries that we have in some areas in the exempted sectors – how far do they go? But the main principle that the sectors have been removed was in June last year. We haven't been able to do anything about it, just as little as we were able to do anything about the yard industry being taken out. It was actually in the work before June that had to be implemented to make those changes. It's a cross of thought for me that it comes so surprising to people, but it may be because it hasn't been informed about from the government that was responsible at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e359	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e362	Last week we became familiar with these 31 municipalities, which are now subject to a change in the employer’s fee and a change in the economic areas affected by the scheme. We have been promised that it will be compensated for the unfortunate results that may come from this. I am aware that this is a continuation of the work that the red-greens have been doing and that we are now waiting for in two months to have a decision in the EFTA Court. I have two questions. Because some of these 31 municipalities already have grant schemes that are not affected by the EFTA Court, will those grant schemes continue? Because when business areas can now change, municipalities assess whether they are losing or serving on the new scheme and whether they are retaining the grants that are therefore not affected by this ESA case at this time. My next question is: this can be decided within two months, but when will the scheme enter into force?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e371	The scheme shall enter into force on 1 July 2014. That's the starting point for this, and that's the time we've been given to adapt to the new thing. This is when the new legislation also applies in the EU. That is why we are now working on the compensatory measures towards the revised national budget. There is also a review of whether what has been put in place has implications for other schemes. I cannot without knowing what arrangements are involved, and what kind of support, give some analysis just above the table of whether there are some measures being given today, which conflict with the introduction of a differentiated employer's fee. It happens that you can't get double support for things, that it reaches a roof, but it's almost impossible for me to answer such a special and concrete question based on a general view.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e376	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e379	I'm from the municipality of Gjøvik. We have the neighbouring municipalities of East and West Toten and North and Søndre Land. In my 15 years in the local government, we have always discussed community mergers in our region. Now North and Søndre Land are two of the 31 municipalities that are proposed to receive a lower employer’s fee. Has the government ever discussed giving whole regions compensation or a structural fund to influence municipal mergers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e384	It is a challenge when we get more municipalities into the differentiated employer tax map, that there will be some natural municipal associations. It's a challenge. On the other hand, on the Fozen, the opposite happens. There was such a barrier – now everyone has got it. What we've laid out for who gets are the objective criteria of the district indices, because that's what we can best defend against ESA, and don't start drawing questions and maps that make it harder. To the question of incentives for community reunification: it is a topic we come back to when we present the municipal proposition, where we also come back to the whole work of community reform. At that time, we will have discussed various measures related to stimulating, for example: local government reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e394	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e397	On the picture that decorates this hall, there are no northerners; there are no northerners in that picture. This year, when we celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, it seems that this government celebrates with also omitting North Norway. The series of cuts has become very long for the districts in general and North Norway in particular, and so now there was a differentiated employer fee, which is about a billion dollars in the Nordic companies. The NHO reports that around 380 enterprises will have negative results if introduced. It will lead to bankruptcy, unemployment and the branching of North Norway. Yesterday, Jan Tore Sanner told us that this will be compensated for crowns. Can the Prime Minister assure the Nordics that this will be compensated for crowns?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e404	Yes, we're going to return the funds we get from revenue to the state to district-oriented measures and the regions from which they come. Then I would like to say that it is not easy to compensate each company for crowns, because then we will probably have problems related to the State aid legislation in other areas. But we're going to make sure that the area and the region get money back. We have said that is a principle. This is not a measure to save money in any way, this is an action that comes because some sectors were taken out in June last year. On the other hand, where we have won victory, there are other areas in North Norway that were at risk of being taken out, namely Tromsø and Bodø. They have been able to argue, to just see the context of a region, where we have to be able to stimulate the engines in those regions with measures that differ from one employer to another, even though they are on all growth indicators – and that is the case in other parts of Northern Norway – so it is now laughing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e413	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e416	Less than two weeks ago, the Environment Directorate delivered a report saying that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway must be cut sharply and rapidly to reach the target of the climate agreement on greenhouse gas emission reduction in 2020. ‘Technically, it is possible to achieve the national climate reduction target by 2020, but it becomes demanding.’ This is what Ellen Hambro, Director of the Environment Directorate, says. A willing effective measure is to use the tax system more actively in the environment’s service — a green tax reform — as Left has long wanted. People and business will set the climate for future generations. Politically, the job is to make it easy, motivating and profitable. I have been pleased to note that Environment Minister Tine Sundtoft in Dagbladet last Thursday pointed to green taxes as one of five instruments through climate change, and that Right’s environmental spokesman, Nikolai Astrup, had ‘an increase in environmental taxes’ as one of six environmental requirements for own government before the budgetary conference last week. The government is as usual, and understandably, sparing with the information when it comes to what is actually coming in the next budget. The government has however made some changes, including those made to it. that there will be so-called growth-promoting taxes. My question is whether the Prime Minister can now confirm that there will be a significant green tax shift in the state budget for 2015, as both the Minister for the Environment and the spokesperson for environmental policy have called for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e434	The report presented by the Environment Directorate — it was one of the first climate minister’s orders — shows rather gloomy prospects for reducing emissions in Norway. That means that we have to take a stronger hold of the years that are coming. The main change from the previous one is that there won't be CCS in Mongstad. This means that emissions in 2020 will be significantly higher than those previously entered into the long-term pathways. This means that we need to look for different measures to help bring down emissions, and the tax and tax system is one way to get it done. We see, as I also said at the climate conference that the government held last week, that it is working. The charging system has inter alia: operated in relation to electric cars. It seems to be using the charging system, and we want to look at different measures. Some of them are already in the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left attached to, for example. one-off investments. And then we've said we're going to have a green tax commission. But I cannot tell you now what is on the fiscal side of the budget, perhaps primarily because everyone who has been involved in budgetary proceedings knows that this is not how far you have come when you are in March, half a year before the budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e443	Thanks to the Prime Minister for the answer. This is, of course, the attitude of the Prime Minister that the use of the tax system in the environment service is effective. And in the last fall of the budget agreement we made such a green change together with the government party and the Christian People's Party by increasing the mineral oil charge quite sharply. A concrete result is that there is now money to save on switching from fossil to renewable energy sources. It pays to act environmentally friendly. The daily leader of Geir H. Ingeborgrud in Eco-1 Bioenergie believes, for example, that the translation will grow by 70 pst. this year, and that the main part of the growth will come as a result of the tax increase. He calls the change in fees the strongest environmental action made by the ten-year board of directors. Does the Prime Minister see that we can multiply this effect if we continue with a green tax shift in the budget for 2015? And is the Prime Minister saying that it is absolutely necessary both to strengthen the climate agreement and to reach the commitments we have taken on us in the same agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e452	The government has said that it wants to put down a green tax commission. We agree that we should also use the tax system to promote environmentally friendly behaviour and initial investment. This can happen with an increase in taxes, and it can happen with tax deductions, such as: on the one hand side. At the same time, we have to see that it can actually work where we do it, and it is clear that the increase in the mineral oil charge can work like that. Some tax increases become only a general increase in charges and an increase that is symbolic of an increase in climate, but which in practice only finance increased public expenditure. Therefore, we need to be quite focused on which sectors we will use. But I can't go into which sectors or in which areas. The budgetary procedure will be taken when we come with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e459	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e462	We can say that there is a broad consensus that using the tax system in the service of the environment is very effective, and that it is a concrete and good way to save – changing from fossil to renewable energy – when it also pays off being environmentally friendly. The right, left and Christian People's Party voted three years ago for the Left's proposal to set down a green tax commission. The Labour Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Advance Party were opposed. The then government parties wrote in the speech that they were somewhat curious to the proposalers' statement that it is now time to implement a green tax conversion. The progress party did not see any need for it at that time either. Fortunately, the Progress Party has turned around, and part of the government platform is putting down such a commission. My question to the Prime Minister is, When are we going to put this Commission down? And are we going to put it down with a mandate that will allow it to start to take effect in three to four years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e471	The government has ambitions to set this commission up during the year, as far as I know. We have another big tax conversion going on, in the Scheel Committee. It'll be in October. We need to evaluate whether we're going to phase it in before, or whether we're going to see the relationship between these two things. In any case, a green tax commission will not be ready so quickly that it will be able to take on board any proposals for changes to the tax system that will also be included in the Scheel Committee. So we have an ambition to put this down in the course of the year, and we'll see how fast we can do it, and at what stage we put it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e479	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e482	I agree with the Prime Minister that the Environment Directorate's report makes us have an important job ahead of us. The government has announced that it will strengthen the climate agreement, and as I understand it, it will do it through in different contexts to send – a little chattery – things to Stortinget. What I'm asking is whether the Prime Minister agrees that the Stortinget will have a better overview and a better opportunity to make good choices if there is a comprehensive announcement to the Stortinget, so that we have the opportunity to discuss this together – not least to continue the broad consensus we have on Norwegian climate policy. And does the Prime Minister think it is natural to seek agreement with the conciliators on strengthening the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e487	The biggest challenge of the climate deal we have is that we did not have enough concrete follow-up points to achieve the objective of the climate deal. That's why it's very important now not to spend the most time on words, but to spend the most time finding the concrete follow-up points. It's not that these are simple things. Just to say this: we might get good environmental effects from the increase we made in the mineral oil tax in the deal here, but we get the truth my mouth is also about those who do. This means that some measures must also be taken to address the consequences of and the framework around them. I agree that Stortinget will get clarity and clarity, but I don't think the focus now is on creating new headlines to invite to a wide-ranging debate. In fact, the focus should now be on finding concrete implementation points and launching policies, rather than doing so. Then we will report to the Storting, as we do quite regularly, among other things. in the budget, with regard to the location of the follow-up to the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e494	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e497	The ambition of putting down a green tax commission during the year is well at such a level that it is possible to expect that ambition to be achieved – I can say that on the part of the Christian People's Party, at least as expectation. But we have already adopted in the budget that is now in place, which will have a positive impact on the environment, namely tax deductions for an additional measure at home. The Minister for the Environment has received good proposals on how to do so. There is also a concern that, if this legislation is not clarified soon, there will be a drought in the market pending a concrete proposal. So then the natural question is, what are the ambitions of the government to comply with the Storting's decision on such a tax deduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e504	This is an area where the Ministry of Finance is working on bombs to find good solutions. It is clear that there are some challenges with regard to delimitation, with regard to how much bureaucracy you need, what predictability you need, what kind of additional action you need – to be all or just some – there are quite a lot of limiting problems in the issues there. This shall initially be a rights-based system. That means you have to be able to be aware of when you make the investment, that you get the tax deduction. Therefore, the rules must be clear and clear. We have ambitions to get to port with this. It is also likely to have to go through ESA, because it can be seen as some form of State aid. That's why we're working on bombs to get to a process that hopefully during next year's budget, we'll have this in place. But I take that reservation: it's a question of both getting a code that's manageable, and making sure that we get it through ESA, before it can come into force. But we're going to make sure to stimulate more investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e511	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e514	Climate: it is a fact that the amount of CO2 in the air is increasing. The amount of CO2 from fossil carbon consumption is increasing. That's the nucleus. Green taxes are important because they can correct market forces to meet societal objectives that market pricing does not achieve. To increase the tax on, for example: duty-free diesel may be one instrument, but there is no positive instrument to stimulate alternatives to drive those diesel-fuelled vehicles. What's at the heart of it is that we have to use the economy so that we change the way we produce in a climate-friendly direction. My fundamental question is: should we not reduce fossil carbon consumption through CO2 taxes, and at the same time increase the consumption of renewable carbon by re-establishing CO2 taxes for the production of this renewable carbon? That's a fundamental question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e533	Yes, the introduction of increased CO2 taxes contributes to making pollution more expensive, and thus also stimulates investment that contributes to smaller emissions. But perhaps the most successful environmental measure – what we are least talking about – happened during the Syse government in 1990, when they introduced the CO2 tax on the socket. It has done that a number of measures that were not taken before have been implemented within the oil industry, which means that if we had not done those measures, we would have had a completely different emission picture in Norway. But if that means returning the sums to the same ones to do that, you have to consider each case. In fact, in connection with the NOX tax, we did, because we saw that there were areas where it was difficult to obtain the investment just by charging the fee, among other things. in the maritime sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e547	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e550	Norwegian society is at its best when we share the goods. It creates solidarity, it creates trust, and it creates relationships between people. I think few things are so devastating to that trust and that cohesion that when someone at the top shows greed and drives homelessly enriching itself. Therefore, I would like to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to settle in cash with the bonus party that we have seen in parts of the Norwegian financial industry lately. We recently saw a bank manager go off with a parachute of 32 million. kr. Last week, it became known that the so-called split layer, which increased interest rates for ordinary customers in DNB, ended up with a 30 pst in 2013. increase in wages and salaries and bonuses. What we see is an astonishing lack of humility from an industry that was widely agreed to regulate after the financial crisis. The bonus party shows the banks are going so it laughs. At the same time, we know that the financial industry pays less taxes than other industries, because it does not pay VAT in the same way as other industries and businesses. The red-green government put down the Financial Crisis Committee after the financial crisis, such as the recommended the introduction of a financial tax in Norway. The aim would be to avoid the artificial growth of the financial industry and avoid artificial distortions in relation to other industries. The red-green government followed this up and was working on different models. What DNB has done with its bonus increases is to deliver an application for a deposit and government to be allowed to pay more taxes. My question is whether the Prime Minister will grant that application and introduce a financial tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e562	Being against greed is a good conservative virtue. We're trailers of moderation and moderation in all areas. I'm not going to say that we always live by it, but at least it's a good virtue to have. I agree that bonus systems are incredibly difficult systems to work properly. I have also stated on a very general basis that very many of these bonus systems that develop in business and other, often reward things that management doesn't have control over, but actually reward what happens around framework conditions and other. Therefore, if you're going to have that kind of system, you should be very clear about what's being done, and make it much more focused than it often is. We've been through it, since we're state-owned DNB, and I have to say that the bonus system they have is within the framework of the previous government's bill for bonus systems. Then I do not think we can lift the index finger to the board and say that this is wrong. They themselves have to evaluate their own communication and how they have done it, but it is within the system that the owners have told us in the past that is acceptable. It's been our assessment of this. To the question of introducing a financial tax, I have to say that I don't think it necessarily creates more moderation and less greed directly. But I'm absolutely sure it's going to lead to higher interest rates for young people who are going to have mortgages, and that's not going to be introduced by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e573	In 2012, Erna Solberg put herself at the head of the criticism of high management salaries and bonuses. According to the Evening Post on January 22nd, two years ago, we could read that according to Erna Solberg, wage moderation among leaders is a critical ingredient in Right Medicine against the crisis in the euro zone. It surprises me that not only is the Prime Minister standing here without action, but also without willingness to give a signal to the DNB that bonuses of this size in the situation we now have are wrong. It surprises me. I understand that the government is saying that they have flouted the proposal for a financial tax. That's too bad. It would mean the possibility of spending money on bonus parties for people in this society other than bankers, and it would lead to a better regulated industry. Then I have to ask: is there one other measure that Erna Solberg will introduce to bring down the leadership bonuses and put the brakes on in the financial industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e584	In 2012, I said exactly what I'm saying now -- that bonus programs tend not to pay what you actually think you should pay, and that they therefore have to be used with caution if you want to be sure that they work. I believe that when the state is the owner of a listed company, ownership management is governed by the ownership regulation we have set up between collapse and government, and that is that we take signals directly into organs – not from the Parliament's pulpit. When we then find that the bonus program you have is within the framework of what the previous government gave as ownership management to its companies, it will be difficult for me to stand with the moral index finger – on behalf of the Swedish government – and say that you must not do as we say, or as we said you could, you must do as we now think you should. Ownership management should then have taken the form of other guidelines. So I think we should work with better competition in the market. Making consumers change banks is perhaps the best way to use market power. We're going to work on that better to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e595	It opens for follow-up questions - first Snorre Serigstad Valen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e598	Interestingly, the Prime Minister will not raise his finger against the bonus party in DNB. However, the salary level of Norwegian workers — who have demonstrated moderation in settlement after settlement — may be of concern to the Prime Minister. This is how the Financial Crisis Committee estimates that the state is missing between 12 billion a year. DKr and DKr 13 as a result of non-payment of VAT in the financial sector. Can the Prime Minister mention one industrial policy argument that it is important to subsidise exactly the financial industry? Could not make these 12 to 13 billion. have been used for very many other good purposes that could benefit both owners of dwellings, businesses and the general population?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e605	I'm absolutely sure if we tax any more industry and get 12-13 billion. NOK, we'll have many reasonable areas to spend that money on. We could have made a long list of that. But we also have to ask the question about who is paying that bill if we introduce a tax that contributes 12-13 billion. kr more. At least it's not the payroll of the leaders, because they're not that big – even if it sounds like they are in this discussion. Of course, there are consumers who have loans, there are competition conditions for Norwegian banks, it is for young people entering the housing market, or small businesses who will have to refinance, who will then have to pay that bill. We have now increased by the counter-cyclical buffer capital requirement towards financial institutions, which was increased by the previous government. We fully agree with that and have increased the capital adequacy. Then maybe it's not the time to put even more pressure on the capital and extract more. I believe that in that case this bill would have been sent automatically to Norwegian families.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e612	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e615	It was a little surprising information from the SV leader that the previous government was working on proposals for the introduction of financial taxes. They then at least informed the Stortinget quite differently from what was said by the head of the SV, because there were several questions about how the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre worked on it, and they said that in the event they saw it in an international perspective. I don't know exactly what history is like. What I think is an interesting topic is that if this comes up at an international level – there is no doubt that there is an industry that has at least been an important player for us to have had an international financial crisis – then this industry applies even in addition to the lack of regulatory authority, of course. My question is whether the Prime Minister, like his colleague in Germany, sees the need to look at this at an international level?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e624	There are slightly different questions about what kind of treasure it should be. I understood that one of them was the VAT exemption, which it might have been a question of reintroducing – i.e. VAT from SV – or it is capital taxation, i.e. financial and mobility taxation, which I understand the Germans have been concerned about. These are two a little bit different. We're really sceptical about it because of the international conditions. Of course, if there was a general discussion, it wouldn't be unnatural if you had had it in Norway. But we think that it's basically not a well-functioning tax, and that it's going to help make capital formation a little bit more difficult. It depends entirely on where the level of taxation of such a levy is applied to capital movements. What I see as essential is that Norway should not have other forms of taxation than other countries have on its capital. At present, the introduction of more tax on banks is likely to contribute to higher interest rates on mortgages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e633	Terje Breivik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e636	If I understand the answer from the Prime Minister to the main question correctly, I'm a little disappointed by the passivity that was implicit in it. If I understand correctly, she says that the bonus program should be used with caution, it may have a different sequence – implicitly, this has happened in the case to which it is referred. At the same time, we now have experience, not least in all the talks we have had with the government party when it comes to managing the Oil Fund, that it is a government that is very busy with active ownership practice. Then I will ask the Prime Minister again to make his point of view on the need to use the Ownership – 34 pst. in DNB – and give a clear message to the Management Board and mana for eugenicity in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e642	I urge all partially or completely publicly owned companies to be sober in the way they have bonus programmes – and the management they have. However, the power of ownership must be exercised in the bodies to do so. That power of ownership has been exercised in the past by creating a framework for the kind of bonus programs you have. The previous government deflected the possibilities of bonus programs. I actually think it made sense that they did. But in terms of what is now from DNB – according to the assessments our people have made within the framework of the previous government – I have said on a general basis that I think the effect of bonus programs is exaggerated, and you start quickly giving bonuses for things that management has never had anything to do with – for example. a generally slightly higher level of interest rates, which is not necessarily because one operates more efficiently in one organisation. That's why it's not so targeted to use bonus programs in many places if you can't do it properly. That's a general answer. But the power of ownership actually has to be exercised in the organs we do, and that's what the previous government has done by creating a framework for bonus programs. DNB's bonus program is within it. If we're going to change it, we're going to go through it. But we cannot send retrospective signals on behalf of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e651	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e654	Northern Norway is the part of the country of opportunity. In recent years, North Norway has had a very positive development. There is good growth in many industries, thousands of new jobs are created, and the population is increasing. There is still a high potential for further growth and development. It depends on people and businesses, but it also depends on the political will to bet there. Our government protected the action zone, differentiated the employer's fee and also had offensive industrial policy and north-eastern action. As in the rest of the country, companies in northern Norway are dependent on good and predictable framework conditions in order to develop further. It was also the Prime Minister's concern when she was in opposition. When she was in Alta in 2010, she guaranteed that the Right in Government would not touch the financial instruments of the Action Zone. It is a guarantee that she has later gone away. In addition, companies in Northern Norway have now been informed that the employer’s fee will be greatly increased for enterprises that employ more than 42,000 people in total. It's a setback for the county. As late as February this year, Finance Minister Siv Jensen Stortinget informed that the new ESA guidelines set certain new conditions for regional aid for the energy, financial and transport industries. She also said that the scope of the new terms is uncertain. After the Question Time today, it is unclear what the government has done to Brussels. For the Workers' Party, it is crucial now to find out whether all the stones have turned around in this case, and whether Norway still has a room for action with regard to ESA. That is why I would like to invite the Prime Minister to participate in a cross-political cooperation with the Stortinget to ensure at least as good a framework for business in North Norway as what we have today. Will the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e669	I would like to participate in a cross-political work to discuss how the framework conditions should be for Norwegian business, both in North Norway and elsewhere. Good framework conditions are very important. That's why I think it's sad that we've come into the situation we're in, that transport, energy and finance have been taken out of instruments that allow state aid. But I remind you again that it actually happened last year, and the previous government did not inform the Storting at any time about this. Then I was a little surprised when I also read what the representative Helga Pedersen said in Norwegian newspapers about who is responsible for this. On the other hand, we've given praise because we've read that we've dealt with these questions in the past, but you haven't been able to make any changes. In particular, we have been working on the fact that the boundary goes between what's outside and what's within these sectors. How far do you draw the boundary, for example. in the case of refuelling stations and other areas it is important to clarify what is within and outside these exceptions? But when we are in that situation, our perception is that it is important to find targeted, good compensation measures that can help us to have good framework conditions in the future. That discussion, about what that might be, we're happy to take all the games on the Storing. But we have to make sure that there are no new state aid discussions about it. We've been in that situation before. We have had measures that have been managed close to the enterprises. Many enterprises have used them in different ways in different parts of the country. At that time, both business-oriented competence measures and innovation and innovation measures were implemented, and in some places, it was just spent on what the government has done a lot of it in its district policy, that is, building more ground for some of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e678	I record that while the government in February this year felt that the new ESA guidelines were unclear when it came to energy, finance and transport, the Prime Minister now says that this has been crystal clear since June last year. There are two stories that don't match each other. But now leave it. It is still unclear to me what the government has done to Brussels – if you have turned all the stones here, look at all the possibilities, so that transport, energy and finance will continue to receive a low employer’s fee. Therefore, I would like to ask concretely: if, in the further process, it should prove that Norway has a real room for action with regard to ESA – if there are rocks that have not been turned around and should be turned – is the Prime Minister willing to resume dialogue with ESA on the framework conditions for transport, finance and energy and for head office functions that are also affected by tax increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e685	If it turns out that there were some possibilities, of course, we don't want these changes. If we have the opportunity to change them, of course we will contribute to it. I think the most realistic thing is to discuss this in the light of our next revision of the instrument. Indeed, once the framework has been adopted in the EU, it is up to all countries to do so. So it's a question of what is transport, what is energy, and what is all of the financial activities. These are areas we've been working on and looking at the definition questions around, and that's what the Minister of Finance has answered. But the train went under the previous government, and it should have been clear, just as the train went when it was the yard industry when it was taken out when the EU made its decision to take it out, and in the same way that the train went when the differentiated employer fee was decided to be illegal at the end of the 1990s. Then we had to fight it back, but it took three to four years. I know that, because I spent an incredible amount of time getting it back, interacting with many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e694	There will be follow-up questions – first Anniken Huitfeldt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e697	The government has announced that it will pursue an active European policy. However, with regard to the issue of ostetoll, the framework conditions for non-profit institutions for the protection of children, gambling policy and employers’ fees, it seems that the active European policy is to do as the EU says, and not to actively promote Norwegian interests. My question to the Prime Minister is what results she has in an active European policy. The question is: In what questions and directives has the government gained vis-à-vis the EU in promoting Norwegian interests since it took over?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e704	Several of the measures mentioned here are issues decided by the previous government. I have to say that I am a little surprised at the Workers' Party. Is it that the Workers' Party wants us to terminate the EEA Agreement? Shouldn't we have a common code? Should we not have common public procurement rules? Are we actually going to bet on having illegal State aid, such that Norwegian companies are faced with dumping? Or: What government was sleeping on guard? In that case, it was the previous government who slept on guard, and who did not inform the Storting that there were actually proposals to withdraw transport, proposals to withdraw finance and proposals – which came a little surprising at the end of the process we have seen so far – that the energy sector is being taken out. This is what the active European policy is about: entering early, making sure to influence early, so that we do not get the kind of decisions we have actually received in terms of differentiated employer fees, or the type of decisions we have taken that the tendering rules are now such as to block the possibility of differentiation on the basis of whether the tenderers are charitable or not, or whether they are voluntary or not. I am a little surprised at these questions, when the representatives of the previous government should really be thinking about who was responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e713	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e716	I was not aware that I had asked for the word, but I can take it when I first get it. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e722	There is so much mystery that can be resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e725	I think it's a very defensive position the government is taking on a case-by-case basis. It is obvious that the issue of ostetoll had a completely different outcome under the previous government than what the government now wants. But quite symptomatic of all these issues is that the government is obviously more concerned with meeting the EU's requirements than with caring for the specific Norwegian interests on a case-by-case basis. Now we have heard that the government wants to introduce the rail directive, the postal directive and one directive after another, and now it is also completely flat for a differentiated employer's fee. Is it the case that the government has dropped the case and does not want to go further with the EU in order to improve the arrangements, so that we do not lose out on Norwegian business – with the change that the government now seems to accept?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e732	We will continue to work on a long-term strategy towards the EU to amend these rules, but the rules have been amended with effect from 1 July 2014. It will be illegal State aid, and so it took place in a decision in June 2013. The work on changing it thus had to take place before the EU took its decision. And so we've been given credit for the government being active in that work, even though what we can read out of it, was that we were primarily concerned about getting something done to get the yards back in and not so much the other sectors that are now discussed. And that is what we have done in terms of size and scope and that Bodø and Tromsø are still receiving a differentiated employer's fee. This is precisely because we have moved the boundaries – we have negotiated, we have worked to get better solutions for where the instruments can actually be used. When it comes to the long-term work, I think we all agree that we should try to get this back. In terms of short-term work, that means that if we don't implement this from 1 July, Norwegian companies will be at risk of having dumping decisions against them, they will be at risk of being excluded from public acquisitions. It's a cost not borne by the state, it has to be borne by the individual company, and I don't think we should expose them to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e748	There will be some changes to the set-up questionnaire, and in this respect the President will refer to the electronic question list. – The proposed amendments to today’s Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Geir Pollestad to the Minister for Climate and Environment, falls because the questioner is not present. Question 7, from the representative of Ms Følling to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away. Question 8, from the representative of Sverre Myrli to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, is addressed by the representative of Mani Husseini. Question 14, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e774	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e781	I allow myself to ask the question to the Minister for Climate and Environment: «The transport sector is one of the sectors that is too much pollution, noise and dust pollution. How will the Council of State facilitate the conversion of this sector into a climate-friendly fuel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e795	The transport sector in Norway, including fishing and so-called non-road tools, such as: tractors, bearing 33 pst. of national greenhouse gas emissions, of which 19 percentage points are road traffic emissions. The transport sector also plagues the population, inter alia: local pollution and noise. In particular, local air pollution is a challenge in urban areas. In order to reduce emissions from the sector, it is both important to move towards more environmentally friendly modes of transport, less transport needs and to improve technology. One of the areas of government activity has been to increase operation and maintenance on the railway network, including: to get more goods on the road instead of on the road. Better standards contribute, inter alia: for more goods on the track. Rail transport uses less energy than road transport and uses for a large part electricity. Furthermore, the bicycle bet was increased by 76 million. NOK 516 million. kr. Several on bicycles provide a high health benefit, while contributing to less use of fossil fuels. National transport plan 2014-2023 assumes that the growth of passenger transport in metropolitan areas is to be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors. Whole urban environment agreements are presented as a new form of cooperation in the national transport plan, which will help achieve the zero growth target in the nine major urban areas. Further conversion to more climate-friendly fuels, such as electricity and biogas, will help to reduce environmental problems in the transport sector. There are already several instruments in place that have stimulated environmentally friendly fuels, such as the charging system and the placing on the market requirements for biofuels. We have seen positive developments in recent years in this sector. In particular, there has been a significant increase in the sales of electric cars. Electric cars are climate and environmentally favourable because they do not have direct emissions of CO2, NOx and particulate matter, but they do contribute to noise and local air pollution via the tyres. In February, electric cars had a market share of 12 pst. of new passenger vehicles. For new passenger cars, the average CO2 emissions have been reduced by 16 grams per kilometre from February of last year to February of this year. The Climate Communication set a target for new passenger cars not to emit more than 85 grams of CO2 per kilometre in 2020. As demonstrated by the political platform, the government will carry out a comprehensive review of vehicle and fuel charges in order to stimulate a more modern and environmentally friendly car park. We shall also require all new public vehicles, new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains to use low or zero emission technologies when technology so requires. Infrastructure is also essential to convert to more climate-friendly fuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e824	I thank the Minister for the answer. I agree that there is much that has gone in a positive direction, for which there has been strong support both in the political environment and in the population. We can see that, among other things. for electric car sales which have increased dramatically. But at the same time we see some challenges ahead, and I also think a little bit about maritime transport, which is really a cross-political desire to strengthen by getting more goods over by sea instead of on the roads. One challenge I face is to point out that the sulphur directive, which was introduced as a climate-friendly measure, can actually weaken the competitiveness of maritime transport. And then my question is: how can we find measures that are both climate friendly and that strengthen the competitiveness of – in this case – maritime transport? Because from a climate point of view, it will be important to get more goods across by sea and not by road.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e833	As I said in my first answer, we know that the transport sector accounts for a very large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions. We know that we have a challenge to reduce by 0.8 million tonnes of CO2 by 2020. We have to do everything we can to get more goods across from road to sea, and we have to look at a comprehensive arrangement of charging policy to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e841	In addition, we see that there are major challenges to our metropolitan cities, challenges with cows that many like to travel at the same time, at the same time, and that's both a traffic problem, it's climate challenges, it's a noise problem, and you can get bad out of the dust. It is important to invest in collective solutions, as both the previous government did, and as I see the new government intends to do. However, one measure that can also work, in particular in combination with investment in collective solutions, is the introduction of cow pricing. Will the Minister for Climate and Environment recommend it as one of the measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e848	As agreed in the National Transport Plan, we will take the growth of traffic in the metropolitan areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors. Shopping is a tool that works, but it is important for this government that local politicians themselves choose the tools they want to use. But we're going to make demands for results in order to get funds in the urban environment agreements. Together, we have to make an effort to move traffic to public transport, corridors and bicycles. But it is an important principle: it is the local self-government that works, and it is the local politicians who have to choose which tools to use themselves. But we have to pay for results here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e857	‘Section 2.2.11 of the 2011 paper game agreement states that ‘Derogations of Yews implemented by the environmental management shall, as far as possible, be carried out during the licensing period but shall nevertheless be carried out in a cost-effective manner’. In Uppland, 5 animals out of an 8-yev quota have still not been taken out, even if the licence period expired on 15 February. The Environment Directorate will now await the possible implementation of hi-takes. Does the Council of State think this is in line with the rapture agreement?»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e864	Initially, I think it is worth stressing that in order to give a complete understanding of how the game management is to be carried out, it is necessary to read in conjunction. Among other things, the rapprochement says: that Norwegian wild game management is to be carried out within the framework of the Berne Convention, the two-part objective and the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act. This means that evaluations are also required in addition to the specific formulations resulting from each point of the robberies agreement. The answer to the question from the representative Ivar Odnes is yes. I believe that the handling of the Environment Directorate is in line with the rapprochement agreement. As can be seen from the point of view of the predatory game agreement referred to in the question, environmental management must also assess what is most appropriate in the light of cost-effectiveness. It is the Environment Directorate that, in line with the Robbery Agreement, has the authority to assess this, and I am confident that the Directorate will assess this in a good way. During the period from the robberies agreement was adopted in the Stortinget in 2011 and until the end of 2013, exceptional withdrawals of a total of 120 jets have been carried out in Norway. The Directorate-General for the Environment has now signalled that what will be done in previous years will be the continuous evaluation of exceptional withdrawals of yours. However, the starting point for the stock assessments has changed from previous years by the fact that the stock is no longer significantly above the stock target of 39 annual juvenile coal on a national basis. In 2013, 44 jervehi were registered in Norway, but of these, four hi-takes were carried out, so that at the entrance to the sheep grazing season, the herd population was similar to the national stock target. Compared to the previous year, when the herd was significantly above the stock, the space for action is now smaller to carry out exceptional withdrawals. This includes, in conjunction with the fact that the requirement for precision in administrative decisions increases further towards the national stock targets of the predatory game in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e877	It's important that the Storting took note of what the Council of State is bringing here. For Uppland's part, the situation is dramatic, with great loss rates in the last year. But I also record that in region 7, north, where one has a yew quota of 23 animals, it's only taken out six animals. Licensing should be used as a stock regulation measure. Does the Council of State think that it is cost-effective that the 2014 grazing season comes without one having regulated herds of yews?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e884	As I explained in my initial answer, the robberies deal has to be read in context in order to give an overall understanding. It also implies that the assessment of the individual points of the predatory game agreement must be carried out within the framework of the legislation we have, international commitments and the two-part objective of achieving as close as possible to the stock targets. It is an intention in the predatory game agreement that a person wants to reduce the proportion of your hi-takes and – as far as possible – take out yours before the breeding period. At the same time, the agreement on predators also opens up to the Environment Directorate itself to assess what is most appropriate in each individual case. That is why I am confident that it will be assessed here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e893	There are just the different types of corrections that the predators will use to evaluate the license penalty that will be set in the fall. When the predators set their quotas, they are based on the stock records they have made. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment think that these assessments from the predatory wildlife subjects should be reviewed again at the end of the licensing period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e900	It is important that we have a good interaction with regional predators in order to achieve the national targets here. We see that the withdrawal through the ordinary license agreement has so far not produced the desired result. We now also see that after several years the stock of youves has been significantly above the stock target of 39 annual young coals, and therefore we are now quite close to the national stock target. As has been said, the Environment Directorate has, through exceptional withdrawals, taken out more than 120 yorks in the period from the adoption of the Robbery Agreement until the end of 2013. The inventory shows that the Directorate-General for the Environment has been successful in the level of precision of the evaluations carried out in the context of exceptional withdrawals of your material. As the representative of Odnes knows, we will also have a meeting early in June with the regional predators, because it is important that we get that cooperation to work in a good way. But we have to be close to the national stock targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e915	«Forests in which it grows and the soil in which it grows may bind large amounts of carbon. Forests therefore play an important role in climate policy. What does the Council of State think is the best way to manage forests from a climate perspective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e922	The forest is important in the climate context. The Norwegian forest takes up over 60 pst. of our total greenhouse gas emissions. Forests store carbon from the atmosphere and help reduce emissions by replacing fossil energy by bioenergy and by replacing wood with other emission-intensive materials. In our government platform, we say that the government will place greater emphasis on climate policy objectives in the management of Norwegian forests. There are several measures that may be relevant to optimise the uptake of CO2 in the forest. The climate agreement includes: the planting of forests on new areas, increased plant density and enhanced forest protection as potential measures. Increased plant density may result in higher carbon uptake per area. Among other things, because the plant level was particularly high after the war, today we have a high carbon capture in the Norwegian forests. However, the recording will fall over time if we do not take action. The government is following up the forest measures that stand in the climate agreement. The Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have, among others: delivered a mandate to the Environment Directorate, the State Agriculture Administration and the Norwegian Institute of Forest and Landscape to assess forest protection as climate action and under what conditions this should be done. We are also waiting for background material on forest fertilisation as climate action, from the same disciplines. Fertilizers can increase plant growth and thus increase carbon uptake in the forest. At the same time, we are creating a strategy for planting forests on new areas such as climate action. In addition to the importance of forests for food and climate, forests have many other important environmental values. Half of our endangered and nearly endangered species live in forests. Forests are also important for outdoors and nature experiences for a large number of people. We therefore have a specific responsibility to manage forest resources in a holistic way and to sustainably operate forests. Norwegian forest owners have good traditions for long-term management of forest resources. In the development of good climate policy forest management, good interaction with business interests and environmental interests is crucial. I believe that, through good cooperation, based on thorough, professional assessments, we will be able to get good measures that will enable the forest to contribute to climate change far ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e949	The forest binds most of the CO2 when it is growing – that is when it captures the most. At adult age, it's less growth, so it binds less CO2. There have been differing views on protection versus active use and what is the most effective climate action. Some say that protecting the forest is best. I believe that biology suggests that it is wrong, and that the best use is an active use of the forest resource; that we take resources and plants again. What is the overall assessment of this by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e964	I think it's important to deal with the facts and the existing knowledge base we have. We have now asked for a background report on the protection of forests such as climate action by the Environment Directorate, the State Agriculture Administration and the Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes. That report comes to the fall. Then I hope that there too we get more facts about the problem that the representative raises. I think the most important thing is to optimize the areas. Some areas may be better suited to carbon stocks and protection and others better suited to production. This is where the professionals fight. That's why getting a slightly better factual basis for those assessments in our interest, and we hope that the report we get for the autumn will help us to make a better assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e973	In the response of the Council of State, the words ‘carbon stock’ and ‘protection’ are now used as a contrast to active forestry and carbon capture. I am not sure if it was intended, but at least it can be perceived as such. The opinion of the centre party is that some of the best carbon storage we can have in forestry is just that we are actively using the forest, for example. Now, if we bind CO2 in this building that we're now in, and that the best way to bind CO2 is to put the forest into action. Does the Council agree with such an assessment? One last question: in the first budget of the new government, the three-based innovation programme, which was about the new use of wood for new products, was cut. clothing and cutting of the energy fission system. What is the Council of State's assessment of how the two cuts affect the active use of the forest and how to obtain new products that bind CO2 in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e993	I'm saying that the most important thing is to optimise the areas, and it's a professional assessment of which areas are the most suitable. Some areas are best suited for carbon storage and protection, and other areas are better suited for production. One doesn't exclude the other, but we want more facts to take a proper assessment of it. On the question of whether it is within the budget, I cooperate with the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the follow-up to the Climate Change Agreement on Forests. With regard to budgetary appropriations more specifically, we need to get back to them in the ordinary budgetary process. But improving the competitiveness of the woodworking industry, through its opportunities for products and technology development, is important to us, so we will return to this in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1004	It might have been tempting to join in the previous conversation here, but we need to move on to another important topic. ‘Last year, 1,004 rhinos and tens of thousands of elephants were killed by snipers. Animals such as tigers and black rhinos are threatened by illegal hunting. This brutal environmental crime is financing terrorism, drugs and weapons. Proposals have been made for a UN Special Envoy and a GA Resolution on the subject. The United Kingdom has granted 10 million. pounds to combat environmental crime. How will the government increase the appropriations and strengthen its efforts to combat environmental crime, and will it work for a resolution and specialisation against illegal hunting in the UN?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1015	The number of rhinoceros killed in South Africa alone in 2013 was almost twice as many as in 2012. At a meeting held in December last year under the Convention on Trade in Endangered Species – CITES, it was established that Africa can lose up to one fifth of its entire elephant population within 10 years if the level of illegal hunting is not reduced. Trade in timber is also an important cause of deforestation. I have been working to put the issue on the agenda at the first meeting of the United Nations Environment Assembly under the United Nations Environment Programme in June this year. Here the Environment Ministers will be able to focus on the problem and support further efforts to combat illegal hunting. The problem of illegal hunting of animals should also be seen in the context of other environmental crime. Here are links to organised crime and terrorist activities. Capacity building in developing countries is therefore important. In this context, the government’s climate and forest projects have also supported the UN and Interpol in the fight against organised crime in the forest sector in developing countries, in particular illegal logging and trafficking in illegal timber and timber products. The capacity-building efforts in the projects also contribute to the fight against other environmental crime, such as crawling and illegal trafficking in endangered species. Police and prosecution authorities participate in training and training programmes. The laws of the authorities to combat corruption, tax fraud and money laundering are being restated. Projects have produced concrete results in the form of seizures and arrests. Last August, rainforest trees corresponding to 20,000 trucks were seized by the police in Venezuela and Costa Rica. The climate and forest project now looks at the possibility of scaling up these efforts, with particular emphasis on intergovernmental cooperation and port control. East Africa, which is also struggling with the creeping of elephants, will be relevant in this respect. Any increased government appropriations to combat environmental crime must normally be assessed in budgetary procedures. The Ministry of Climate and Environment, in consultation with other departments concerned, will consider the issue of a UN resolution and a separate special issue when formally addressed to the UN General Assembly in New York.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1032	I thought it was very positive in that answer, and I don't think there's any doubt that the Environment Minister and I are quite a few about the seriousness of this problem. It can be quite a dramatic situation for a number of animal species, but also for some of those that are most familiar. It made a big impression on me when South Africa's Environment Minister, when she was visiting last year, told me that they have as much as 90 pst. by all black rhinoceros in the world, and that these animals – at the pace of the day – could be eradicated in 2025. It's almost impossible to understand. But that is precisely why I am concerned about the measures taken to tackle this, and I am well aware that the climate and forest project can have a slightly greater potential – within a year – to spend extra money if there is a good deal of action. I could imagine repeating the question. Will the Council of State be a driver for us to contribute extra funds in this international work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1039	As I said in my first answer, I will use the UN Environment Assembly in June to send a clear political signal that this is an important issue that has environmental implications, but also consequences for economic and social development in countries, especially in developing countries. I think it's a good idea that we're working with the United Kingdom, which has already done a good job on this, to bring it up to the United Nations Environment Assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1044	It's positive that it's being recorded there, so I just think I repeat that my call is to constantly look at the possibilities to contribute in different ways, and then I also hope that a serious person will evaluate the proposals that have been made in the United Nations, which I know have some support internationally. I ask for permission to add an additional question, because serious environmental crime is a major problem in our own country as well. Research carried out on this subject suggests that as much as half of all wolves killed in Norway and Sweden are likely to be killed by illegal hunting. It's gross environmental crime, and because the population is threatened, it's very important to do something about it. I could imagine asking the Minister for Climate and Environment: What can she think of doing more to combat illegal hunting for wolves?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1053	It was a little bit on the side of the original question, but here we have a common interest in combating illegal hunting for wolves, which is serious environmental crime, and when we have a broad deal in the Great Britain about stockpiles on wolves, we have to use the tools we have to do this in a good way. I think some of the challenge with this environmental crime is also that we don't have a good enough zone management of predatory policies, so we see that having an active predatory policy is also a good tool to combat environmental crime, which is a serious problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1058	Then we are hoped that both the wolf and the rhinoceros will meet safer times. The next question is from the representative Ivar Odnes to the Minister for Climate and Environment. Odnes has had a question before, so the president assumes that one of these is a superior from the previous question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1067	That's right, that's right, and I'm happy to continue the discussion with the Minister for the Environment, but on other topics, and it's about cultural memory protection and peaceful buildings. ‘In Norway there are approximately 3 700 permanently housed buildings in private ownership. These represent an important part of our common cultural heritage. In addition to the challenge of securing the building heritage against fire and other destruction, owners of peaceful buildings experience being rejected by insurance companies. This despite the fact that the Riksantikvar covers the extra costs of fire. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the owners of this cultural heritage are insured and to achieve price competition in this area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1076	Good and comprehensive insurance schemes are primarily the responsibility of insurance companies, but on the basis of the fact that owners have been rejected by insurance companies, the Riksantikvaret has taken initiatives against the insurance industry to ensure owners of peaceful buildings as well as owners of non-protected houses. This government is committed to ensuring good framework conditions for the owners of peaceful and protective buildings. I therefore believe that the Riksantikvaren initiative towards the insurance companies is important. Peaceful buildings make up a small proportion of the total building stock and, fortunately, there are very few protected buildings damaged by fire. I feel that the owners have great awareness of fire and safety as the values are irreplaceable. There are, therefore, few examples of fire damage in peaceful and protective buildings that have triggered replacements in addition to normal. When the accident occurs and the building burns down, the Riksantikware will only exceptionally require reconstruction. If so, the Riksantikvar will go in and cover the extra costs of rebuilding according to antique requirements. The same applies in the case of minor damage. I therefore believe that the risk to the companies is small. However, if the owners of rescued buildings are offered poor conditions, they should consider submitting a complaint to the Finansklagennmaden.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1087	I thank you for your answer. I have registered that the Riksantikvaren has had an active involvement with the insurance company in letter form in 2012 and also now in 2014. I still record that the owners have difficulty in securing their property, and that they also have to pay a more expensive insurance sum, so I had hoped that perhaps the Council of State could have taken an even more offensive approach to the insurance company when this is the case. But what kind of role does the Minister for Climate and Environment want to take? If we are to reduce the number of peaceful buildings that go out of history, this is also part of the basis for the owner – to have the economy to take care of the building.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1092	It is important to maintain the principle of good and comprehensive insurance arrangements. It is primarily the responsibility of the insurance companies. But that's why the Riksantikvarn wants to follow up on this, because I think it's a little wrong, and the insurance companies think there's a greater risk than it really is, as long as the Riksantikvarn says that one has to pay the extra cost if there's any peace. So I think it is important, if necessary, to get some of the specific cases and complain to the Financial Complaint Board to see if the insurance companies are still up to this, and believe that there is an additional cost. We are very concerned that owners of peaceful buildings should not have greater challenges than they need – and continue that work – but it is an important principle that it is the responsibility of insurance companies. We cannot go in and assume that responsibility from the insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1099	It's important objects. There is one reason why these are protected by law, and that this should be taken care of. In the history of Lærdal and the great fire that was there, which also threatened objects that were peaceful and protective, one part was about the piece of insurance, but it is also about being able to give the owner the economy to prevent fire and secure its objects – it is also part of our task. Does the Minister for Climate and Environment work to bring fire safety measures into the peace, protective construction also?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1104	Here it's also important to be aware of the order. Point one: It is the owners who have the primary responsibility. Fortunately, the owners of peaceful buildings are very conscious of that responsibility, because there are values that are irreplaceable. Then the municipalities are responsible for securing their special three-storey buildings. Then we can come in and use our competence at the Riksantikvarn to get this done. But we're busy placing the responsibility where it should be. But we will, in close cooperation with the owners and municipalities, make sure that we have a good fire safety in this country, because we have 180 tree-house environments that are important to our common cultural heritage and that can be irreplaceable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1113	This question, from the representative Jenny Ellaug Følling to the Minister for Economic Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1116	‘The government’s cut-off in regional development funds means that county municipalities and their partners, Innovation Norway, are getting less to start-ups and new innovative activities. Many companies would not have done well through the ‘bloodbathing phase’ if they had not received birth help through Innovation Norway. How will the Council of State help founders, and what means will replace the strong cuts in regional development/company law instruments in District Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1123	Work on promoting business development and innovation across the country is very important for the government, and improving the conditions for entrepreneurs and start-ups is an important part of this. The Government Platform says that government will give priority to instruments that can boost innovation and re-establishment in all parts of the country, with emphasis on entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. Economic policy is far wider than that often associated with industrial policy instruments. It is the sum of the framework conditions that affect business that are important to our future ability to value. Transport, research and framework conditions for business are just some of the areas where the government has already implemented measures to create jobs, and not least to strengthen growth across Norway. The main mechanisms for triggering innovation and industrial development in Norway are the nationwide public sector instruments. These schemes are also available in the districts. The main share of the funds allocated through Innovation Norway and the other public sector actors is nationwide and shall support the best projects, irrespective of whether they are located in Halden or in Hammerfest. An example of such a scheme is Innovation Norway’s set-up grant scheme, which will help to bring together more good entrepreneurs across the country. In addition to the funds available in the nationwide schemes, nearly 1.2 billion has been allocated. kr in regional development funds in 2014. These funds shall allow county councils to focus their efforts on innovation and innovation. As I said, entrepreneurs are important to the government. The government platform says, among other things: that programmes for the commercialisation of research results should be strengthened and that funds for the seed funds should be increased in order to further develop new businesses and innovations. The 2014 budget provides funds for the creation of two new seed funds. The funds shall make initial investments in the seed and start-up phase of new and innovative and internationally competitive enterprises throughout the country. In order to stimulate increased investment in research and innovation in business, the User-led Innovation Arena, BIA, in the Norwegian Research Council was reinforced by 80 million. kr in the 2014 budget, compared to the draft budget of the previous government. Similarly, the annual tax deductions for own R & D were increased from 5.5 million by the SkattenFUNN scheme. NOK 8 million. kr. Thus, several will be subject to the scheme and firms with increasing research activity can make more use of the scheme. In addition to their strengthening, the government has also strengthened the business environment in many other areas in order to gain a more competitive business. Among other things, we have reduced the total taxes and taxes by a total of 7.3 billion. kr in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1138	The Council of State does not respond to what I am actually asking. I'm asking about the large cuts in regional development funds of 430 million. kr which is expected to also lead to a reduction to Innovation Norway. County being cut by between 30 and 60 million. kr, it is not possible to maintain the rights of Innovation Norway, and it is precisely companies that are about to start up and come through the “bloodbath phase”, this framework. It's a founding enemy game. So my question is, how will the government follow up entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1143	The ability of the founders to establish themselves is, fortunately, dependent on much more than the regional development funds of the county councils. But even after the reduction in the 2014 budget, the county councils get about 1.2 billion. to continue to contribute to this work. But the government has, among other things, through its tax reliefs of more than 7 billion. kr, such as may be used by private individuals to invest in new activities. Bringing in billions of dollars and then handing out small amounts back is not the best business policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1150	One must actually start to raise money and pay taxes if the tax instrument is to work. And what is added to this is the differentiated employer charge – which is based on the general measures such as transport and energy, and which affects travel life in the districts – that comes, in total, up to these powerful cuts in the district works. The Prime Minister said that she believes that politics works, and I believe this also works on district companies. How does the Council of State believe that this in total will affect new start-ups?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1155	This government pursues a more offensive industrial policy than the previous government, including: by improving the framework conditions for competitive business. We do that in a lot of ways. We do that by focusing more on research and development. We do that by making sure that we don't withdraw private investment capital, but leave it in the districts, where people live. The policy of the previous government, which was about withdrawing billions and distributing small sums afterwards, may appear to be an active enterprise policy, but is, in reality, a policy that hampers private investment capital in Norway. Therefore, it is an objective of this government to reduce the tax on Norwegian ownership. If we are to ensure that the companies remain in Norway, that the board meetings are still held at Evje, in Halden and in Hammerfest and not in Shanghai, in Houston and Singapore, we must reduce the special tax on Norwegian local ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1168	This question, from the representative Sverre Myrli to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be raised by the representative Mani Hussaini.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1171	‘The government cut the grant by 20 pst. to municipalities that live as asylum-seekers. At the same time, it is an objective to be able to live more quickly than 900 children waiting for asylum. Several municipalities now say that the settlement of lone minor asylum seekers is becoming more difficult. The councils have stated that she wants to settle more quickly, especially by children. If the Council of State really believes it, why is it cut into funds to help children who are alone in reception can become residents and become part of Norwegian society?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1178	At the end of February this year, 945 children were expected to settle. Of these, 434 have become municipal seats and move to a municipality in a short time. This government has increased the integration grant for children in order to have this group settled more quickly. The reimbursement scheme for municipal expenditure on child protection measures, to which the representative here refers, applies only to lone minors. 142 of those now waiting are lone minor refugees. Until 2013, the State refunded 100 pst. expenditure by municipalities on child-restraint measures relating to lone minor asylum seekers and refugees in addition to a municipal proportion. The Government of Stoltenberg II proposed in its budget for 2014 to reduce the reimbursement from 100 p.m. to 90 pst. This proposal represented an estimated savings of 120 million. kr. We agreed with the Stoltenberg government that the development towards the need for child protection for all lone minor refugees is not the right way to go. The Government therefore proposed to reduce the reimbursement to 80 pst, corresponding to a further 120 million. kr. In addition, the government agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left to strengthen the special grant by the settlement of single minor refugees of 120 million. kr. We have redeployed funds between two schemes that are both aimed at single minor refugees. The ordinary grant for the residence of lone minor refugees has increased in parallel with the reduction in the reimbursement scheme. The government wants to turn the financing of actions for single minors into the special grant paid to all municipalities for each single minor refugee they settle. Children shall receive the follow-up that each individual needs. But not all children need a child protection measure in the municipality. By transferring funds from the reimbursement scheme to the special grant, we give municipalities greater freedom to find for themselves the solutions they think are best for the individual child. Municipalities are now free to use the special grant for the services that the municipalities themselves believe are best for the children. The increase in 2014 in the integration grant and the special grant together represent a greater transfer to municipalities than the reduction in the reimbursement scheme for child protection services. Overall, municipalities appear better in 2014 than in 2013. So far, the municipalities have increased the settlement by 24 pst. in relation to the same time last year. That's not enough, but it's going in the right direction. We have a cooperation agreement with the KS, with clear objectives of resettlement of refugees. The agreement obliges the municipalities and the state. I have great expectations that the municipalities will also in future join in and settle those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1204	According to the party colleague and rapporteur of the Council of State in the municipality of Håler, the government’s policy ‘will lead to a weakening of integration’. He says that the government with this proposal punishes the municipalities that have been nice to settle. This will cost the municipality of Håler 6-7 million. kr, and it forces him to stop the settlement of new asylum children. So the blue-blue government is punishing municipalities that have cost-effectively built up good child protection measures, but even worse: the children who are in reception and who have fled and put their lives on hold have to wait even longer for a municipality to live in. Does the Council of State think that the rapporteur in the city of Håler is wrong when he says that the cuts to the government will lead to poorer integration? How will the Council of State ensure that municipalities such as Hyler do not feel compelled to stop the settlement of new asylum children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1213	I will record what the representative has to say. I think it is a pity if there are some municipalities that are unable to settle, as they have promised. We have an agreement with KS and the municipalities, which will be able to settle. What we have now done, introduced a prop, I believe is the right way to go. Overall, municipalities will receive more money for their work on housing and integration than they had in 2013. The children who need help will get it. But not all children need child protection measures in the municipalities. By increasing the special grant to go to lone minor refugees and by increasing the integration grant, municipalities will have a better economy to live both adults and children in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1222	The council said that the Workers' Party proposed a cut of 10 pst. That's absolutely right. But the essential thing here – which the Council of State did not mention – is that the Workers' Party quickly reversed this, because we listened to what the municipalities and KS were saying, that this would prevent the settlement. The working party chose to listen and to reverse. So it's a little strange that the Council of State chooses to cut by 20 pst. and at the same time talking about a national livelihood. I like the word "dugnad", but what characterizes a virtue is that there are many who contribute. The government's contribution to this effort is therefore not so much to boast of. Will the Council of State listen to the relevant municipalities and KS and reverse this cut, so that more asylum-seekers are settled?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1231	As I said in my previous answer, the municipalities together have achieved a better economy in 2014 than they had in 2013 in terms of integration grants. What this government has done is that we have redistributed funds. There is an excess of child protection measures – now we are talking about child protection measures, and all children do not need child protection measures in the municipality – and we have increased the special grant to settle single minor asylum seekers, while at the same time we have equal rates for children. So the ability of municipalities to settle minor refugees and asylum seekers is as good in 2014 as it was in 2013 – actually better.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1242	‘Sleep apnea is a fatal disease. Calculations suggest that hundreds of thousands of Norwegians suffer from sleep apnoea, but the few are diagnosed. According to the Free Hospital Selection website, there are long waiting lists for the investigation and treatment of this disease. The risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, diabetes and depression is increasing for each breath stop beyond normal. Untreated sleep apnea increases the risk of accidents at work and traffic. What will the Council of State do to cut the long waiting lists for a sleep investigation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1249	Nearly one in six adults in the population have some form of obstructive sleep apnea. The disorder affects both sexes and all age groups — but is most common among men, overweight, smokers, elderly, people with cardiovascular diseases and those with type 2 diabetes. Most people have a mild form without plague, but around 8 pst. the population has sleep apnoea that can be characterised from moderate to severe. It is estimated that one in five persons with the condition have been diagnosed. The diagnosis of sleep apnea is based on the measurement of the breathing pattern at night. The studies are costly and require hospitalisation. There are studies that can be done at home, but they are not equally reliable. There is a wide variation in recording equipment and specific competence is required to interpret the results. The treatment of moderate to severe sleep apnea is mainly the use of a mask that prevents breathing. The mask needs to be adapted to each patient, and most people need to change the mask annually. Some patients may get rid of the disease or reduce the burden by changing their lifestyle and getting advice on it. General practitioners with special competence in sleep apnea are likely to participate more than at present in research and treatment. General practitioners and specialists in and outside hospitals should cooperate more closely on this patient group. If more investigation can be carried out outside the hospitals, either by a specialist or a general practitioner, but to ensure that the patient is adequately and properly qualified, more could be investigated outside the hospital and the waiting time reduced. Although more hospitals have longer waiting time than desired, there are hospitals with waiting time of two to three weeks for investigation. Patients should consider whether to seek treatment at the hospital with the shortest waiting time. In addition, regional health establishments that have an agreement with private sleep investigation should use the agreements to a greater extent so that patients do not have to wait unnecessarily for the investigation. As demonstrated by the government’s political platform, this government wants to introduce free treatment choices and increase the purchase of private health services to reduce health cows.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1264	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have also been informed that there is a method to determine whether a person may have sleep apnea or exclude it. This method, as the Council of State said, can be used by the permanent physician after short training and does not require hospitalisation. By using this method more widely, patients who do not have sleep apnoea can be hatched and thus removed from the waiting lists for hospital sleep investigation and shortened waiting lists. This method is only used by a few general practitioners because there are no reimbursement arrangements or tariffs for this diagnosis. Will the Council of State facilitate the application of tariffs for this work, so that more permanent practitioners will apply this method of diagnosis?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1271	As mentioned in my reply, each method of investigation is generally applicable and can also be carried out by the prescriber. Diagnosis is, of course, one of the main tasks of decision-makers and part of their core activities. It is a provision for the reimbursement of costs of examination and treatment by doctors who regulate what may be required by the decision-maker in reimbursement and in proportion. At present, a doctor may require a consultation tariff and, where appropriate, a time tariff if the consultation lasts beyond 20 minutes, which may be the tariff to be used in these cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1276	I thank the Council of State for the answer and do not have any further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1286	‘Development plan 2030 has been consulted with proposals for only one hospital in the South. This has caused strong reactions, and 5,000 participated in torch trains to maintain the emergency and food supply at Flekkefjord Hospital. The government announced a new national health and hospital plan during 2015, and according to the Council of State, it becomes so detailed that regional health businesses will become redundant. Will the Council of State ask Health South-East to wait for further consideration of the 2030 Development Plan until national health plan has been submitted?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1293	The current management system implies that all regions are developing strategies and that health businesses are making development plans before the planning of major investment measures can be started. These must also be seen in the light of the more social assessments. Southern hospitals have a development plan up to 2030 in consultation now, and it describes several different models of future hospital structure. The Southern Hospital has stated in a separate letter, which was sent together with the hearing, that the hospital board has not taken a decision on which of these models should be selected. I assume that the hearing that is now taking place is a real hearing, and I point out that investment decisions are only taken at a significant later date. I would also like to show that Health South-East has informed that investments in Vestre Viken, Oslo University Hospital, the Hospital Inland as well as several smaller investments will take place before investments at Sørlanden Hospital. Health South-East does not take a position on the development plan for Sørlanden Hospital, nor on the planning of a specific investment measure, until the Sørlanden hospital has finally dealt with the matter. The Southern Hospital has set the consultation deadline of 1 September and plans to examine the project report in the Management Board in January 2015. As you know, I will present the National Health and Hospital Plan in the autumn of 2015. This will provide guidance on how to develop the specialist health service in the future. At the same time, business development and planning of new hospital buildings, or major upgrades of existing hospitals, are extensive and time-consuming processes. Therefore, I have generally been concerned that development and planning work should not be put on hold until the National Health and Hospital Plan has been submitted. There are generally great needs and plans in Hospital-Norway, and we cannot have an investment vacuum until the next autumn. Southern hospitals have stated that they will coordinate the development plan with the Health and Sickness Plan. Therefore, a final decision on the development plan in the Sørlande hospital is not expected until the end of 2015/beginning of 2016. New investment measures in the South-East Hospital, regardless of the option chosen, are outside the long-term budget period of Health South-East, which runs until 2017. As I see it, the hospital structure in South Africa is unlikely to change in the foreseeable future. At the same time, I am aware that Sørlanden Hospital is planning new construction for the psychiatry in Kristiansand. Health South-East has assumed that this investment can be started within the current long-term planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1310	I thank you for the answer, but I had hoped that the answer would have been different from the frustration created locally about this. It has been raised beyond doubt that the local hospital with its emergency response in Flekkefjord has saved many lives. The Government Platform reads as follows: ‘The Sickness Plan must also address local hospitals and the important role they have in ensuring preparedness for life and health throughout the country.’ Can the Council of State elaborate on what the government is putting into those formulations? From the main question, will it mean that the new hospital plan will define the contents of Flekkefjord Hospital and determine whether the hospital will lose its emergency and food supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1322	I would think that my answer would help to reduce the unrest of the representative Odd Omland, because I described a time phase that shows how early in the discussion you are now, linked to many different alternatives to how Southland Hospitals should develop and how the structures should be. Now there is a development plan on consultation. After the development plan, there will be an idea phase planning. After Idea Phase Planning, there will be a concept phase, where there will be an assessment of at least three options, one of which will be the zero option, which is the structure of the day. Then you start approaching indirect decisions about what should actually be the structure. Then one goes into a pre-project phase, and then the matter ends up about a construction project on my table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1329	There is no doubt that there is uncertainty, and I hope that the Council of State has got along now, with 5,000 in a torch train in Flekkefjord. In the Fädrelandsvenn on 14 March this year, the Health and Social Director of Kristiansand also warns the municipalities against the new development plan, given that many tasks have been proposed in the plan transferred from the hospital to the municipalities without any transfer of resources. Flekkefjord Hospital is one of the most well-driving countries in terms of both economy and quality. The hospital has managed to obtain skilled doctors and skilled staff through many years of extensive investment mainly in Germany. These constitute an important support. In view of the proposed closure of the emergency and food supply in the hearing, there is now a fear of recruitment and loss of staff. And the question is, does the Council of State worry that by not waiting for the national health plan, there may be problems in recruiting and losing staff? And on the other hand... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1338	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1341	In my first reply to the representative Omland, I said that, as I see it, there will not be any changes in the Sørland hospital in the foreseeable future. The representative still talks as if you are facing a near imminent closure of the offer in Flekkefjord – you do not. I also hope that Omland, as a representative of his home country, will help to reduce that unrest, precisely to avoid the negative impact that the representative raises on his question, namely that it creates problems with recruitment and offers in Flekkefjord. The alternative to having an open discussion, starting with many alternatives, in the public space is that one lets these processes take place in enclosed spaces. I don't think the representative of Omland or Stortinget would be happy with that. [[The President clubs.]] Then one must also help to find out that this is a long-term timetable.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1352	The question is: ‘In a debate in Stortinget on 11 December 2013 on the capacity problems of Oslo University Hospital, OUS, it was criticised in the first years that hospital planning is too much about the long-term vision of Campus Oslo. It's about winding up Ullevål and Aker and building new OUS in one big unit in the Gaustad area. The project could take a 30-year period and cost between 35 and 40 billion. kr, and it was pointed out in Stortinget that it is highly uncertain whether there will be political upheaval. How much resources has the OUS used and will it use in the future for the planning of Campus Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1361	We are all aware that Oslo University Hospital has challenges related to the building mass. The hospital has a total building mass of 1 million. m2, where at the base of one third is protected, and where there is a significant need for upgrading in parts of the building mass. Oslo University Hospital operates around 40 different addresses today, and the hospital believes that this in itself is an obstacle to good and efficient hospital operations. On this basis, Oslo University Hospital started work in 2012 to investigate the future location of functions. This will be submitted on a planned basis for assessments by the Management Board in June 2014. Oslo University Hospital informs us that several different solutions are being considered, including: shared operation between Ullevål and Gaustad, including the Rikshospital, to gather the vast majority of functions in one of the two locations, and what it will cost to upgrade and repair existing buildings instead of building new – the so-called zero option. On 17 December 2012, the Management Board of Oslo University Hospital HF approved an overall framework for the 36-million idea phase project. until the matter is brought before the Management Board in June 2014. The OUS states that the total costs are expected to be slightly lower than budgeted when the planned project is completed by the summer. How much the further planning will cost, it's hard to say anything about now. Parallel to the idea phase project, there have been completely necessary improvements to the building mass in order to close the fire-related and work environment of Oslo University Hospital. In addition, measures are being taken to extend capacity, such as: involves the establishment of several operating rooms and the increase of post-operative and intensive capacity in the event of conversion. The acute reception function of Oslo University Hospital has recently expanded, and that means that the reception capacity will be satisfactory in a timely manner in the future. This also includes the provision of the regional trauma function. The term «Campus Oslo» does not refer to Gaustad, as the representative of Bøhler makes it. It is used partly for the whole of the existing Ullevål-Gaustad area, including the university, and partly for the area around Gaustad and Blindern.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1381	Thank you very much for your answer. It was interesting to hear that, in the opinion of the Council of State, it is such that you operate with real alternatives in this project, also developing the building mass where it is today. It is such that the building mass on Aker is the best maintained if you compare Ullevål and Aker, and approx. 60 pst. of the building mass on Aker is in good condition and can be used immediately. In the presentations with which it has been operated up to now, it has seemed that what you're recommending is to add up to something around what's called Campus Oslo, a concentrated alternative in the Gaustad area. That's the part it's been most focused on. Is it the case that the Council of State is entirely awaiting the different options and has no preference?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1390	This is really going to be the answer to the previous question. What's quite arduous about these processes is that they're going to be transparent. I think we all agree on that. So it's like that there's always most spectacular of the different options that get the most attention. It is often where one builds the major hospitals – one solution. As in the case of Sørlanden Hospital — in an early phase, it is up to one hospital to receive attention, even though there are many alternatives in an early phase of the discussion. The same is true of Oslo University Hospital. What makes headlines and gets the whole sides of the papers is the one option that's the most spectacular, that's to gather everything in one place. That doesn't mean it's the most realistic option. I am very careful to stress that I expect all healthcare companies to have real processes. And if we are to be able to draw conclusions at a later stage, the different options actually need to be explored in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1395	Then I perceive the Council of State that neither owner, Health South-East, nor department has given any kind of signals about which of the solutions you want, and that it is that it comes to political treatment at some point. I would like to ask in what form the Council of State will present to the Stortinget what will eventually become the conclusion of the course to be followed. And I'll add a question. The experience we now have in creating such a large unit that will employ between 18 000 and 20 000 people, as is the case at Oslo University Hospital, raises serious questions as to whether the economies of scale fall away when it becomes too large. We have seen hospitals being built downwards in Europe, often in large countries, with 4,000–5,000 employees. It's rare we see the dimensions that we see in our neighbourhoods, as in Oslo University Hospital. So the question is whether to go on in that track.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1400	The representative of Bøhler is quite right in his presentation that in Europe there may not be a tendency to build a serious hospital of the kind that will be if one gathers all the activities of Oslo University Hospital in one place. It is the kind of experience that will be drawn into the work currently in progress. It also applies to other health establishments, which are within such planning phases. Knowledge is also collected from other countries. It is also such that I have not given any kind of signals about what is my preferred option. It is simply because I also have no opportunity to have any preferred alternative as long as there are no investigations that can give me the basis to believe it. There is only one message I have given: this government has no record that Aker hospital should not be used. On the contrary, I believe that Aker Hospital’s building mass should be used to solve Oslo University Hospital’s capacity challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1411	‘The Health Directorate has recently made its recommendations for diet and physical activity. Children must have at least one hour of physical activity every day and at least three times a week with a high intensity. The importance of increased intake of vegetables, fruit and berries is also clarified. Over 90 pst. children go to kindergarten, and most of the youngest schoolchildren are also in the School Leisure Scheme. Will the Council of State take responsibility for the organisation of day-care centres and schools so that the new recommendations of the Health Directorate can be implemented?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1418	The government will facilitate schools to ensure daily physical activity for students and stimulate a healthier diet. This is important for children's growth and health, but it is also important for a good learning environment. Skills and knowledge of physical activity and food are important in educational work, both in schools and in kindergartens. It is the nursery and school owners who are responsible for organising day-to-day childcare and school life, in order to promote the health and well-being of children and young people. This is enshrined in the regulations for environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools and their supervisor. The Public Health Act obliges municipalities to have an overview of the public health challenges also in the field of diet and physical activity and to take action to meet these challenges. Health authorities and education authorities are now cooperating to establish the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity in Bergen. The new centre should include: work to disseminate knowledge on how physical activity and nutrition affect health and learning. In the case of diet, the Health Directorate is reviewing the guidelines for meals at school, including the School Leisure Scheme. They have invited a broad cooperation on this. The Directorate shall also consider how the school fruit subscription scheme can be better organised to appeal to young people. We're following up the government platform in terms of physical activity. I think it's necessary to add a long-term race to ensure physical activity every day for all students, both in primary and secondary schools, precisely because physical activity is also important for learning. Health authorities are constantly spreading information about diet and physical activity and changing people's attitudes to what we eat, and how much we touch. These themes are well suited for cooperation between home, kindergarten and school. Among other things, health centre and school health services are important actors here. New guidelines and revised regulations for the service are being worked on. Many succeed in finding good solutions for better organisation of physical activity and meals. We need to learn from this. Together with the education and training authorities and other actors, we will contribute to increasing awareness of this work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1435	Thanks for the answer. The Health Directorate's recommendations have now been clarified in relation to previous ones. The health effect of diets is made clear, and for the first time it is also recommended to reduce the position of children, adolescents, adults and the elderly. The relationship between physical activity and health benefits is made very clear. The paradox is that the government has reduced the requirement for physical activity in the school in relation to what is stated in the public health report, because the government platform says that the school should facilitate increased physical activity, but it is not a goal of 60 minutes a day. The government has also cut out free fruit and green. So my question is how the government believes that what the government has done can really help us achieve what the health authorities recommend when it comes to physical activity and diet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1444	First, the government trusts that school owners — the municipalities — are engaged in creating good schools for the children. I also thought that the Central Party had great confidence in the local, elected level that is responsible for the schools today. They are now getting, among other things. annually updated public health profiles for its municipalities. It is laid down in the new Public Health Act that municipalities should take into account the public health perspective in all their work – not least in the planning work. Health supervision shall be subject to national supervision for the following year for the public health activities of municipalities. We may think that it is best to anchor the implementation and the achievement of objectives related to what is in national guidelines, where the school belongs, namely in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1451	The most important thing is to get children and young people to actually eat healthily and to make them more physically active. When the answer is that we must have confidence in school owners and local self-government, I believe that there is a discharge from a minister of health and care who is responsible not only for treatment but also for public health and prevention. The question is what kind of concrete action the Minister of Health will take, with the exception of referring to national centres and new plans and stuff. What kind of concrete action will the Minister of Health put in place, following the new references from the Directorate of Health?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1458	Some of the measures referred to by the representative are, of course, the concrete ones. If the representative lists what is the government's concrete action in this area and then says she wants more action, it is clear that it will be difficult to fill in the representative's list at any time. In terms of physical activity and food, I replied to this related to the school. But there is no doubt that the school will never be able to compensate if parents do not take responsibility for the children's activity and food when they are not at school. It doesn't help to have 60 minutes of physical activity at school if your parents drive the kids to school and leave them in the computer room for the rest of the evening. So it's important to be clear that this is family and parent responsibility. We need to get good information about this and work with different actors to improve the content of food in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1471	‘The 2014 budget does not provide funding to the Court of Justice, a voluntary organisation for those struggling with drug dependence in Oslo. The court has special cooperation with prisons and drug addicts. In the financial year 2014, this organisation may appear to have fallen out of the subsidy scheme by way of an incursion. Will the Council of States ensure that the Court of Justice receives the grant they have applied for, including in 2014?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1478	The Court of Justice Foundation is a user-driven foundation that offers prison visits and follow-up after a settlement to convicted offenders with drug problems. In the financial year 2013, the Court received a subsidy of DKK 300000 above Chapter 430, heading 70. No funds have been earmarked for the 2014 Court of Justice. Nor was it proposed earmarked funds for the foundation in the 2014 draft budget of the previous government. The funds for this year have been published publicly by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. From 2014 onwards, the management of the grant funds has been transferred to the Directorate of Criminal Welfare. Grants will therefore, as a general rule, be given upon application to the Directorate. Voluntary organisations play an important role in the implementation of penalties and in repatriation to society. The Fremskritsparte Government proposed to increase the appropriations and grant funds in its additionalproposal to the State budget by 10 million. kr. Of them, 2.5 million. action taken by non-governmental organisations in the field of criminal law. So we have significantly strengthened the voluntary organisations that cooperate with the criminal services on, among other things. return. The objective of the grant schemes is to support voluntary activities under the scope of criminal law. The grants shall include, inter alia: go to volunteer work on visiting services, motivational work, discussion groups, social action, cultural activities, assistance to practical tasks and to help completed zoned prisoners to a life outside the walls, without crime. Since the granting authority is now located with the Directorate of Criminal Welfare, I cannot address which organisations will receive grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1491	I thank you for the answer and can say that for the Workers' Party, the Court has been important from Britt Hildeng for the first time asked the question in the 2005 Question Time to the then Minister of Justice Dørum. They do a good job, and they have increased appropriations in recent years – from NOK 80000 in 2010 to NOK 300000. As I understand it, there was an incursion that led to them not being put into the budget line that still has denomination. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if he – in his judgements – will ensure that the Court will at least come under the legislation in the future, and that the Court will be back at the permanent post in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1498	As I just mentioned, we have done about the grant management in the ministry. It is the Directorate of Criminal Welfare that is now granting grants upon application. I think it's a neat and good way to deal with the problem of subsidies. When I was the head of the Control and Constitutional Committee in my time, we had a big case in which we went through the grant management in all departments. The dramatic weaknesses revealed in some departments, and major changes were made in the whole department portfolio regarding grant management. It was wise choices that were largely made by the previous government when a proposed grant policy. We have continued much of the new improved grant practice today, but we believe it is true that the professional authorities are the ones who primarily contribute to the award of these grants. I cannot answer what the previous government has been guilty of in its own draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1507	No, you can't, and I'm not asking you to. I'm just asking you to answer if you want the Court to enter the budget line that is still in the Ministry's portfolio as a subsidy to non-governmental organisations. As you also point out, the Court does a very good job. There has been cross-political support for the work they have done, and I know that progress party representatives have also been very committed to the work of the Court of Justice. I actually don't think there are any parties on Stortinget that don't think the work they do has great value. My question to you is whether when you now sit down with the financial year 2015, you will strike a blow for the Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1516	The President would like to remind you that both questions and requests will go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1519	I have a lot of good words to say about the Court of Justice and the job they're doing. They make a very fine effort for a lot of people, have a lot of meaning in many people's lives and make a difference. I think the representative is right that there is a cross-political consensus that the job done is good. At the same time, I must ask for respect for the fact that I do not deal with requests for grants from the Parliamentary Chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1530	This question, from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum to the Minister for Justice and Security, will be answered by the Minister for Agriculture and Food who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1533	First of all, I would like to say that I think it is remarkable that when the Minister of Justice and Defence is in the Chamber and I have asked the Minister of Justice and Preparedness a question of preparedness, it is not the Minister of Justice and Defence that answers. I think he should notice that. I think it's amazing, because this is a matter of preparedness, not of agricultural policy. The previous government had an overall focus on preparedness, where we not only looked at police resources and the kind of questions we also saw on food preparedness as a topic. If there's a disturbance around the food, there's a disturbance around everything. If the Minister of Defence believes that food preparedness has nothing to say for a country as a whole, it is incomprehensible. But I understand that's what the government thinks and that the presidency accepts it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1538	I think the representative now has to ask the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1541	I put this question to the wrong person: ‘Do the Council of State consider it the responsibility of public or private actors to provide adequate food preparedness in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1548	In this government, the Minister of Agriculture and Food is responsible for food preparedness. Social security and preparedness are among the most important tasks of the country. At the same time, cooperation between public authorities and private actors is an important part of modern preparedness. Food supply is a critical societal function. Supply readiness in the food sector is based on the fact that both national production and imports can be maintained well on the road even in crises. A complete blockage of supply lines over a period of time is not considered realistic under the applicable planning conditions. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has a coordinating role for social security and preparedness. Each department is responsible for social security and preparedness in its own sector. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries is responsible for coordinating emergency planning and crisis management in food supply. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries shall contribute to enabling business to deliver goods and services even in times of crisis. This is done by the Department, among others. through the Food Preparedness Act and through formal cooperation with food distributors through the Food Preparedness Council. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible for food security in parts of the value chain, from primary industry to industry. In its sector, the Ministry shall contribute to the maintenance of industry and trade in order to ensure supplies of agricultural products to the Norwegian market in the event of any crisis. This is done by the Department, among others. by facilitating continuous production, safeguarding the basis of production and contributing to the necessary addition of Norwegian production through imports. Close cooperation exists between the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on food security. The food industry is also an important part of the value chain, and in situations of disruption, for example: as a result of logistical or production problems, injury or disease, it is important to have a good network and cooperation between authorities and private actors. Furthermore, society depends on trade in goods, logistics and distribution being as undisturbed as possible in all situations. In addition, in order for the production, processing and distribution of food to be efficient, it is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of other social and infrastructure functions. The overall objective of food security is to contribute to the best possible coverage of domestically produced agricultural products in a crisis situation and also to the maintenance of the supply of necessary food through imports. Today’s food preparedness is based on an interaction between ministries, government agencies and private actors. It should still be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1571	The previous government adopted and reintroduced seed storage. After a thorough investigation, we decided to reintroduce food grain storage. There has been a great debate on food preparedness in the winter after Cermaq has announced that they want to sell Stavanger Havnesilo. It's okay to have different opinions about it, but what was amazing in that debate was that the Council of State Sylvi Listhaug says that if people are so concerned about it, they just get to buy it for themselves and clean it up for themselves, just as if it's not the responsibility of the state to have responsibility for food preparedness – as long as private actors are involved, it's their responsibility. I was very active in defense associations in my day. It's never been like that when a defense union is very active in defence issues, the council says, "Yes, if you're so very concerned about home protection, you're going to get home protection yourself. It's a very strange and unjealous attitude. My question is: does the Minister of Agriculture and Food agree with the following quote from the Chief of Defence Harald Sunde? ‘Deficient food can destabilise whole communities. The relatively low self-production of food makes us vulnerable if we are to be hit by a major nuclear accident or other serious crises."
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1583	Of course, it's important that we have a readiness to take on different scenarios. Under the previous government, food imports to Norway increased by 90pst, or 20bt. kr. So the degree of self-sufficiency went down under eight years of central party rule. We want to increase the production of food to meet the need for food security in Norway. What I said about corn silos was that I don't see it as a state responsibility to own a grain silo. I see it as a state responsibility to have a stockpile for cereals, if that's what we find necessary. We now have an investigation that is ongoing until 1 June, and we then come back to Stortinget with a conclusion on what the government wants there. What was the matter, was that the joint purchase owned the area around, they helped sell this area, the farmers were engaged, and my answer was that if one wanted to stop the sale, the joint purchase was the one that was closest in the order to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1594	The State Council's own specialised body, the State Agriculture Administration, carried out a thorough investigation into the stockpiling of cereals. It was assessed in the government's total preparedness work, it was recommended as an action we should go further with it, and we spent money on it. Preparedness is about drying to think the unmistakable and planning for the unmistakable. It was unmistakable two months ago that Russia was going into Ukraine – now it is conceivable. Things change very quickly. It is therefore amazing that a government council that says that she wants less investigation and more action does not focus on the investigation that comes from its own professional body, but launches an additional investigation by another research institute to perhaps come to a different conclusion. My question is: why will the Council of State focus on a research report from a research institute more than a technical report made by its own professional body?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1601	I think there were other questions that should also be highlighted than those that the SLF had been given on behalf of the previous government to look at, among others. the manner in which such storage may be carried out. Then I really think this debate is quite amazing, because in 2008 we had a food crisis in the world, where the prices of food went up sharply. At the time, the Central Party was in government. They did so continuously for eight years without, in that period, by a simple majority, finding the need to establish a stockpile of cereals. They first found out about the timing of the period when they were going to leave the board of directors to another government, and then added 5 million. kr, which is far from sufficient to cover the costs that will be borne by such a standby stock. I am concerned that we will have a thorough and good investigation in this matter. The work that was done by the previous government, I do not think was good enough. That's why we're asking for an assessment that looks at more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1614	Before I read the question, I have to repeat, because there may be a small chance that the word ‘aircraft accident’ may prove to be incorrect, because there are constantly new theories about the missing aircraft. So to the question: ‘Aeronautics in Asia focussed attention on passport checks at aerodromes. After the event, you could read that the Gardermoen police have no system to automatically intercept if someone uses a trusted passport. Does the Council of State consider this to be justified in terms of air safety and crime prevention?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1625	Since the President allowed the representative, Mr Vedum, to go outside of the Rules of Procedure on previous questions, I would like to draw the attention of Mr Vedum to the fact that this government is taking security and preparedness seriously. As a former Minister of Agriculture, he should be aware of the sectoral responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture and Food in his own field, so I am amazed at the strange tiara he started with. I think this was necessary to say, since the president allowed this completely unfounded, surprising and unintelligible attack. So to the good question from the representative Klinge. The Gardermoen police state that the press review in question does not give a correct picture of the situation. It is true that the police carrying out personal checks at border posts do not have access to technical means which automatically indicate that a passport has been falsified or otherwise does not belong to the traveller concerned, but there are clear rules and procedures on how border inspectors are to carry out document checks in order to detect irregularities in the travel documents. It is then important to distinguish between what is a Schengen country and what is a non-Schengen country. Regular personal checks are carried out on journeys to and from destinations outside the Schengen area. When travelling within the Schengen area, as is known, non-systematic control is carried out. Here it is the transport company that actually checks the traveler's identity documents. Travelers to and from non-Schengen destinations shall be thoroughly examined and properly checked, which means that passports and other travel documents are checked for authenticity and validity. Passports presented by nationals outside the Schengen area shall be checked, inter alia: against the Schengen information systems, containing messages on stolen passports. The documents are also inspected visually, in addition to the police asking follow-up questions to determine whether there are suspicions surrounding the travel document. Passports belonging to citizens of Schengen countries must also be examined to detect possible irregularities. In the event of a possible suspicion, the document shall be further examined by means of technical means or the relevant register check in order to reveal any falsification or invalidity. The passport examiner shall always pay attention to ensuring that the passenger is the correct holder of the passport. If there is a possible suspicion that this is not the case, he shall be taken into account for further investigation. The Gardermoen Police Station has documentary checks in the service to assist in such cases. Random sampling of travel documents from Schengen citizens is permitted, where the surveys are similar to those used for non-Schengen citizens. In this way, the Norwegian police implement a control regime that meets international border control requirements, and the requirements for aviation safety and crime prevention are central.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1638	I thank the Council of State for your answer. Traveling across borders without having to show passports is often made as a freedom, but freedom for whom, we might ask ourselves. Never before have more people been coercive from Norway, but still we see that people are coming back. These are often people who have committed crime in Norway before. With good systems where people could have effectively stopped at the border, we could save the police too much resource-requiring work, and I would like to stress that it helps very little to force many when we don't close the hole at the other end. Actually, I have two questions here. I would like to know if the Minister of Justice thinks it would have been useful to avoid the problem of people coming back, that we could have used passport controls more effectively – if he wanted to take the initiative to do so within the limits we have. I would also like to ask the Minister of Justice whether he is comfortable with the Schengen Agreement – as the agreement is in the case that we cannot have personal control systematically for people travelling within Schengen countries – prevents us from being able to prevent mobile organised and serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1649	It should certainly be possible to answer those two questions in a minute's time. The Schengen Agreement has many major advantages, but it also has a number of disadvantages. To compensate for some of these disadvantages, for example: In the context of the return question raised by the representative, Klinge, we have been concerned – that was also the concern of the previous government – that the level of penalties for breaking the entry ban after expulsion is substantially increased. We have now begun to get a judge based on the new law, which shows that those taken for illegal entry into Norway are being punished quite severely. There is one measure that compensates for one of the disadvantages of the Schengen area. But the advantage of being able to travel without passports within the Schengen area is very great for all, most of us, although it also presents us with some specific challenges. The introduction of passport controls within the Schengen area does not allow for the Schengen Agreement unless there are exceptional and specific action situations. We're probably not there today that we can claim it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1656	I was in London last year, as many other Norwegians are too often, and I didn't think it was a big offense to have to go forward and show it. It went quickly and was easy, so I don't think it would be a big problem if one had done it between Schengen countries. The ability of people to travel between countries with false identity and chairs passports is a major problem, both for their own security and for preventing crime. At aerodromes, one should be able to expect this to be captured, regardless of whether a traveler is inside or outside the Schengen area. The signature is that the Police Directorate has launched a pilot project on the Gardermoen with automatic passport control, where it is checked that the owner of the passport matches the person using it. Will the Minister of Justice ensure that this will be a permanent arrangement and that such systems will also be established at other airports in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1665	I agree with the representative, Mrs Klinge, that there is no violation of the passport when a person is going to enter a country outside Schengen, but what the representative uses is a fundamental criticism of the Schengen Agreement. It has been adopted in the Stortingen. This government is concerned that we have the Schengen Agreement, and what we are doing is therefore to stay within the framework of the Schengen Agreement. It also means that we can implement measures to improve the level of external border control, i.e. the control of those outside the Schengen area. We are not least contributing internationally to ensure, among other things, that: Southern European countries have a better and more effective system that can help solve some of the negative aspects that they also get from an agreement aimed at safeguarding the freedom of the people most. I do not think there is any room for implementing what the Klinge representative really wants, namely passport control for anyone who wants to enter Norway. Rather, we must implement the necessary measures to compensate for the disadvantages caused by the freedom of passports within Schengen, while at the same time benefiting others from this freedom of passports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1676	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘The Council of State states to the Nations on 1 November 2013 that ‘all approved forest highways shall be eligible for grants’. According to the Government Platform, non-interventional natural areas are to be abandoned as tools in land policy. [[INON]] INON and its practice will be challenging for the further construction of forest roads. Will the State Council amend the regulation on subsidies for food and environmental measures in forestry so that all applications for subsidies to forest roads are assessed in the allocation of funds?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1685	The amendment requested by the representative Arnstad is under way in the department and will be sent to the hearing in a short time, together with a consultation on new agricultural route regulations. This change will facilitate the creation of an appropriate forest road network as a basis for active and sustainable forestry. So the answer to the question from the representative Arnstad is – yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1692	I think that is very positive, and I assume that this means that the second paragraph of Section 5 on road construction grants, which today means that all permanent roads that are closer to wild-field areas than five kilometres, are simply pre-established, are removed from the regulations. If you take that term away from Section 5, it's very good and very important. The next question is, When will that happen? The application round for forest car paths is now over the summer. Will the regulation change be able to take effect so that all forest roads will be searchable for the round that takes place during the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1699	This is a regulatory change that I know it's been working with quite a long time in the ministry even before this new government joined. I hope we can get it in place before that, but I can't guarantee it. What I'm going to guarantee is that I'll do everything I can to get it out as quickly as possible. I am very happy that in this year's budget we have got a bet on forest roads that involves a 30 pst. increase from 2013, which will allow us to draw more of the resources that are standing and growing, that our ancestors have planted, and that can provide us with a basis for growth and jobs in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1706	I don't think the Council of State and I particularly disagree on the need to build forest roads as such, but I think it is very important that we try to implement this change as quickly as possible. In a state like Nord-Trøndelag, from which I come, there are 65 pst. of all the most mature forest in so-called wild-field areas, and there is therefore no risk of receiving support for forest-road measures if the regulation is not amended. I hope that the Council of State will speed up the work, so that the change will be ready for the application round for forest roads during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1711	After the government change, we've speeded up this work, and we're going to try to do this as quickly as possible and get this change out as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1720	‘The Veterinary Institute recently decided to close the establishment in Tromsø. They indicate that all terrestrial animal activities in the three northernmost countries are to be carried out by non-tertiary units. This means that all diagnostics and counselling in the ‘green sector’ [[Land animals]] What will the Council of State do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1727	I am concerned with safe food, good animal health and good animal welfare. The veterinary institute has an important role to play in achieving this. The veterinary institute is a key provider of knowledge to the authorities in the field of fish and terrestrial animal diseases and animal-to-human infectious diseases. The Veterinary Institute also contributes to the prevention and management of incidents caused by infectious and other harmful substances in feed and food. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has asked the Veterinary Institute in its letter of assignment that emphasis be placed on further development of the organisation. Work processes shall be more efficient and overall competence shall be developed and exploited even better. The Institute shall enhance the preparedness of biosecurity. The veterinary institute has its headquarters in Oslo and has regional laboratories in Sandnes, Bergen, Trondheim, Harstad and Tromsø. The head office shall be moved to Ås and co-located with Norway's environmental and life sciences universities and other agricultural and food research institutes. The Veterinary Institute has its own administration. The Management Board is responsible for making the necessary adaptations depending on societal developments and changing needs, taking into account the overall nature of tasks and measures to ensure a cost-effective and sustainable organisation. As part of this work, the tasks of the regional units could be further developed, redefined and restructured. The Veterinary Institute shall, in principle, present important matters to my department. I expect to have the Board's assessments and conclusions transmitted with the first. I will then take a thorough look at the matter and make my assessment. I want to inform the Storting about the matter in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1738	I want to thank you for your answer. In the letter of assignment sent by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to the Veterinary Institute, it is possible for the Ministry to ensure that all parts of the country have a preparedness in the case of a veterinarian. The decision that the Swedish Veterinary Institute's board has reached means that one actually has no preparedness, no diagnostics, in the north of the whole. This is at a time when climate change, increasing activity in the north, increasing interaction with Russia, which has different kinds of traditions when it comes to food security than what we have, and where we also see access to animal-human-infectious diseases, should ensure that one builds up the business in the north. My question to the Minister for Agriculture and Food is simply: will the Minister make use of the possibility in the letter of award to ensure that all parts of the country have a good preparedness for veterinary services?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1745	When this matter comes to my table, at least I will go into it carefully and look at what assessments have been made by the Veterinary Institute. I am concerned that we should have a strong and well-functioning veterinary institute across the country. Then, of course, I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way, so that the Stortinget can also decide on the matter. This is a process currently in progress. I cannot conclude until I have received the matter. I want to spend time going through it first.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1750	I am very pleased that the minister will go openly into that discussion. The total work of the Veterinary Institute was distributed. Among other things, one went through the various fields of activity, and the Tromsø environment came out very strongly. So taking out the land-based ‘green sector’ from the north will have very unfortunate consequences in the Nordic countries, Troms and Finnmarks and Svalbard, not least with the prospects we have for the continent. I would strongly encourage the Minister to go into this matter with that in mind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1755	I thank you for the recordings that the representative Fylkesnes has made, and I want to take them with me when I am now going to get involved in the matter and consider what is useful to do further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-19.ana.ud835e1770	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before a meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
