ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e39	Prime Minister and members of the government, Supreme Court, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow representatives! Today, it is exactly 200 years since the first extraordinary big thing passed the Constitution of 4 November 1814, and later the same day to choose Sweden's Carl XIII as Norwegian King. With this decision, the formal basis for the new independent Norway was laid. The work of building the new nation could begin. 200 years after Grand President Christie left the club in the Great Chamber of the Cathedral School, I, today's Grand President, can mark this day here in Stortinget, the political power center of a democratic welfare state in the world summit. I think on an occasion like this, we can meet each other's gazes, know the community and together with the Norwegian people allow us to be a little proud of what we've achieved. On international rankings, at the latest today, of the state of democracy, Norway is coming out very well. Norwegian politicians in general and the Storting especially enjoys great confidence in the population. We know that. The research and book project on the history of Stortinge states that the position of Stortinge in Norwegian democracy has been strengthened, rather than weakened, over the past 50 years. It's a pleasure, and it's a commitment. Behind each of them there are thousands of votes. That's the trust we're running. Therein lies our mandate. With the voters in the back, it's our job to lay the foundation for the widest possible democratic participation, where the people feel ownership of the system we're part of. This is how each of us has a democratic responsibility that extends far beyond the walls of this hall. We are together carriers of the Norwegian People's Government. It's not something we're going to take for granted. So we don't. Every harvest we meet for political work with the certainty that important tasks await. Over a normal year of work, Stortinget treats a significant number of cases. The Trade Union Committees of the Grand Duchy are doing a thorough job of preparing and organising all decisions. The international delegations make considerable efforts in the interparliamentary work. Earlier this year we have carried out major constitutional audits, and in these days we are going into the work of next year's government budget. It is my definite impression that the Storting in all this work is doing a solid and comprehensive effort. As elected representatives, we are increasingly challenged in a society that is becoming more and more complex, and in a world that is getting closer and closer. What was previously far away is suddenly so very close. This will not only change the framework for the participation of individuals in society, but also the conditions for our democracy as a whole. The limits of what we can decide on ourselves at national level, and what we need to adapt to the outside world, are being moved. We are bound by international conventions in several fields, such as: human rights, the environment and resource management, and we are committed to international cooperation in a number of other areas. The relationship with the EU is just one of many examples. The fact that Norwegian democracy faces challenges and needs to adapt is not new. That's why this year has been not only a celebration of the Constitution, but really just as much a celebration of a 200-year democratic development process. Now that the anniversary of the Constitution goes to the end, there's a good reason to notice how strongly the anniversary has engaged the whole country. There has been an adventurous uprising – from north to south and from east to west. Children and adults have participated in events in the small and large municipalities of the country, and the celebration has taken the different forms, from baking competitions, potato races and theatre setups to storytelling and democratic debates. Together we have achieved a lot this year. We have remembered that the Constitution is more than an ageing symbol and a collection of difficult paragraphs. The Constitution is a living document – legal, symbolic and political. It intervenes in the lives of its inhabitants. It is our most genuine bearer of national identity and continuity. Now, in the final phase of the Constitutional Jubilee, it must be allowed to sum up that the celebration has succeeded in removing the historical veil to which the Constitution has traditionally been embedded. The anniversary of the Constitution has been a celebration of freedom; freedom to co-determination and realization of the individual's possibilities and freedom from oppression and despotism. Freedom came after a series of dramatic events throughout the year 1814, and it came as a result of political intelligence. There is little doubt that King Christian Fredrik and Crown Prince Carl Johan showed great political leadership when they chose pragmatism and rhetoric over the confrontation and a pointless struggle for honor and legacy. Their willingness to compromise and the ability to find agreed solutions was not cowardice. On the other hand, it was political wisdom. Together, the two leaders gave a strong estimate of the long period of peace we have experienced between the Nordic countries. Of course, the anniversary has looked back. Much of it has been related to historical dates from 1814 — as well as today. During the course of the year that has passed, many have been engaged in raising different candidates to the honorary title ‘Helter of 1814’. Maybe one of the most important lessons is that it can't necessarily be designated as a whole. The history of 1814 shows how a number of different individuals appeared and took responsibility when it really happened. The freedom agency in 1814 was the result of many different people’s willingness to take responsibility, to raise their eyes, to aim at the main goals, but also to show restraint and moderation when the situation required it. Perhaps this lesson of cooperation and pragmatism is among the most valuable lessons to take with us as we soon leave the Constitutional Jubilee. In the service of the people, the solutions apply. In this Chamber, 169 representatives of the Norwegian People's Party are gathered. No one bears a greater responsibility for Norwegian democracy than we do. We have the people in our backs. It commits us, and it gives us strength. At the end of the anniversary year, I feel sure that we all agree on the desire to build on the best of what we have achieved: a Norway where participation and trust have built well-being and progress. For the anniversary is not the end of the story, but the beginning of the next chapter in the history of the Norwegian People's Party, and there we must all be participants. Thank you for your attention. Then I will leave the president's club and the further presiding of today's meeting to the first Vice President Marit Nybakk, because I'm going to open a seminar in the den in a short time. [[Applause from the Chamber]] That's probably also the management of safe hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e80	The representative of Torgeir Micaelsen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkevold, on leave from 4 November to 6 November to take part in the election of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE during the election in the United States of America by the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative, Mr Sverre Myrli, from 4 November to 6 November to take part in a trip with the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO to South Korea from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the sick leave of the representative, Mr Kristian Norheim, from 4 November to 6 November and until further notice. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Telemark County, Hanne Thürmer, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold from 4 November to 6 November, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Are Health 4 and 5 November For Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen 4 November and until further notice, and Dag Sele 4–6. November
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e136	Are Health, Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen and Dag Sele are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e144	The representative, Mr Arnstad, will make two motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e147	I would like to make proposals on the energy labelling of barley. On behalf of the big business representatives Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Jenny Klinge and myself, I would like to propose a change in the system of value added compensation for sports facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e154	The representative, Jenny Klinge, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e157	On behalf of the big-time representatives Heidi Greni, Gerd Eli Berge and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on the establishment of a surveillance camera at all runable Norwegian border crossings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e162	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before considering the remaining issues on the current map, the President will propose that case No. 3 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e294	The size would then go back to case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e310	Several prospective parents have produced reports of experienced abortion when serious illness is revealed in the child they carry. It is reported that health professionals who manufacture it as a matter of course should interrupt pregnancy because the expected child has a serious illness or diagnosis. Several suggest that the doctor has provided statistics and dark predictions and offered to book an hour of abortion before the parents themselves have expressed anything about what they want to do. Last Saturday, 1 November, a woman in a post in Dagbladet reported: ‘At the hospital we were presented for mental and physical deviations our child would be born with. He [the doctor] presented it as some variation between the people with Down syndrome and that he could not say what degree of Downs our child would get, but he made it clear that it was only the freshest we could see in the media. I got the feeling of having no choice but abortion as the researcher presented the choice to us." We're talking about a very demanding, close and personal dilemma, and we know that there are several stories like this woman's story in the newspaper. As professionals, the doctor and other health professionals have great authority and great credibility in meeting the individual woman and her family. A doctor’s provision of information and further recommendation will be too burdensome in a demanding choice situation, where the choice can be between taking an abortion and keeping the child. It is a great sorrow for emerging parents to be told that the child they are waiting for has a serious illness. In such situations, the task of the doctor will be to provide good information, support and assistance as necessary. If pregnancy causes serious difficulties for a woman, it shall be provided with information and guidance on the assistance that society can offer it, cf. Article 2 of the Abortion Act. The woman has a right to advice in order to make the final choice herself, says the law. A timely question will be whether these women feel that they have a real choice. The pregnant woman has the right to good information, guidance and follow-up — both to ensure that no one experiences abortion, and to ensure a support device around permanent parents who choose to provide a child with a serious illness or diagnosis. It is a great burden for emerging parents to deal with an unimaginable number of instances when awaiting a disabled child. Therefore, the Christian People's Party suggests that the coordinator we want to be in the municipalities after the child is born may already be allowed to assist the family in pregnancy. This will relieve the individual woman and at the same time prepare auxiliaries in the municipality to offer and adapt services from birth onwards. Several women have told us over the last few years that life in the stomach was marked as ‘incompatible with life’, but that they chose to carry the child forward despite the dark predictions and recommendations of the doctor. There are now lively, glorious examples challenging the gloomy medical conclusion. One of them is little Ole, and he's today over two years. Ole has trisomi 18, a diagnosis that doctors call incompatible with life. In practice, this means that there is no maximum limit for the granting of abortion. With this label on the child, there is in practice an opening of abortion until birth. Ole's mother, Anna Solberg, tells me that the doctor never said directly to her that she had to take abortion, but that everything he provided made her know herself as a coward who had trouble selecting away the child. Solberg was unable to carry out the abortion. Today, little Ole is over two years old and lives a good life with his parents and siblings. Following the doctor’s strong recommendation to take abortion because the foetus would not be viable would have been a fatal decision as he currently works well and has good quality of life. My question is, how does the government deal with permanent parents having to defend that they will bring forth a sick child? A few weeks ago, several of us attended a seminar here at Stortinget where the theme was just trisomy 13 and 18 and the fact that these children are traditionally given nothing but relief treatment in Norwegian hospitals. The conditions are serious, but not absolutely lethal, as many medical authorities have claimed before – and now claim. ‘We should change the use of words, and review even more attitudes. We have to assume that we have been wrong about the prognosis of these children, they live longer than we thought before," said child nurse Ole Didrik Saugstad during this seminar. So even though attitudes are changing, Saugstad believes that the health care system should not treat trisomi children such as Down's syndrome children 40 years ago. A diagnosis is not a diagnosis, because children are different, and children must be treated as children, regardless of diagnosis. Children have different assumptions, regardless of diagnosis. It is very important and necessary to clarify the upper absolute limit of lateaways. Fortunately, the government submitted an amendment that says we have a limit at 21 weeks and 6 days. Health professionals in several hospitals notified in 2011–2012 that abortions occurred so late in pregnancy that there could be a breach of Norwegian law. It is essential that viable foetuses are now determined not to have to be aborted. Several of the cases reported to the health services were psychosocial, but conditions that Down’s syndrome also occurred as an abortion. Medical and technological developments help us to save more and more prematures and help more and more people with different diagnostics. It's not just about how early we can save a child, it's also about diseases that were previously defined as incompatible with life, but as it's now an opportunity to save. I finally wish to repeat some words from an article by Marte Goksøir and her mother in the Morning Magazine last week: "When I asked my mother how she felt when I was born, she said, "You were a lovely little child. It wasn't you who was the problem. The painful thing was that I had to meet my own prejudices. At the same time, I knew that these prejudices also permeated our society. How would this go?» The great burden for parents is that their child can be viewed as a problem that is not really room for in our society. [[...]] It may be heavy!’ We cannot construct quality of life based on subjective experiences or subject books. Each person has the right to have ownership of what a good life implies for himself. How will the government ensure good guidance and follow-up when someone is expecting a sick child, and what will the government do to ensure that women carrying viable children are not told that the child’s condition is incompatible with life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e355	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising an important discussion and for the work done here in the Storting to discuss these questions, among others. in the seminar to which it is referred. When ultrasound and other examinations in pregnancy reveal serious disease in the foetus, the pregnant woman and her partner shall have detailed information. They need to know what the diagnosis involves, both in terms of survival, treatment options, and quality of life for the child if it is to survive. I have the impression that the hospitals are putting great emphasis on providing thorough information, among other things. because the law provides for the possibility to interrupt pregnancy when a serious disease has been detected in the foetus. When some parents say that in such a context they have experienced an abortion, the hospitals have to make sure that this does not happen again. Anyone who chooses to provide the child shall meet with care and respect, regardless of the child’s predictions. Health professionals need to be humble in order for patients to assess medical conditions into a larger family and social framework. It is also important to note that in a situation where a serious disease is detected in a foetus, the woman and her partner will experience a high level of mental stress. Communication in such a situation is demanding, and it is often necessary to repeat the information. Health professionals must be responsive to signals from the pregnant woman and her partner. I have asked health regions to explain how they ensure good guidance and follow-up of these women. Hospitals indicate that this is to be taken seriously. They focus on finding a solution in collaboration with the woman and her partner and providing support for the choice they make. National treatment service for advanced invasive foetal medicine at St. Olavs Hospital receives referrals from all over the country and has annual care for about 220 pregnant women with developmental abnormalities. Doctors, midwives and long-experienced socionomists provide information and support pregnant women in such a situation. The treatment service states that multidisciplinary cooperation provides a good basis for pregnant women carrying viable children not to be wrongly informed that the child’s condition is incompatible with life. It is also important for parents to be informed about support measures after birth. The National Center for Foetal Medicine at St. Olav’s Hospital refers to their close cooperation with Frambu, which is part of the National Rare Diagnosis Competence Service. Closer cooperation with Förbu is also under development. Internationally, Norwegian maternity care, maternity care and neonatal medicine have a high standard. Norway has one of the world’s lowest numbers of foetal deaths late in pregnancy and death early in the neonatal period. Caring for the pregnant woman and her partner after finding a serious illness or abnormality in the foetus is an important and integral part of this care. Assessing whether a fetus is viable, or whether the fetus has a condition that is incompatible with life, can be difficult. At the same time, the evaluation will normally have a significant impact on whether the woman will seek abortion and be absolutely essential for whether or not an application is granted. The abortion law places an absolute limit on the granting of abortion ‘when there is reason to believe that the foetus is viable’. In the preparatory work, Ot.prp. No 53 for 1977-1978, page 10, this time is described as ‘as the possibility that the foetus may be viable outside the womb may be present’. The Ministry has, as you know, proposed clarification of the applicable law in the abortion regulation. The proposal specifies that: ‘If there are no particular conditions of the foetus that warrant otherwise, a foetus shall be presumed to be viable after the 22nd week of pregnancy: [[21 weeks + 6 days]] When assessing viability, the issue is primarily whether it is possible for the foetus to survive by intensive treatment at the time of the abortion. In such cases, inter alia: the length of pregnancy and any harm to the foetus are relevant. Although a foetus is to be assumed to be viable after the 22nd week of pregnancy, there may be particular conditions at the foetus that warrant otherwise. For example, some fetuses may have diseases or abnormalities that indicate that the time of viability will occur at a later stage of pregnancy. Other fetuses could be so damaged that survival must be considered to be nearly non-existent, regardless of the time of redemption – in other words, that the fetus has a condition incompatible with life. As you know, there is no abortion limit when the foetus has a condition that is incompatible with life. It is therefore important, both for the sake of the woman and for the legal protection of the foetus, that there is no doubt as to what is necessary for a foetus to be considered to have a condition incompatible with life. The term ‘incompatible with life’ is not given either in the law of abortion or in the law of abortion, but in the notes on the code of abortion and in the circular. In circulars I-40/2001, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In some cases, the foetus will have a condition incompatible with life outside the uterus regardless of the time of redemption. The condition in question could be compatible with survival in minutes, hours, days or a few weeks. However, the state may be ‘incompatible with life’ here if experience clearly indicates that the survival possibilities are nearly non-existent beyond such a period of time.’; On 18 June of this year, the Ministry of Health asked the Directorate of Health to investigate abortion practices, based on information from the Medical Birth Register on foetuses that were aborted after the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy in 2012. The Ministry also asked for an evaluation of abortion practice for foetuses diagnosed with trisomi 13 and trisomi 18. Although most fetuses with these diagnoses die in foetal life – 80–90 pst. – or in the first days after birth, there are also those who can live for a limited number of years. The Ministry therefore asked in particular for an assessment of the viability of such foetuses. The Health Directorate has stated in its opinion of 1 November 2014 that, in practice, it may be difficult to define which conditions are incompatible with life, in addition to the clear cases where, for example: The fetus lacks a brain. There are also wide variations among foetuses that have the same type of disease or anomalies. In the case of trisomy 13 and trisomy 18, the directorate stated, among other things: that this is: ‘Examples of disease conditions that have been historically referred to as ‘incompatible with life’.’ At the same time, the directorate confirmed that ‘Today it may appear to be a slightly greater possibility of survival for some of those who are born alive with this condition’. The Directorate further stated that: ‘the fact that a few extremely few diagnoses with Trisomi 13 and Trisomi 18 survive for longer than hours, days or weeks does not mean that one cannot without reservation consider the diagnosis to be incompatible with life alone’. At the same time, the Health Directorate stressed that foetuses with such diagnosis “are not viable at the same time” in pregnancy as healthy foetuses. The directorate has thus established that the diagnosis of trisomy 13 and trisomy 18 is not alone incompatible with life. However, viability may occur later for foetuses with such conditions. Therefore, abortion may be permitted at a later date than 22 weeks for such foetuses. The Directorate for Health has assessed the data from the Medical birth register on foetuses that were aborted after the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy in 2012 and concludes that the relevant abortions have been granted in accordance with the applicable law. The information has been assessed against journals and autopsy reports. Reference is made to the fact that the foetuses were not considered viable at the time of the abortion, due to the combination of severe diagnosis and complex deviations. The majority of the fetuses had conditions that were clearly incompatible with life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e415	What is contained in the concept of ‘incompatibility with life’ is really the big question. Treatment is modified on the basis of a change in medical knowledge. Nevertheless, we have many stories about tired parents fighting the system to be heard and understood when one chooses to present a child with special challenges. It is important that health professionals have good guidance procedures and provide good information and support in contact with pregnant women who are awaiting a seriously ill child or who have a condition requiring additional follow-up and resources. It is a great burden for emerging parents to deal with many different instances in order to obtain the necessary information and tailor-made assistance. The Christian People's Party believes that the individual must be put before cumbersome systems. An important measure will be that as early as possible, as I also said in my first post, we come in with the help of those who are waiting for a disabled child, and help the individual woman and family to find out about the system. The Christian People's Party has previously worked to establish a permanent coordinator in the municipalities to help and support those who have a child with disabilities, i.e. dependants, in response to the system. The offer of the coordinator is in place in many municipalities. We now see the need to get in earlier. The Christian People's Party suggests that the pregnant woman be offered a coordinator already during pregnancy to assist and strengthen the family waiting for children. We believe that the municipalities will then have a better basis for helping the family when it comes home, so that the help is ready to meet the family. Does the government see the importance of putting in place a reinforced support device through a coordinator for those awaiting a seriously ill child, so that they can get in touch with the municipality where they will live from the start?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e424	The Directorate-General for Health is legally responsible for setting national guidelines on healthcare. On behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Directorate of Health is now working on a technical guideline on the relief of children, regardless of diagnosis. It is planned to be completed in 2015, and the assignment was given under the previous government. I have noticed that the parent group has responded to the concept, and I believe that the Health Directorate, in the light of the consultation in Stortinget, is looking at the concept when they are about to complete the guidelines. The original mandate does not cover cases where the woman chooses to complete a pregnancy where serious conditions have been detected in the child that may provide limited life prospects at birth, but the Health Directorate was asked in January 2012 to include this in the mandate. I think the proposal that the Christian People's Party is dealing with in the debate is an interesting one. It is in line with the thinking that underlies, among other things, also in the interaction reform and the way in which we want the specialist health service and the community health service to cooperate, so it is a proposal that we will take with us in the further work, both with the guidelines and also in general with the organisation of the interaction between the specialist health service and the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e433	I would also like to thank the representative, Olaug Bollestad, for addressing such a demanding issue. It is demanding both for those directly affected, for health professionals and not least for the large community, because we see that foetal water diagnostics provide us with ever better knowledge of the disease and development of the foetus. At the same time, we have medical progress. Parents face a fundamental choice — often between two bottoms — whether they will choose to end pregnancy or whether they will bring forward a child who may have to be subjected to a lot of painful treatment and suffering. The new possibilities, the choices, from which medicine creates, cannot escape the individual. You have to look at the prediction for survival, the future quality of life for the child, the extent to which you have to expose your child to painful treatment – as I mentioned – and the future quality of life for yourself and the rest of the family. On the issue of abortion on this basis – serious illness or serious diagnosis – I would say that it is absolutely essential that those in such a situation do not feel any pressure about abortion, because you are incredibly vulnerable when you have this message. You know that you have a very short time to make a very decisive decision for the future – for the child you're wearing, and for the rest of the family. At the same time, there is another side to this election that should perhaps also be made clearer in this debate. That's what I was into, the pressure you're under. It is felt as sub-communicated in the media that you may choose not to bear a child because you do not want to expose the child to the suffering and treatment you are convinced that the child must pass through. It is therefore essential that relatives and patients have the right to receive as much objective information as possible about their condition and possibilities. You have to have a say in such choices. It's the individual person who has to make the choice, it's the parents who are the closest to taking responsibility for the election. It is therefore essential to have guides who are able to make good communication, so that parents experience making the right choice in their situation. We all know that people are very different. Getting the good communication with everyone from the unique background you have is exceptionally demanding. Therefore, you may need to focus even more on the training of health professionals with regard to the good communication and dialogue you need in the future. I am a little uncertain when the Council of State says that he has communicated with the specialist health service and asked what follow-up procedures they have. I believe that in such a question – when we know how difficult it is to bear the grief and to have to make the decision in such a short time, no matter what choice you make – it is absolutely essential that the specialist health service and the community health service have procedures for follow-up. One question for the Minister of Health is whether one should not be much more proactive in terms of the challenges and experiences we get feedback about when we are visiting the specialist healthcare service. The working party also thinks it is a very good suggestion Olaug Bollestad comes with, about a coordinator in the municipality who comes in early to make it easier when you choose to carry a child – and for the follow-up of those who choose not to carry a child, because the sorrow is in any case there. We've been told that a lot of different methods are used to calculate the duration of pregnancy. Variations between two and five days may be crucial for the possibility of ending a pregnancy, so a question to the Minister for Health is whether to initiate one standard method to be used, so that women receive equivalent health services around the whole country. In the case of Senabaways and the 22nd week limit, we get this for a new treatment in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e456	The representative, Bollestad, is addressing a very difficult and painful topic. It is painful because there is a very difficult and stressful situation for parents who are told that the child to be carried is seriously ill, and perhaps so sick that it is not compatible with life. Bollestad asks how the government will ensure good guidance and follow-up when expecting a sick child, a child you may not be able to expect to live longer than one or two years after birth. How can parents be prevented from being pressured into abortion, and how can they be involved in supporting the choice made by their parents? It is one of the issues at stake in this debate. I want to refer to the newspaper The Day, which October 15 told me about Felicia, a girl in one year and seven months. Felicia got a tough start to life. She has trisomy 18, a serious chromosome defect, which led to breathing problems after birth and a heart defect that threatened to kill her. The parents were told about the diagnosis in week 31 of pregnancy, and Mother said: "I was shocked, simply. At first we both thought about having an abortion, because the doctor said it was allowed. [[...]] History tells of how difficult a good dialogue can be between parents and doctors or midwives, but it also tells of the parents' doubt, hope and not least enormous strength. I am very pleased that the minister informs me that this is taken seriously in the hospitals, and that emphasis is placed on finding a solution in collaboration with the woman and her partner, and not least that they are supported in the choice they make. When ultrasound and other examinations in pregnancy reveal serious disease in the foetus, parents shall have detailed information. They need to know what the diagnosis involves, even in terms of survival, treatment options, and the quality of life of the child if it is to survive. But it is a piece of guidance and intentions on good dialogue to practice in dealing with patients. That's where the moments of truth are. I therefore think it was good to hear that Professor of Pediatrics at Oslo University Hospital, Ola Didrik Saugstad, says that we must stop operating with all the diagnostic lists and rather focus on the individual child and the child's needs. At a seminar at the Stortinget in the direction of health policymakers this fall, he placed great emphasis on individual treatment and follow-up of children and parents. He also stressed that the children should have the same treatment as other children. I think it's incredibly important that these parents know. The situation must determine the type of treatment given. He also said that he believes that many of his colleagues have to work with their own opinions, as he had done himself. Thus, the person providing guidance has a great responsibility because the law provides an opportunity to interrupt pregnancy when serious defects have been detected in the foetus. So when some parents say that they have experienced abortion, the hospital has to make sure that this does not happen again. There is no abortion limit for a condition incompatible with life. It is therefore important, both for the sake of the woman and for the legal protection of the foetus, that there should be no doubt that a foetus is considered to have a condition incompatible with life. It is important that parents receive information about support measures after birth, and not least that municipalities provide it. It is good to hear the Minister tell you that the Health Directorate has assessed the information from the Medical birth register on foetuses that were aborted after the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy and concludes that the abortions in question have been approved in accordance with the law in force. It removes the uncertainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e483	Let me first thank the representative of Bollestad for having an important debate. And let me also first of all make it clear that no parent should have to experience being pressured into taking an abortion. The decision to take abortion or not is a personal and independent choice, where parents themselves must feel what they want for their and their children's lives. They must meet with respect and care no matter what choice they make. When a person becomes pregnant and carries a seriously ill child, the woman and her companion shall receive all the information they will need to make informed choices: knowledge of the diagnosis, possibilities for treatment, the care tasks that await their parents, and not least the life the child is expected to live with the diagnosis. It is relevant to get knowledge of how children with diagnosis live in our society today. Uncertainty is the worst – lack of information creates uncertainty for parents. Therefore, there is a clear flaw in our health system when parents do not feel that they need the information they need. There are several parents who are not only concerned about the disease and treatment itself, but also whether the child will be able to live a good life. Would we be able to give the child the help that is needed? Many people need answers about how parents can cope with a daily upheaval, as many parents get a seriously ill child. In this context, parents also need information on the arrangements available for children with serious illness, the tools available and the possibilities for public assistance. It is essential that parents meet with great openness. When future parents lack information, it may mean that they make a decision they are not comfortable with, and that is regrettable. I am therefore pleased that the Minister of Health has asked regional health companies to explain how they ensure good treatment and follow-up of these parents. Some time ago, together with several other parties here at Stortinget, the Progress Party organized a seminar on trisomi. Several parents attended the seminar and shared their experiences with the politicians. Several stated that they did not get enough information from the hospital when they were expecting the child. They experienced wide variation between hospitals in the information provided about the diagnosis. Several parents also showed different experiences of the treatment options they are given to their children. These variations aren't lucky. I respect that it may be difficult to assess whether a child is viable, or whether the diagnosis will be incompatible with life. But research is progressing. We have developed better treatment methods, and today we see that more children with trisomy 13 and 18 live good lives for many years. I do not want the parents to worry about what follow-up they get from the hospital. They shall receive information, follow-up and care from health professionals, which gives a nuanced picture of expecting a seriously ill child. Because what's right for one isn't necessarily right for another, and it has to be humiliated by the hospitals. I want prospective parents to have room in the short time they have the opportunity to make such a big and powerful decision, to think through the emotional aspects of this. They shall not spend this time striving for information from health professionals. Parents shall be assured that the child they give life will have the dignity that all children deserve and that the child will receive the help and treatment needed to live as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e506	It is an important question raised by the representative of Bollestad – important for many in a difficult choice situation. I think it's natural to ask questions about whether the guidance that all abortion seekers get would have been better if it was even better quality assured. I think we've all heard a lot of examples of pregnant women who don't get the guidance they need, and who are even met with a presumptuous expectation that they will seek abortion, and then they have to argue to keep their child. As you know, the Council of State has shown great eagerness both to make regulatory adjustments and to supervise other matters of abortion referral, so I think it would be natural for me to express the hope of seeing the same level of urgency after supervising and implementing measures to ensure good guidance for all pregnant women, for all those seeking abortion. These are, of course, measures that will be particularly important for those facing a difficult choice because they have been informed about a sick child. The question is whether the guidance for those seeking abortion who are in particularly difficult choices would be even better if we had made a quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e515	Thank you to the representative of Bollestad for making an important interpellation. Additional questions will be asked in the interaction text. The only thing is how the government will ensure good guidance and follow-up when someone expects a sick child, and what the government will do to ensure that women who ask viable children are not told that the child's condition is incompatible with life. Both questions are comprehensive, and they're not easy to answer, because it has to do with the organisation of our entire healthcare system. The background for the interpellation is that there have been several stories in the media in which women have stood up and told them that they have experienced abortion. In fact, it's quite unlikely that one has experienced abortion in Norway because one wants to present a child with major crimes. I see that some medical doctors and hospitals in the media have answered – when this has come up – that it is about communication challenges and not about behavior. Of course, it's about communication challenges, because this is challenging to communicate about – it all understands – and it has to be done very thoroughly, repeated times, etc. But I don't think the answer is that simple. I think it's also about postures in the health care system. Communication may be easier to do with, but behavior is harder to change. That is why it is important that we have a debate on this. Is it true that we've been a society where we're less grumbling at women who do well to present children with crimes? Doctors shall never resort to abortion. They shall provide information. Women should not be under pressure to commit abortion. There's self-determined abortion in Norway. What these women deal with, gives cause for great anxiety, and it's very thought-provoking. There have been many good actions in progress in both the Department and Health Directorates, such as new guidelines, etc. It's positive, and I feel that there's agreement here about what we want, and what we think is not acceptable. What matters to me is that when these children are born, they have the right to an individual assessment of the need for health care in the same way as any other child. We have to stop putting children in a diagnostic group and determine treatment after that. We like to have professional guidelines, but they can never replace the right to an individual assessment – no matter what disease you have. So to the proposal that was raised by the representative of Bollestad in the debate here, about a coordinator in the municipality. When we talk to parents, the challenge is also their lack of provision in the municipality when you're going to start living there. A coordinator is a positive proposal, but I have a question, for the Health and Welfare Act was revised and has been working since 2012. Paragraphs 7–2 establish the right to coordinator: ‘For patients and users in need of long-term and coordinated services under the law, the municipality shall provide the coordinator. The coordinator shall provide the necessary follow-up of the individual patient or user, as well as ensure coordination of service provision and progress in the work on an individual level.’;» I thought that the health and care laws we have applied regardless of age. Isn't it true that these patients today, according to the laws, are entitled to a coordinator, and that this is not a new proposal, but is something we really just have to ensure that they get their rights implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e535	Thank you for a difficult but good debate. Thank you for agreeing on a coordinator. We have the law, as the representative Toppe says, but the Christian People's Party's proposal is to drag that coordinator in before birth, so that we can prepare the municipality, but the most prepared mother and father to have this child, and that they should not go through a hundred doors to get the help they have right to. What's important for me and the Christian People's Party to say is that all kids are different when they're born. Some have special challenges that we know about because we've seen them on ultrasound, others get the challenges during birth, and some have challenges that we haven't seen, and that are a surprise to the parents when the child is born. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that all of these are given the same opportunities and the same help when they are born, and it has certainly been one of the greatest challenges. In the meetings we had during a seminar here in the house, parents told stories about how they had to fight to get treatment after birth because it was determined in advance that that diagnosis got help, it didn't get it – it should have, it shouldn't have. And then probably the strongest impression I have from this house is that one of the pediatricians said, "I'm sorry about these parents: you have to excuse us that we've been so busy with diagnosis that we've forgotten to look at the people's premise. Today, we have young people who are both 14 and 15 years old and who live with the diagnosis that is fundamentally incompatible with life. That's why this debate is so important, because we need to get a health care service where we look at the individual's opportunities and then give help. Then it could be times where you have to say that now we can't do any more, but we'll help you and follow you until this is over and help you afterwards. At the same time, we have to give the possibilities to those who have different assumptions. For a youth is not a young person with a diagnosis, but it is a young person who has a diagnosis and who we are set to help. I'm glad of the consensus, that it looks like we can get a majority to get a coordinator in early, already in pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e551	I would also like to thank you for the debate. As Minister of Health and Health, I have been concerned that when these kinds of issues arise, there are questions that should not be pushed under the carpet, but that should be raised and highlighted. This is also the reason why when one of the changes to the regulation saw that there could be cases in which late births had been carried out that could appear to have been done on the wrong basis, there was something – in full transparency – that set the directorate in motion to assess. Transparency is also an important topic in this context. If we are to give the parents who are in this situation – but also the health professionals – the security of having a good discussion, a good conversation about this, it also requires that we talk about it openly in society. It also provides the basis for more and better reflection. Of course, it's about communication, but I also fully agree that in this communication – where one is within this type of very demanding choice, where not only medical diagnosis is crucial, but where one also focuses on one's own values, family relationships and other questions – it's always a challenge not to let what had been one's own choice affect the information one gives to those who are actually in the situation that they are going to make the choice. It is important that health professionals reflect on this. With regard to the specific issue, the Health Directorate’s answer shows that there must always be individual assessments. These are individual assessments based on the knowledge that healthcare professionals have at that time. Then, unfortunately, this is not a time when we can always give an answer with two lines below. It'll always be uncertain, and we also have to accept that. With regard to some of the specific questions raised in the debate: Yes, the directorate is now working – as I said – with routines. The supervisor is in the process of being prepared. The Directorate has also established a clear recommendation on the method of determining the duration of pregnancy. Work on the regulation relating to 22 weeks has soon been completed, and this will then be laid down in a regulation and thus not promoted by Stortinget. I perceived the Christian People's Party's proposal very clearly. There's a right to coordinator today. The proposal from the Christian People's Party is about whether that coordinator should also be connected at an earlier time. We are thus within the idea of interaction that I believe is a good reason to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-04.ana.ud1655e564	Case No. So 2 is done. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
