ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e65	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e68	On behalf of Per Olaf Lundteigen, Ivar Odnes, Geir Pollestad and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal that the hospital structure and change of essential tasks in hospitals should be decided by the Stortinget in a national health and hospital plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e73	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e87	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e101	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e115	In parallel with the development of the provision of health to the population, we have a responsibility to ensure that the law is consistent with developments. There is a need to harmonise the new law on municipal health and care services, which has worked since 2012, and the Patient Injury Act. With previous changes to the law, it was agreed that the Patient Damage Act extended the scope to include damage caused to municipal health and care services, while in the past it applied only to specialist health services. It has been unclear whether it should also apply to institutions previously regulated by the Social Services Act, i.e.: homes for children, drug establishments and old-age homes. During the consultation, it became clear that the provision of services in institutions previously regulated by the Social Services Act has now had a greater impact on health services than in the past, and that it is therefore important that children’s homes, drug institutions and old-age homes are also covered by the Patient Injury Act in order to provide greater protection in the event of injury to patients. The Committee recommends that the Patient Injury Act provide for the King to decide in regulation which institutions under the municipal health and care services are to be covered by the Patient Injury Act. The Committee has also taken note of the consultation input from the Norwegian Association for the Development of Disabled, which indicates that the needs of children’s and relief homes are often complex and demanding, and that it is therefore difficult to distinguish between those who have provided health care with regard to the substitution rules. The Committee considers that the existing legislation on the inclusion of injury to patients caused by healthcare professionals or others acting on behalf of healthcare professionals should be maintained. However, the Committee will follow developments to see if there is a need for change. We recognise that it may be challenging to distinguish between health care and other help for residents living in these institutions, but it is a major step to extend responsibility to non-health professionals. We therefore need more experience to see if today’s legislation prevents us from following the intent of the Patient Damage Act. The Committee is also concerned that the regulations become as user-friendly as possible, with a clear language, and that the institutions covered by the Patient Injury Act are explicitly mentioned in the regulation. It makes it easier for the patient, relatives and everyone, and the Committee believes that it will strengthen legal certainty. A unanimous committee is behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e134	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e148	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e155	In 2010, 450-billion-billion-dollar medicines were sold. kr over the Internet. Studies show that around 60 pst. Of these were false. According to the WHO, several international criminal gangs are betting on copied drugs rather than drugs. A lot of people go to medicine instead of going to the doctor. The manufacturer of Viagra states that there are more than 350,000 websites selling fake copies of this drug alone. It is an impossible task to check all mail items coming to Norway, but a conservative estimate says that more than ten million tablets are imported annually in private. Many thousands of such shipments cross the border every day, and those who are stopped are largely returned without notification. Returned goods are usually sent back to Norway again and again, until the goods cross the border. Now we're opening for the destruction of these drugs without a report. It facilitates the workload of both police and customs and allows more of the customs resources to be used for control over paperwork. No hearing body has delivered an opinion against the proposal. In recent years, such private imports of medicinal products have increased to such an extent that it is considered a threat to public health. To date, there have been no effective sources of seizure and destruction. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has finally promoted the bill we are now dealing with. The proposal is based on new knowledge on the import of medicinal products by people. A unanimous committee endorses the proposal for an amendment to this Act. Some patients do not accept a no from the doctor and even buy the medicines they think they need on the Internet. In the case of online purchases of medicinal products, the user risks that the product does not work, that it is unclean, that it causes undesirable side effects, and in addition, product insurance does not apply to that type of medicinal product. This amendment will result in more effective customs control and less bureaucracy, and in addition, it will be easier to prevent illegal pharmaceutical copies from being imported and also entering the legal supply chain. This case shows us that many Nordics want to trade medicines on the Internet. In addition, we see that foreign food supplements classified as medicines in Norway are purchased directly from countries where they are freely traded. The majority of the Committee therefore called for an assessment of the practice of which food supplements are classified as medicinal products. It is a point to reconcile today's practices, but there is not necessarily a liberalisation in this. That being said, there are examples of Norwegian practice being significantly stricter than in comparable countries, as at least a citizen for a new assessment. The majority of the Committee has found that the Internet has come to be, and, at the same time, that Internet commerce is growing. Persons wishing to purchase medicines via the Internet are referred to foreign websites of varying quality. In many cases, they commit a criminal act on the private imports of prescription drugs. We realize that Internet pharmacy will come anyway, also in Norway. The time is ripe for this now. The majority of the Committee therefore calls on the government to facilitate the establishment of net pharmacy in Norway, with, of course, the same requirements for the activities as other Norwegian pharmacies. If we don't open up for this now, I'm afraid we're being imposed this from the outside anyway. The timing is good, all the time eRecept is now introduced and we are in full swing with other good eHealth projects. Norwegian nettapothek becomes a modernisation that makes everyday life easier for many. We assume that users are given the same access to information as in today's pharmacy. Good patient information, safe delivery and high-level suppliers are a prerequisite for the operation of Norwegian nettapothek. It is then that through a case involving measures against counterfeit medicines, we give the government notice to open up the network and to assess the classification of food supplements. We have had confidence in Norwegian consumers, but with regard to the purchase of medicines online, we would like to facilitate their purchase via Norwegian and approved online pharmacy within the same secure framework as we have in Norwegian pharmacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e185	In many cases, the proper use of medicinal products, whether headaches or serious illness, can help us to make life easier. The citizens of Norway shall have access to safe and effective medicinal products at the lowest possible price and irrespective of their ability to pay. In this context, proper drug use can be a demanding concept, precisely because different actors have their own subjective understanding of what it means. Health professionals may have one opinion, the authorities another and the pharmaceutical industry a third. So in the middle of this jungle of advice and advertising and guidance is the recipient of the medicine – with its very own perception of what is right medicine for me. The import of proprietary medicinal products by individuals is strongly increasing. This mainly applies to slimming, potency, depression and cancer. At the same time, it is known that many of the medicines purchased on the Internet are not authorised and/or falsified, with the consequence that they either do not work or can cause serious damage. The Agency estimates that approx. 200,000 Norwegians have purchased one or more medicines on the Internet, and that 62 pst. of the medicinal products sold on the Internet are fake. Some of these medicines and medicines have found ingredients such as glue, wax, lead and boric acid. Therefore, private imports of medicinal products pose a significant risk to the health of individuals and to public health. Until now, the authorities have lacked effective legal frameworks for the seizure and destruction of illegal or falsified medicinal products, with the result that the package is often returned to consignors, precisely because one relies on a bureaucratic police report to seize and destroy. In many cases, therefore, the medicinal product will be attempted to be sent to the same recipient once again, or to a new recipient, due to the guarantee of delivery of the consignor. So you have the fake medicine in circulation until it finds a recipient who injects or swallows the medicine. There is no doubt that the proposed suspension, of which the Workers' Party is a part, from the Health and Care Committee to the Stortingen on measures and legal measures to protect the population against counterfeit medicines is both long-term and necessary in order to ensure the health of patients and users and public health. While we know that the trade of medicinal products over the Internet is strongly increasing, and not least extensive, Norwegian pharmacies are currently in practice not able to engage in online trafficking in prescription drugs. The Workers' Party, SV and the Centre therefore ask the Government to carefully address the consequences of the establishment of nettapothek in Norway, with the intention of addressing the problem of counterfeit medicines. Access to retinal pharmacies must take place under reassuring conditions, such as: safe shipping and patient information and safety are ensured. Online pharmacy must have the same authority requirements for its activities as other pharmacies. Furthermore, it is necessary for the government to assess the practice of which food supplements are classified as medicinal products, as some people, due to disease, depend on different food supplements that may not be classified as medicinal products. The Workers' Party supports the Committee's recommendation on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e206	First of all, I am very pleased that it is a unanimous recommendation from the committee. This makes this setting stronger when you want to enforce what results from the law. This is also a simplification, a simplification in keeping away from having to return to consignors of illegal medicines imported into Norway without any risk. This is very important. The government has absolutely shown its power of action in this matter. It took 120 days in government to get this decision in place, a decision that is absolutely necessary and that has been urgent. I think most of us in this room have been aware of the business that is going on, but there have been no tools to make an effective counter-attack to it. We know that many patients who are affected by disease, like serious illness, sit and Google online to find out active forms of treatment, but also to find out how to obtain medicines at a reduced price. It's usually also, on various websites, carefully described what the different drugs are for, without it at all being rooted in reality. These are people who are basically in a difficult situation, who want to try everything. They are then seduced and fooled — excuse me for saying, President, but it comes from the heart — simply pure cellar lines, exploiters who are out there, who earn money on people's health. We must put an end to these things, and therefore I am pleased with the proposal that is now being unanimously adopted in the Grand Duchy. In the case of food supplements, a majority is asked to consider which food supplements are classified as medicinal products. We know that there is an ongoing debate particularly related to stronger doses of vitamin D, etc., where Norway – perhaps – has a strict legal framework in relation to some other countries with which we tend to compare. Then it might be good to look at the possibility of harmonising legislation, so that we may at least be in line with the countries we normally compare with. It would also help to be reassuring for both patients and others who use food supplements in different contexts. In conclusion, I must say that I am extremely pleased that a majority in the Committee is now actually asking for it to be facilitated for the establishment of nettapotek in Norway. Relatively many years ago, at the turn of the millennium, the signed file rapporteur was the pharmacist. At that time, the Progress Party proposed that it should be opened up to nettapothek in Norway, precisely in the light of the developments we saw around us, that a regulatory framework should be established so that a nettapothek should have the same requirements as that of the regular pharmacy in Norway. This was then not adopted, this was dismayed, and very many were very skeptical. Online pharmacy exists in many countries, and we also see Norwegian citizens using these services. It is important to ensure that we can get a really good code of online pharmacy in Norway, so that we can get a security for what you can sell, and also make it easier for patients, but not least that we can also have increased competition, within safe and secure frameworks. So I'm very happy that the majority is now finally voting for such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e221	In this proposal, it is proposed to provide a legal basis for the confiscation and destruction of medicinal products that have been attempted to import contrary to the legislation, without the need to report the situation to the police. It's a very positive suggestion. There has been full support in the hearing round, and there is full support in Stortinget today. The representative, Nesvik, said that this is because the new government was very effective and is making a proposal after 120 days. I must be allowed to say that it was the red-green government that took the initiative and sent the matter out on the phone. So I thought the government party might admit that something good came from the red-green government. Then I will admit that something good has occasionally come from the EU, as there was new knowledge, but also because of an EU directive that aims to prevent counterfeiting of medicinal products when the legal supply chain for medicinal products. There is a note in the Committee setting on food supplements. I am not in favour of evaluating the practice of which dietary supplements are to be classified as a medicinal product. The background to this is that I agree with what the Committee has said, that ‘this amendment also allows for the seizure and destruction of food supplements with illegal content of active substance — without a police report’. Thus, it applies to supplements containing active substances in such a quantity that they can be characterised as medicinal products. I would have liked to take part in a case that took a proper review of the diet, but I feel that the committee was only interested in taking the upper end up against the medicine – not a full review of the food supplement field and what can be classified as a food supplement. That's why I'm not at that particular comment. When it comes to nettapothek, I agree with the Working Party and the Red-Greens. I don't want to say that we're going to adopt nettapotek now, but we can be involved in a distribution. There is certainly a safe and good offer, but we also need to look at the consequences for both the range and the established structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e234	Effective and safe medicines are good for the health of the population. Medicinal products that do not work and are dangerous can do a lot of damage. Therefore, in order to protect public health, medicinal products have long been required to be sold only if the manufacturer first demonstrates that the medicinal product has an effect greater than the adverse reactions. In addition, operators in the pharmaceutical supply chain, such as manufacturers, importers, wholesalers and pharmacists, must be authorised before they can start their activities. This provides a safe and controllable pharmaceutical market in Norway. In the past, the general public received first and foremost access to medicinal products through pharmacies and health services. Today, each of us can obtain medicines by buying on the Internet. Trafficking on the Internet has increased sharply in recent years. Only Postens Godssenter will receive an estimated 120 000 consignments per day. At Alnabru, approx. 1000 consignments per day. Of these, approx. every third consignment of medicinal products or food supplements. Although the extent is uncertain, there is much evidence that individuals import several thousand packs containing medicinal products every single day. In recent years, the medical authorities have warned people against buying medicines via the Internet because of the risk of buying counterfeit or illegal medicines. The World Health Organisation has estimated that more than 50 pst. the medicinal products purchased online from unauthorised sellers have been falsified or unlawful. A study performed on the Agency’s website concluded that 62 pst. of the medicines sold on the Internet are fake. The buyers today have little opportunity to make sure that the medicines they buy are real. False medicinal products may be ineffective. In worst cases, they can be directly harmful. This use may mean that the patient is not treated with a serious illness. The authorities are currently lacking effective grounds for the seizure and destruction of such medicinal products that are being tested to be imported in smaller quantities. In practice, therefore, they are in many cases returned to the consignor, who then has the opportunity to send them again until they reach the consignee. In fact, there are some of these who operate with a delivery guarantee. I have therefore proposed that the authorities be given the opportunity to seize and destroy illegally imported medicinal products. While police and prosecution authorities have to be involved today in the seizure of illegally imported medicinal products, the customs and pharmaceutical authorities will be able to seize and destroy the medicinal products after notifying the recipient. This ensures that counterfeit medicinal products are withdrawn from circulation, while contributing to more effective import control and ensuring that police and prosecution authorities are able to use their resources in other areas. Agents are not themselves purchasers or sellers of the medicinal products and have no physical condition with them. Such intermediaries are not currently subject to authorisation. Since these have contributed to the introduction of counterfeit medicines in Europe, I have proposed that regulations should be able to lay down more detailed requirements for such intermediaries. It is an important and absolutely necessary legislative change to which Stortinget today, hopefully unanimously, subscribes. There is reason to say that this is a work that started under the previous government, but it is high time it was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e255	I am extremely pleased that today, at Stortinget, we are adopting these changes. You have to be careful to say that you have to protect people from yourself, but in this case, it's actually incredibly important action we're taking. Unfortunately, many people diagnose themselves from home and trade medicine online rather than go to the doctor and get them prescribed for their suffering. In particular, it is a large market for so-called embarrassing medicines, which were used here instead, as potentants and diet pills. Pirate drugs are purchased online, and many take great risks, and you act in good faith. But in reality, you're acting in ignorance about what's the content of that medicine. It is purchased for huge sums, as the rapporteur said, and there are many fakes out there. Some people have suffered severely after use. Even here in Norway, deaths have actually occurred after someone has taken these kinds of drugs. In the last period, I asked questions to the then health minister, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, who started this work in investigating the changes to the legislation that had to be made in this area. It has been important to focus on more effective facilities for the seizure and destruction of illegally imported medicinal products, so that it no longer has to be returned to the consignor, because it only contributes to someone else being sent the same medicine. The customs authorities have informed that an estimated 120 000 postal consignments arrive daily from abroad to the Postens Godssenter. That means that the scope is quite large, and it will be a bit demanding to follow the enforcement of this law. That's why I think what's important in the future is that you come out with as much information as possible about how dangerous it can be, and that the risk is great by doing this. I would also like to challenge the Council of State a little bit on the question of how the Customs Authority is now going to enforce this law: will they get extra funds to do so? Would they have the resources and the capacity to enforce the law, destroy the drugs and take the necessary checks to put an end to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e274	I will not undertake to answer for the Council of State, but it is enough that this amendment will facilitate the resource use of Customs and give them more room for control since it becomes less bureaucratic to deal with what is being seized. However, it is also stated in the report from the Department that there is a need for any costs to be borne by the Agency. With regard to this issue, which is really a simple change in the pharmaceutical law, it's amazing how many breakthroughs we've had in the staging room: we've only opened up to nettapothek. In addition, we got the Central Party to admit that there are good things coming from the EU. And now I can follow up by saying that this case came from the red-green, and that's a good thing. And once again, the debate shows that we are unanimous and agree that this is good. Medicine in a fool's hands is married, and poison in a wise man's hand is a medicine. With regard to the discussion on whether to introduce retapothek now or whether to have a broad assessment first, I am absolutely convinced that if we do not open up to retapothek, the problem of buying drugs via websites abroad will increase. Now the pharmacy law has worked for almost 13 years. We have received a triple in the number of pharmacies in Norway. Major structural changes have already been made. I am convinced that Norway is mature for retapothec. But when said, one cannot do this without changing the prescription, probably also in the Pharmacy Act, because, as the representative Nesvik said, the Pharmacy Act does not authorize this. There'll probably be one round or two more here in Stortinget before we get this in place. Regarding this with food supplements, as the representative Toppe mentioned, I agree that we should be restrictive. But at the same time: if we are so strict in Norway that it seems quite unreasonable in the eyes of consumers, and we see that Norwegian practice is very much stricter than in other countries, although the legislation is quite similar, I think it is timely that we ask for an assessment of individual cases. I am very confident that the department will handle this in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e285	There was a question of customs handling the legislation. The State budget for 2014 added an increase of 3 million. to strengthen customs enforcement. At the same time, there is also reason to believe that the customs service will save money on postage to the shipments of this, which is not insignificant either. Of course, it's also a much smaller bureaucratic system, which will also free a resource through it. Of course, with regard to the comments of the Committee on Food Grants, the government will follow it up and receive an assessment at an appropriate time. The issue of net drug use is an important topic, and this will involve an investigation work in which we will have to carefully evaluate the various issues, for example: this by ensuring that a good consignment of, among other things: medicinal products that are temperature sensitive. I believe that it will be fully possible to investigate and establish framework conditions for this which can ensure the safety of medicinal products in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e292	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e308	This interpellation is about incredibly vulnerable people, because we're talking about those who often labor the most in our society. We should be careful to stigmatise and think that all seriously ill patients with mental disorders are dangerous. We'll talk about these people with respect, warmth and care. At the same time, we need to look at the challenges that lie there and see if we can get on together and find measures and laws that are appropriate to the measures. I think everyone's goal in this room is to have safe services for everyone: that the individual sufferer who is ill is given proper help, so that he or she may be safe and not be a danger to himself or other users, relatives, employees or others, that other patients living around those who are ill can also feel safe and maintained for themselves that relatives of users should know that their family member is being well cared for professionally and humanly, and that they can be safe that he or she is most happy is taken care of: In Stavanger Aftenblad on December 17, 2013, there was a young girl and several others who had had great and bad experiences in different municipalities around our country. They involved felt that the local authorities had taken a little hold on their problem. I have asked myself some questions. Where are we? What are the facts? When we talk about bombs ticking around the community – because that's what we're saying – one can wonder why we haven't heard the tick before it snaps. That's what the head of mental health said. We have these events that have emerged through the media lately. Some people are afraid. Others create self-righteousness. I am grateful that the government has said that they will bet on the Russians and psychiatry, but we also need to know what we want with this bet. Where do we find these patients that we know can be a challenge? Why don't we hear the ticking that the head of mental health is talking about? Why is there someone we can't catch? Could it be that from the start, already in kindergarten, we are actually not good enough to see the challenges and report them further? Have these people fallen between professional groups in the municipalities from the small ones? Have we been too poor in the transitions between different disciplines and different fields of service, since they were young and growing up, so that we haven't caught them up, and they've fallen between all the chairs? Some of these patients are found in the specialist health service. They've had a serious illness. They have entered security areas or closed wards in psychiatry, and once they have been processed there, they must then go straight into the municipality – straight into a community. Other of these patient groups are actually in prison, where their mental illness develops. They're going to go straight into the municipality. Everyone's going to a municipality. Many municipalities struggle to have good enough housing for this group, because some of them have a mixture of drugs and psychiatry. The big question I'm asking myself is, do we have the whole picture of this? Who is responsible for the seventh and last? Is it the municipality that doesn't discover it early enough? Is it the state, who prints through the hospital too early, or who doesn't have enough specialist health care, and says that the patients are finished, and then they're not? Is there anything about the law here? The hospital has its own law. The municipality has a different law and cannot use coercion. The municipalities have to accept. It is not always that they have neither housing nor professionals to do the job they would like to do. They also feel that the law sometimes prevents them from doing a good job. I met a mariner in a municipality with 17,000 inhabitants. He told me they had two patients in his municipality, who for them stood for 20 pst. Of crime, but they couldn't do anything, because the law didn't. It's not good for the patient, the municipality or the surrounding area. The municipalities lack professionals. They lack competence. Many people are in a sick patient in the course of a week, and thus you do not see when the user gets sicker. There was a patient who told me that in a week there were seven-eight different people coming in. Is that why we don't hear the ticking? KS asked for a report from Agenda Kaupang – ‘When care fails’. I know that this report is really aimed at the care of the elderly, but I think we can still see some similarities. Some of the events were not discovered by the media or by relatives. Therefore they did not come into the light and remained lying. There were few cases reported. Thus, there were few cases in which to build on learning and experience — one did not become a learning organisation because one did not report. That's why this is also going to be a matter of attitudes, security and transparency enough to learn from the mistakes we're making. Cross-disciplinary cooperation — being able to do things across professional bodies — is prevention. The relatives are often told that they are a resource for all of us. But are they? Do we listen to their experience when they feel that their closest ones are getting worse? In fact, they account for a fairly large proportion of our care and take great responsibility for the seriously ill. We have to listen to the relatives. Ethical reflection on the failure of an organisation is an important step forward – that employees can say: We can be here, but if we go further, it happens and that happens to this patient, because we know him. Systematic work and systematised knowledge of failures and serious failures help to create a direction for targeted work to build skills, culture and attitudes. It's a management responsibility. I think cooperation between specialist health services, county councils and municipalities can be better. We've had a bunch of campaigns over time. Nevertheless, there are equally many undesirable events. We think it's bad when it happens. Not least it hurts those who experience it. I also know that the red-green government has launched a patient safety campaign. That's very good. We have a lot of supervision. But what kind of attitudes do we have to them? Are they a plague and a plague – a booklet – or do we want to use them for something good? We're talking about risk and vulnerability analysis in general. But are we ready to use them when we have analysed the risk? Municipalities shall receive guidance from the specialists. But do they get enough guidance? I was on a municipal visit to Sandnes. They know that this is a big challenge for them. They have four challenging inhabitants, to whom they have built four housing units. There are 26 job homes for four people. None of the employees are without higher education. They say they work at the limit of the law, but they want to do it, because they see that they are unable to meet these challenges without doing so. I challenge the Council of State in view of whether we should have a half-way service, a service that would both meet the needs of these citizens, and not least create a professional environment around them – building a specialist health service that is not a hospital, but is so good that we are able to provide and provide good health care to them. I think we need to think about new and different things in the future. We have to make the law work, along with the service we want. I ask the Council of State, after giving my description of how I see it: what does he think we can do in the future to ensure the security, both for those people who need help, and for those who live in the same municipality, and who are also patients or users? What does the Council of State think we can do for the care service as a whole, for those who are going to work there, and to ensure enough knowledge and people who are going to work there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e354	I would like to thank the representative of Bollestad for his contribution to a very important debate. The problem raised is complex. It also appeared well in the interpellant's articles. Several municipalities experience major challenges related to some people in need of help who have cognitive failure, challenging behaviour, are seriously mentally ill, and who sometimes do not consent to health and care services. Some people have drug problems and a background of crime, and they can be perceived as threatening. For some, neither the conditions for housing in prison nor the conditions for the use of coercion under health and care legislation are met. In these cases, the consideration of individual freedom could be weighed and assessed against society’s need for protection. From a number of quarters, critical questions have been asked about the way in which this balance has been made, especially when something has gone tragically wrong. But when something serious happens, one cause is rarely found alone, for example. a diagnosis. I'm concerned that we're not going to stigmatize individuals or groups in society. It may in itself affect attitudes and contribute to their not seeking and providing services that can help. However, we must recognise that some people who are considered dangerous have fallen between two chairs — the health sector and the justice sector. In this area, there have been many investigations without subsequent action. That is why, together with the Minister of Justice, I would like to thank you for this. Municipalities and specialist health services have a statutory obligation to provide the necessary health and care services. Responsibilities also include resource-intensive users and persons with obscene or violent behaviour. What is necessary and appropriate health and care services shall be determined on the basis of an individual assessment of the individual’s needs. This requires adequate competence and personnel and well-coordinated services. Municipalities may apply to the Health Directorate for partial reimbursement of wage costs for particularly resource-intensive health and care services. The decision-makers are important to be able to capture the kind of problems we're discussing here. They shall further refer to the specialist health service if necessary. The municipality shall facilitate cooperation between the local authorities and other service providers and ensure that the permanent scheme is well integrated in the provision of health and care services by the municipality. More knowledge of mental illness, cognitive failure, developmental retardation, drug dependence and good treatment reduces the risk of fixed situations and creates a basis for good dialogue with individuals. Today, we know that people with mental disorders or cognitive failures living in a safe environment pose very little danger to other people. This is why the institution’s care for people with developmental disabilities was discontinued and that the number of daily places in mental health protection from 1970 to the present day is reduced from 14,000 to 4000 places. The prerequisite for these major changes is partly the strong expansion of municipal health services, better housing, social services, work and employment, and partly better specialist health services, in particular outpatient and outpatient services. Responsibility for following up persons mentioned in the interpellation lies with several bodies. These may include municipal health and care services, specialist health services, labour and welfare management, child protection and police. It is essential that the statutory duty of cooperation between these services be fulfilled and that efforts are coordinated. In order to provide necessary and sound assistance, close cooperation between service providers, users and – if possible – relatives is essential. The relative, together with the patient/user, has a right of participation if he/she is not himself able to care for his/her interests. User involvement is more than one legal right. It is also essential for professional good services. Taking the user and family perspective seriously means listening and using their experience to improve services. This means that the advance notifications that can and often come must be taken seriously. Security is created through mastering, cooperation, trust and not least through good competence. Security is about preventing crises. Good crisis plans, developed in cooperation with users, relatives and auxiliaries, ensure a common understanding of danger signals and shall help to ensure that users, relatives and personnel always have a call point so that assistance is readily available. User-controlled DPS locations are an easily accessible option for many with severe and complex disorders. These people need more municipal services, and there is much to be gained from strengthening the multidisciplinary municipal work of patients with a complex need for help. Individual level and coordinator, as intended by law, could be important instruments to help coordinate supply better. It is essential that municipalities and specialist health services cooperate closely in these matters. Active outreach treatment teams are examples of good cooperation between municipalities and specialist health services. The team provides a comprehensive range of services for people with severe mental and drug problems who use the regular services to a small extent. I will look carefully at the evaluation of the teams coming later this year, and will assess whether such teams can also be an offer to other patient and user groups, and consider what is needed to further develop that part of the service. The law and regulation imposes on businesses an obligation to have internal control over compliance with statutory obligations and that services are at all times sound. This should also be a tool for learning in municipalities and health enterprises. If failures or weaknesses are detected, they shall be rectified immediately. In addition to internal controls, the competent authorities of the counties and the health surveillance authorities shall supervise the proper functioning of the services. Whether or not a notification system should be established for the municipal services is something I would like to assess. I have also been asked whether a subject should be set up with rapid access to the investigation of relief measures for at-risk adults. I would like to look into this when the Health Directorate has assessed a technical report and when the Storting has addressed the notification of the developmentally disabled. I would also like to refer to the Syse Committee, which is to assess how serious incidents and suspicions of crimes in the healthcare sector should be followed up by society. After changing their mandate, the committee shall assess whether the establishment of a commission of inquiry is appropriate, but shall also propose the legal and organisational basis for such a commission. The committee shall also assess whether the police should have health professional competence when investigating serious incidents in healthcare. The aim of this government is to strengthen the provision of municipal services to people with mental illness, both by focusing more on prevention and by expanding the provision of lowthreshold services in municipalities. Such an offer must also include people with mild developmental disabilities and mental problems, who are currently receiving municipal services to a lesser extent — either because they are not known to have a developmental handicap or because they do not want such help. Let me stress that it is perhaps the sickest who most need the treatment threshold to be lower. We need to ensure that the municipalities are large and robust enough to handle the tasks they are assigned to them, and we want to work for a solid empowerment in the municipal health and care services. Among other things, we have Strengthened Competencelift 2015 by 50 million. kr in 2014. This provides room for more adult education and decentralised higher education. The Government Platform also determines that an escalating plan should be established for the drug field. The governance signals of health enterprises have made it clear that outpatient clinics, rehabilitation services, outpatient services and user-controlled sites should be given priority. The government implements the rule that mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment of drug problems should have a higher growth rate than somatic health services in all health regions. In the case of insertion and outsourcing, violence risk shall be assessed. The basic idea that services should be built around patients and users is, I believe, the most important step towards better and safer services. That is why I am very pleased that the future supervisor of local mental health and drug treatment also contributes to the creation of the patient’s health and care service. We also review circulars on legal certainty through coercion and power towards individuals with mental retardation. I want to assure the interpellant that the government is working to ensure safety both for people receiving health and care services and for society. At the same time, we're going to work to have a good system of evaluation when serious events actually happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e394	I agree with the Council of State that it is the sickest sick people who need the lowest threshold on the offer, because it is nice for us to have the most trouble getting in touch with them. I also very much agree with this with user-controlled locations. But they have to enter the system first in order to be able to use the user-driven places, and it's often before they get to the point where they get to us, that they can make use of it. I am also grateful that the Minister says that he and the Minister of Justice together will address the issue of the group of people falling between two chairs. But I still want to go back to what it is that makes someone fall between two chairs. I think some of it might be that the regulation for mentally ill children and young people in the municipality defines to a small extent who in the municipality is responsible before they are 18. The decision maker has a central role, and it should be lacking, but is it the health centre, is it the kindergarten, is it the PPT service, is it child protection – of all these that are around the children – that has to take total responsibility for the mentally ill children until they are 18 years old? I know that the municipalities are asking for this, and we would like to have a clarification of it. Maybe we should define this more clearly in the regulation. In addition, we have had an interaction reform, and it is good. It was aimed at creating a seamless health system, including in mental health. But anyway, I see some issues, and it's a matter of equivalency between the specialist health service and the municipality. Who is that who has the power to define when the patient is ready to print, and we can't do more? It is then the specialist health service that has both the power of definition and the right to print, and the municipality has to accept it. For this group it is important that it is well prepared when they come out – that there are teams around them that can help, that the dwelling is there, and that we have the trade unions around. It's not always like that when it's the specialist health service that has the power of definition. That is why I also want to challenge the Council of State to look at how local health companies deal with the municipalities and the agreements with them in the interests of equivalency – that you have an equivalency when you want to see if patients are actually ready to come from specialist health services and to a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e405	I would like to thank the interpellant for the recordings of the debate further. The Health Directorate is now also investigating the relationship between the education requirements of the law and the state of competence of the services of persons with developmental disabilities. It is also an important work in relation to some of the issues raised. Then I think we need to recognise in a way – and that is also what government policy is in this area, and as I see it also has broad political support – that the main solution lies in the municipalities. It is building up good competences in the municipal service that is much of the solution to this. It is therefore important to give municipalities the opportunity to get more people who have higher education, to further train those who are already working in the service, but also to clarify national leadership on qualifications requirements. But these are groups that also require coordinated services. With regard to the issue raised by the interpellant regarding children, one will not find a good solution to it without the various actors being able to cooperate in a better way. Then one would think that it was in the municipality, where one has an overall responsibility, that one managed the best – where one is responsible for school, child protection, health and social services, etc. But nevertheless, we see that there are still challenges to it, even if the responsibility is located in one place. Then also, the specialist health service needs to be better at going out, to be out in the municipalities, to support the services provided in the municipalities. This is probably where the two-way service is best provided, because the expertise and authority in the specialist healthcare service are more widely available to patients and users where they live – that instead of moving on to users and patients, we are moving on to services. It is also important that municipalities learn when things go wrong. Here we have a major challenge throughout the healthcare system – we are not a good enough learning organisation. Too often it is concluded that once the Health and County Medical Officer has said that nothing has happened illegally, or that the service is proper, it is good enough. No, that's not good enough. One also has to go into the specific situations and learn: what was it that caused this event to occur? Often there is not one explanation factor, but one often has a lot to learn from going into the individual situation. Then it doesn't work as it does, among other things. came out in the report in Stavanger Aftenblad, that the people concerned are discussing it over lunch. One must work much more systematically with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e420	The theme of this interpellation, violence by mentally ill people, often against other weak groups, arouses strong feelings in most of us – and grief, pain, and perhaps also seasickness in those affected in a different way. First of all, it is important to stress that mental illness in itself poses a rather moderate risk of violence. It shows all the research. Very many people come into contact during their lives with mentally ill people or have a mental illness. The vast majority of mentally ill people are no more dangerous than most healthy ones. There must be an important starting point for this interpellant debate, as both the interpellant and the Council of State also mentioned. But when the accident strikes, when people are killed or injured by people who are ill, we look for explanations: Could we have prevented this? Can we learn from what went wrong, so that it doesn't happen again? The interpellant looks at how particularly vulnerable people — children, young people, the elderly or people who are sick at sea — are likely to be more vulnerable to this type of violence than others. It draws a more complex picture and makes it even more important to clearly address the problems we are discussing today. The relationship between mental illness and domestic violence is relatively well known. Recent studies on the theme embrace a wide range of mental health conditions. The overview shows that the risk of exposure to e.g.: Partner violence is much higher in women with depression and anxiety than in women without mental distress. We also know that many older people are subjected to violence by their mentally ill adult children, and we have also experienced that children have been killed by adult carers or by other adults they trusted. It is undoubtedly a major challenge to identify people who may be at risk to others, especially when dealing with patients without a known background of violence. Often it has been found that there may be relationships between patients and the environment that allow some people to act violently in given situations. The use of drugs may increase this likelihood. For this reason, we must work with the aim of identifying the risk situations that can trigger aggression and violence. A realistic picture can help to adapt assistance and treatment as early as possible, avoiding unnecessary measures for people at low risk, and also preventing people at high risk from being overlooked. To ensure the quality of patient assessments, good knowledge and access to good diagnostic tools are required. District psychiatric centres, outpatient clinics, specialist hospitals and contract specialists must be able to assess risk situations both during the patient’s stay and during the hospitalisation and outsourcing phase. It is also very important that different institutions cooperate well in the care of mentally ill people. The police are often an important body, and the police officer in Troms, Ole B. Säverud, recently stated that the police can become much better at communicating information to the health services about serious mental illness. The same will apply to other social institutions. An important conclusion is that early intervention in the auxiliaries is absolutely necessary to prevent people from developing severe mental disorders. In many cases, getting a low-threshold offer in the municipality where you live with an initial mental or drug problem will be the most important help you can get. And then we have to get in and help people in an early life, already in childhood and youth. Therefore, it is so important that the government has more focus on municipal health services in psychiatry than it has so far communicated. Strengthening municipal psychiatry may go beyond a bastant demand to spend more money on psychiatry than on somatics in specialist health services. Perhaps this can lead to people getting help at such an early stage that hospitalization is not necessary, and that, in addition, treatment resources are released in hospitals and in the specialist healthcare of the very sickest, who really need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e443	The representative of Bollestad brings up an extremely important debate, which shows a major social problem that has been allowed to evolve in the wrong direction over many years. For too long, we have experienced that people with serious drug problems and personality disorders have not received the follow-up that one should expect. Stavanger Aftenblad brings with him his series a part of too many events that show that this is a social problem that needs to be given greater attention and priority. In addition to the matters referred to in the Evening Leaf, mention can be made of the brutal carnage, Nav-employee killed in Oslo, knife stabbing at the TIMExpress in Sogn and Fjordane and, last but not least, the Aksla-drap in Ålesund, where a young student from Bergen was brutally raped and killed while she was out jogging on high light day. The attacker here has multiple violent convictions, has been admitted to a drugstore and has previously threatened to kill women. He killed while he was waiting for atonement. Where is the auxiliaries to assist the sick, violent person while he is waiting for a zone? And what about the security that we others in his presence should be able to expect? Too often, when we stand there with serious violence or killing, care legislation is not met in terms of the need for protection of society. Municipalities and specialist health services have a statutory obligation to provide the necessary health and care services, which also include resource-intensive users and persons with obscene or violent behaviour. One must be able to expect the statutory duty of cooperation between services to be fulfilled and that the services are well coordinated. It is sad to see that municipalities are showing a lack of willingness to accept maritime criticism, as reflected in the Stavanger Aftenblad survey. Most of the municipalities concerned are in maritime defence and claim that they could not have done anything else, except for the municipality of Namso, which takes maritime criticism and says that they have learned from the incident where a young woman was killed in one of the municipality's housing communities. They have chosen to be examined by an unhindered third party. Every time a new tragedy occurs in which an unspeakable, sick person hurts or kills another human being, we wonder why this unhappy human being has not received the help it needs. I dare say that the system is now calling for a commission of inquiry to investigate such tragedies when they happen. The government has started the important job of strengthening the treatment of mentally ill and addicted people. In addition, child protection and school health services are strengthened at an earlier stage in order to prevent and capture more people who are struggling. It's important not to build up under prejudices. Russ problems and mental illness alone do not make people dangerous. At the same time, we will always have people among us who, for various reasons, are unbeatable. The society must then weigh humane considerations, and good help and care for the individual against the need for safety of other people. These are some of the difficult balances we just have to deal with. In the past, we barred many people with aberrant behavior into closed institutions. Today we know that many can get a new life with the right help, but then the help has to be there when they need it. This can be expensive in some cases, but we see that the alternatives can often be much more expensive to society, because these events produce incredible ring-effects. I am pleased that the Minister of Health, along with the specialist health service, the municipalities and the Minister of Justice, will now seek to find good arrangements together to make this offer better for these people who need it. I put my trust in the Minister of Health and the bet in both drugs and psychiatry, because we know that many of these cases happen just because of drugs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e473	The representative of Bollestad has addressed an important topic for debate today. Security, both for people receiving and providing municipal health and care services, is particularly important, and serious incidents such as assault and violence should not occur, but unfortunately it does. The Government Platform states: ‘There is a need to strengthen and modernise health and care services in municipalities and to ensure better coordination of the overall health supply. Employees are the health care's most important resource and the government will implement a level of competence to enhance the quality of service.» We need to ensure that the municipalities have size and robustness enough to handle the tasks they are assigned to them. The right-wing Party government will work towards a solid empowerment of municipal health and care services. Already in the State budget for 2014, the government strengthened continuing training in the health and care sector by 50 million. kr, which is an important step in the right direction. The increased proportion of skilled people in the services will contribute to increased quality and reduce the incidence of serious incidents, to which the representative of Bollestad refers. As the Council of State mentioned in its reply, municipalities and specialist health services have a statutory obligation to provide the necessary health and care services. This responsibility also includes resource-intensive users and persons with demeaning or violent behaviour. What is necessary and appropriate health and care services shall be determined on the basis of an individual assessment of the individual’s needs. Adequate competence and personnel and well-coordinated services are required. It is important to stress that municipalities may apply to the Health Directorate for a partial reimbursement of compensation of compensation of wages for particular resource-intensive health and care services, because deprived municipalities should not be prevented from providing the necessary services. As the Council of State also pointed out, the decision-makers are important in terms of the problem that the interpellant travels in the hall here today. They shall further refer to the specialist health service whenever necessary. Local authorities must and must facilitate cooperation between the local authorities and other service providers and ensure that the permanent scheme is well integrated in the provision of health and care services by the municipality. I am pleased that the Council of State said that the very basic idea and the most important step towards better and safer services is that these should be built around patients and users. User involvement is not only a statutory right, it is also essential for the provision of the best professional services. Family members, together with the patient, also have a right of participation if they themselves are unable to care for their interests. Taking the user and family perspective seriously means listening, using their experience to improve services. We know that increased knowledge of mental illness, cognitive failure, developmental retardation, drug dependence and good treatment reduces the risk of serious incidents. The Council of State referred to the Syse Committee, which is to assess how serious incidents and suspicions of crimes in the healthcare sector should be followed up by society. It's an important job. It is also important that individual users do not fall between two chairs at work for the good and safe provision of good and safe services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e495	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an incredibly important topic. At the same time – as many have said here – it is important that we do not stigmatise all those who are struggling with mental health challenges. We all have a mental health, and several of us will face challenges there once in a lifetime. Municipalities have had many and large tasks in recent years. There have been many major reforms. We have the responsibilities reform, which came more than 20 years ago, we have had the psychiatry reform, which was between 1998 and 2008, and now the cooperation reform, which came in 2012. It is no secret that the same municipalities that have been given new tasks may find that not all funds and resources have followed with the new tasks they have been given. In particular, it may be the silent reform that some people experience in these days, that the cooperation reform has also begun to apply in psychiatry. There is a lot of pressure in many municipalities with ready-to-print patients waiting for housing and follow-up outside the municipalities. It is important that all those responsible for serious mental illness at risk of violence work closely together. This applies to the police, to all levels of a community health service, and to the specialist health service. It must not be that the organisational obstacles make us powerless. We know that a person who has been assessed as ready to print in psychiatry one day, the next day may need specialised treatment and follow-up in psychiatry again. That's how fast it can actually change. It has a lot to do with a freer framework condition when you get into the municipality, and not least access to drugs, which makes behavior and health suddenly change. This is a major challenge for those responsible for following up and providing services in the community health service. Therefore, interaction and cooperation are incredibly important, and there is a need to improve. In fact, the community, police and specialist health services must recognise that people with serious mental illness in combination with alcohol and risk of violence are a shared responsibility, and efforts to improve interaction need to be intensified. It is important to prevent serious incidents – we are constantly reading about them. The seriously ill need to be cared for in a better way. Those who are neighbors, relatives and in the community must be able to feel safe. I am pleased that the government is clearly aware that the growth in health budgets is now going to be greater in mental health and alcohol than in the somatic environment. There is a clear signal for health businesses, which have downgraded this much in recent years. I am pleased that the Council of State will address this difficult challenge in terms of them – there are not so many, fortunately – that fall between the chairs. It's important, and it's about both health and law, so I'm also glad he says that he's going to cooperate with the Minister of Justice to figure out and see what you can do for the serious psychological psyche that doesn't even realize that they need to receive treatment and follow-up, and to say no to good, preventive measures. Here it is important to see the individual's right to freedom and to do what you want, in relation to society's need for security and protection. I'm glad that the government takes this seriously, and that it's working both in the prevention field and that, when you experience serious incidents, you have to evaluate them properly, so that you can learn from the mistakes that are made, so that things don't happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e506	First, thank you to the interpellant Bollestad for an interesting but serious interpellation. How are we to prevent seriously ill people, who need health, care and social services, from being a danger to themselves and others? How are we to prevent serious events such as killing, assault and gross violence, carried out by unencumbered persons against the needy or minors? How can we ensure that relatives are safe at their place of work and taken seriously? The Minister of Health has a great and difficult responsibility in this area, and efforts must be made in several fields. Stavanger Aftenblad referred on December 17 to several serious events in municipalities. The most serious thing was perhaps to read that many municipalities did not have a systematic evaluation of the serious events. I am pleased that the Minister of Health states that this must happen – it is not enough to discuss it in the lunchroom afterwards. Here's room for improvement. In January, the NRK had a series of reports on killings carried out in Norway for the last ten years. Half were killed by a seriously mentally ill person. There have been criticisms about the way this was presented, looking up that we should not stigmatise mentally ill people. It's not the diagnosis that kills. Nevertheless, this debate on what we can do to prevent better is important. We can improve the prevention of electoral acts. We can take greater responsibility for the responsible supply of seriously mentally ill people. We can listen to professionals when they say they're worried that the psychiatry has built the institutions too heavily. We can listen to them when they say we have to look at daycare institutions at the point of intersection between short- and long-term treatment. We have too much swing door treatment. We know that there are sick people being printed out too soon. There are too many outpatient services for those who are seriously mentally ill and who need an institution stay. Then, too, some mentally ill people are still appearing as police tasks. It shouldn't be like that. What is important is that we have to develop a comprehensive low-threshold supply. It should not be difficult to apply for help when something is wrong. The government has introduced the golden rule that drug and psychiatry interventions should increase more separately than somatic treatment in hospitals. That's what I'm talking about. I mean it's starting at the wrong end. I mean, instead, we should have started with a municipal escalation plan, because that's where the plug in the system is. We know it's up to 7 pst. Outpatients in hospitals are becoming more and more ready to print, and there is a special need for housing in municipalities. We have to get a municipal escalating plan, preferably with ear-marked means. There is a need — it shows developments after the end of the previous escalation plan. There's a danger, as I said, that when we focus on killing and acts of violence against mental diagnosis, we get the impression that mentally ill people are dangerous. It's very important to work against it. The state Olsen selection examined just this a few years ago, and they showed that there are complicated cause and effect ratios behind each killing case. Quite independently of diagnosis, intoxication, especially alcohol, is a contributing factor in the majority of all killings that occur in Norway. I also want to remind you that we are talking about serious events and killings. But it's suicide that makes up most of the killings and deaths that are carried out by people with mental disorders. This is a very difficult area to talk about. It is a demanding political task to ensure that violence is reduced, and to reduce serious events that happen. But there is the potential to focus more on prevention concretely on those most seriously mentally ill, and I would like to contribute to it in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e532	I want to thank you for the debate on a difficult topic, but I think there is a cross-political consensus that this is a challenge. When the representative Toppe also talks about the 5,000 who try to take their own life every year, we can save 4,400 of them, but 600 can do it, so it's a huge challenge. The decision has a central role – I fully agree with that. They don't always meet the patient first, but they may meet relatives first, who are concerned because they see that one of them is ill. But the patient doesn't want help and doesn't want to join a regular. When one finally enters the auxiliary unit, one may have become so seriously ill that the only thing to do is to put in the big measures. The council also said that the main solution lies in the municipalities, and I fully agree with that. At the same time, I think that good professional environments and good professional environments are the best when there are other disciplines around, where one gets warmed up and developed one another to be development-oriented and innovative together, and where one is not sectored. I also think that we have some control mechanisms and supervision, which often describe things as professionally sound and well enough. That's when I ask the question: Yes, it's professionally and fairly good enough, but for this patient group we can ask: Is it ethically good enough? Or is it ethically reprehensible sometimes? We need to build up municipalities to become a learning organisation – learning from failure creates security for failure to become a learner. Evaluation is good. But I'm also very concerned that it's not just going to be talking, but that it also has to turn into concrete actions for them. What kind of homes do we need? Do we need manned homes, manning 24 hours a day? Do we need other types of housing? We need another type of competence, etc.? Finally, it's the seriously ill and the environment around them that goes beyond if we can't solve this. The least worthy of it is that the sick person feels that we are unable to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. I thank you again for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e550	I would also like to thank you for the debate, and take with me the views and recordings that have come. But I see that there is a fairly broad political consensus both on the description of reality and on what direction we need to go in to solve some of these challenges. Then I also think the debate is very clearly marked by the fact that no one comes up with a quick fix solution to this, but that one sees that one has to work systematically in many areas. It's important for me to stress that we all have a mental health. People with mental health challenges are not dangerous. It's incredibly important that we build up prejudices against mental health challenges, because it's in itself important to lower the threshold to seek help and to be open to their surroundings when everyday life gets tough. Several have mentioned the challenges of identifying the so-called dangerous persons or ticking bombs. I really want to turn that problem around and say, maybe we're looking for the wrong place. Maybe we should stop looking for the individuals who define them as ticking bombs, and rather ask the more basic question: Should a listen to where in the services it's ticking? Often, it is not least in the services that you should look at where the danger signals are when you are not able to help people in a good enough way. I think many of those ticks come from the fact that one is not able to have good enough coordinated services, where one does not see things in connection between the different responsibilities. There we have a big challenge across healthcare, but I think we may have an extra big challenge in municipal health and care. Then there's a series of measures that we're doing. We need to develop better drug and mental health services, especially in municipalities. It is quite right that we have said that the growth in mental health and drug use in specialist health services should be higher than the growth in somatics. I think that's right. There are two main reasons for that. First of all, it's to take care of the escalation plan that's been in psychiatry. The second is that the municipalities are now very concerned about somatics, because of the tools of the Interaction Reform, and many municipalities are therefore not in a good enough position to help some of these patients. It is important, however, that we have also given clear guidance in this respect, namely that it is the close services to be extended – in the DPS, in the multidisciplinary teams, what benefits municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e563	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e579	In Norway, we have stated that the oil and gas resources will benefit the entire population, and the petroleum industry says that it will provide regional benefits. This has been underlined by Stortinget in the form of both comments and articles, and in all individual cases there are no Romantic decisions. Petroleum industries have generated good income for the country and many jobs in some regions. Geographical spread — and not accumulation — reduces pressure on the press area and is of decisive importance for the signal and incentive that a sender sends when it comes to new search areas. At the meeting with Sogn and Fjordane's bench, the county spokespersons with several spokespersons said that what he was up to was Roman language decisions and letters of approval when it came to whether concessions were followed up or not. I disagree that this is the correct conclusion, both from previous practice and from the Storting position in relation to government. I have also looked at many of the letters of approval from the department. There seems to be a continuous logic in that they in the letters of approval refer to the current propositions and settings. It is therefore appropriate to ask the Minister how he and the government will follow up on a mass — possibly clear bulky — of concessional conditions at the Flora base, especially, and in relation to the general kerosene. The biggest thing is without doubt that Sogn and Fjordane will have a greater share of petroleum cake, and that the Flora base will grow. The size of the population has pointed out to the urime doctor that the land-based activity — after 30 years of activity and at 35 pst. of Norway’s oil presence outside the county – only in 1.3 pst. In comparison, Hordaland has about 20 pst. and Møre and Romsdal 12 pst. When things are now up-to-date, Statoil, owned by two thirds of the state, will reduce the land-based activity of Sogn and the Fjords. I have understood the minister that he will not use the ownership cork to ask if evidence of why longer sailing patterns gives greater economic and environmental savings, or for transparency in different calculations. Rather, the Minister would like to know how much the economic difference will be in the middle of the supply between the county of Hordaland and Sogn and the Fjordane, thus improving the follow-up to the intention of petroleum law and the Stortinget. Another aspect is security and the environment. The centralisation will take place in Mongstad, which is already a burdened port today, without new requirements for oil protection or being addressed in a socio-economic account. The expansion of this port, which must be able to double the activity of Statoil's plans now, will also lead to new, large investments for which the rational use of existing capacity is not actually needed, and which are in no way in line with the expectations of reduced activity in the North Sea, which Statoil has expressed at several times. Such arrangements are poor in terms of good resource management or health, environment and safety, such as: is expressed in petroleum law § 10-2. Having an active ownership is something the government of Solberg is against, and that was a warning in the election campaign. So I'm not going to go into it so much more, just remember that in practice, there's a big difference between the Red-Green ownership policy and the Right and the Progress Party's ownership policy. I would also like to point out that the majority of the population was clear on the social responsibility and importance of it, and the rhetoric in the election struggle from the Right and the Advance Party was far from passively looking at a reduction of the Flora base, on the contrary. The concession terms were not supposed to be at all, and the base would go a bright future waiting with a bourgeois government behind the wheel. The reality is that the government of Solberg has no intention of doing anything when Statoil now reduces land-based activity. The minister was ready in his speech in the Question Time here in the hall that it was far from a break of the petroleum law to reduce land activity down to 1 pst. It was the case in Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland, and will then also apply in all other states. There are some signals sent here, both to the people throughout the country and to Statoil. To Statoil: free path, do as they please! To the people: do not wait for the Right and the Advance Party to do something to benefit the community’s oil and gas resources in the districts and local populations in the form of land-based activity! I disagree with the minister that there are only Roman decisions and approval decisions that determine whether a concession has been followed up or not. If so, all comment writing and debate in Stortinget will only be a game for the gallery – time-consuming and unvalued – even if there is a collection of magnification that gives clear leadership. In the case of legislation, it is precisely pre-worked for the laws, major debates and comments that are important to see when interpreting the legal text. I want to document my claims about Stortinget's statement, the positive willingness for Sogn and Fjordane to have a greater share of petroleum cake. I go into the handling of the Storting of Valemon. Here I'm quoting from the Inst. 376 S for 2010-2011: ‘The Committee assumes that the petroleum activity shall produce local/regional ring-effects. Valemon is located outside Sogn and Fjordane, a state that, in relation to the large off-shore resources, has so far received relatively small counting in terms of employment and value added. The Committee therefore considers it to be inter alia: it is important that the operational and base environment of Florø be further developed and that the scope of competence and functionality, including personnel transport, is ensured. This will be in favour of the region, but probably also in relation to the needs of Statoil and after several other companies have and are expected to get in the area.» For the sake of order I also quote from the letter of approval: ‘The approval shall be granted in accordance with the plans, comments, assumptions and conditions set out in Prop. 85 S Expansion and operation of Valemon and Innst. [[2010-2011]] [[2010-2011]] 376 S Configuration by the Energy and Environment Committee on the development and operation of Valemon.’» So there is no doubt that the Stortinget – regardless of the party – has been involved in building the Flora base, and that Sogn and Fjordane would have their fair share of the land activity. This is a clear expression for the handling of Visund, Gulfaks, Trolls and Veslefrik to name some fields. This has been said in the comments of committee management, in debates and is referred to in the letters of approval. If the Council of State were to be right in saying that there is nothing other than Romantic decisions that means something in Stortinget's handling, it would not make sense to refer to these documents. The only thing that would make sense in this case is to refer to the relevant decision points. I want to show you other examples that update the question of how the government will follow up on the majority of its expressed will, even when this does not appear in the Roman numerals. A very topical issue here is the electrification of Utsira. I refer to an interview in Technische Ukeblad on February 6, 2014, where the minister pointed out that this was not agreed in Stortinget. There the Christian People's Party Kjell Ingolf Rupstad says that he fears the outcome in the matter: ‘The sum total is correct that it is not a formal decision to electrify the height of Utsira. But if you're in doubt about what the Storting has meant, you've slept an hour." Left's Ola Elvesuen, who is the leader of the Swedish Energy and Environment Committee, was also not impressed by the response from Tord Lien in the same interview. He thinks it's pointless that the minister relies on whether the Storting has demanded or wanted electrification of the height of the Aussir, and says: ‘The will of greatness is that this be done, and that is what one must deal with.’ Is the Minister certain that the government has a large majority in the opinion that a Romantal decision is necessary before the government has to stick to its expressed will? Or has the minister turned around? Would the minister possibly turn around if he hadn't? And: Will the Minister take steps to meet the Stortinget's intention and will for growth at Florabasen and Sogn and Fjordane?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e644	Norway’s petroleum resources are the property of the Norwegian people and will benefit the entire community. The main objective of the petroleum policy is to facilitate the profitable production of oil and gas in a long-term perspective. Contributing to the highest possible value creation from fields and findings is an important task for the authorities and for me as Minister of Oil and Energy. Petroleum activity is Norway’s largest industry measured in value added, state income and export value. The petroleum industry employs around 43 000 people today, while more than 200000 can be directly or indirectly linked to the demand from the petroleum industry. There are examples across the country of ring-effects of petroleum activities, and 430 of the country's 439 municipalities have jobs related to industry. This is something I think we should be proud of. Florø, together with elsewhere in the country, has participated in the value creation and ringing effects of the petroleum sector. It is gratifying that there is an environment of competence in the municipality and that both Norwegian and international companies find it attractive to be in Florø. The government is engaged in good resource management and all profitable resources are used. Control of cost developments and efficient operation is necessary both to maintain activity over time and to maximise the value of our common oil and gas resources. Reduced costs are an important measure to increase extraction on Norwegian soil. By exploiting the full potential of resources, new business opportunities will open up to businesses in different parts of the mainland economy, businesses both inside and outside what we normally think of as the supplier industry. By exploiting the entire resource potential, we are best able to provide a basis for significant activity in the mainland economy for decades to come. It is the rightholders who, on a commercial basis, are responsible for the most efficient operation of the Norwegian base fields. This, I think, is a nobility for the way we manage our common petroleum resources. This also includes having control at cost level. It is the duty of operators to assess and implement both efficiency improvement measures at all stages of their operations. The cost of the base has grown sharply in the last decade. It is essential for the long-term value creation in Norwegian soil that cost developments are kept under control. The Government therefore signaled in the Sundvolden Declaration that it will focus on the future work to reduce the cost level of Norwegian pedestals, among others. by following up the recommendations of the Åm Committee. The costs of all parts of the establishment must be reviewed. In Report. St. 28 for 2010–2011, An industry for the future, is described as the cost challenge and the need to take new action to realise the full potential of resources on Norwegian soil. It was a message that was submitted by the previous government. The size joined this description. My main concern in the cost discussion is the creation of value on the base, but also the basis of activities on land. I'm concerned that we make the best possible use of every barrel and cubic metre, while exploiting all the profitable resources. Cost developments are particularly challenging for mature fields and for fields in the tail phase. The reduction of operational costs is essential in order to be able to extend the production and service life of these fields. Several of the fields in the northern part of the North Sea outside Sogn and Fjordane are just in this situation. Many mature fields on the base need large, new investments to extend their lifetime. The profitability of these late-stage projects is often very demanding. Good control of the costs of all parts of the business is therefore essential in order to ensure further operation and value creation in the future. In Sogn and Fjordane, a supply base was established some 30 years ago. Statoil is standing and has had too much of the activity on the base. Later, other actors have also established themselves here. The Flora base currently has about 500 jobs and has become significantly larger than the underlying ones when the base was established. Statoil decided last year to implement a conversion of the sailing pattern from the supply bases in South Norway to the platforms in the North Sea. These changes include: that some of today's supply activity is shifted from Florø to Mongstad. I understand that this is not popular in Florø. At the same time, the conversion has been calculated to provide annual cost savings in the hundreds of millions. According to Statoil, this is a business adaptation that will help to ensure extended operation and increased extraction from several of the fields on the base outside Sogn and Fjordane. The conversion will help to strengthen profitability and hence long-term value creation from these fields. Longevity also means the extension of activity on the base for a long time to come. This is good, also for Sogn and Fjordane. Longevity and maintenance of the level of activity in the future are necessary to achieve the highest possible value creation in the long term from our oil and gas resources. To achieve this, it is often necessary to adjust the way businesses operate in line with changed business assumptions. In order to obtain the best possible decision-making basis for such conversions, it is important that companies also have dialogue with the relevant local and regional authorities. The ministry is aware that in this case there has been such a dialogue over several years, and we encourage it to continue. The conversions planned by Statoil mean that they retain the supplies to Snorre and Visund from Fjordbase, but reduce the supplies to other fields from the same base. Some of the activity is thus continued, which is stepped down. At the same time, several compensatory measures aimed at the oil and gas environment in Sogn and Fjordane have been introduced. I am aware of the initiative being launched where Statoil cooperates with the supplier network Maritime Association and the incubator Fram Flora to look at the possibilities for the municipality of Flora and the rest of the county in the future. It is constructive cooperation measures that will promote innovation and development in the region. Statoil’s decision to develop Fjordbase as a logistics centre for feeding pipes, enterprise and supplier development, financial support for subsea training and apprenticeship participation are all good initiatives. This shows that the environment in Sogn and fjords will continue to take part in the creation and development of the petroleum industry. Statoil has had an active dialogue with stakeholders throughout the process of exploring the supply structure. The Ministry has also been informed of the matter from various sides. We have received information from several stakeholders in meetings in the department, which is also described by the interpellant. I do not see that there is a basis for me to intervene in this matter, but I encourage all the parties involved to constructive cooperation in the future. If we are to achieve the objective of profitable production in the long term, it is absolutely necessary that we have control at cost level. Efforts to reduce costs are very important in order to extend the field in service life and thus increase field extraction. I am sure that the relevant business community in Sogn and Fjordane, as elsewhere in the country, will also participate in the competition for assignments related to the business on a Norwegian base. Furthermore, I believe that local and regional authorities will support these actors and facilitate new business activities in the oil and gas industry as well. This is the way for this region to achieve increased value creation related to Norwegian petroleum activity, also in the sea areas outside Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e680	In fact, the minister did not answer any of the questions I asked. I'm not going to repeat them now. I assume that he will return to them in his closing post. I understand that the minister does not want to talk about the guarantees and promises of the election campaign, and why this is not followed up. But when the minister drew the economic card as the only salivating thing, it's in place to show and remind what a large number has actually said. It's going to be twice as strange when the minister doesn't want to get access to the strange bills from a government-owned company. The Minister has obtained an account from the signatures and others showing the environmental benefit — and shorter sailing time — by distributing it from a centre line between Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. In relation to Mongstad – which is an hour's run from Bergen – Florø is closer, and equally close to Statfjord and Gullfaks. Therefore, greater use of Florø must be reflected in lower logistic costs, not right, as Statoil claims in undocumented claims. Greater use of Florø would also be much more evidence of the clear political will expressed by the Storting over many years. By alerting the resuscitation pattern, Statoil will make an option that will clearly negatively affect the petroleum activity of Sogn and Fjordane, contrary to the signals given by the Stortinget, as recently, in the handling of Valemon. Does the Council of State think that it is a point to listen to the political will, even if it is not expressed by a Romantal decision? Will the Council of State require evidence from Statoil, a company in which the State owns two thirds of the axans, that such large savings as the company has presented cannot be achieved without a strong reduction in supply activity in Florø? Will the Council of State possibly bring in other remedial measures to follow up on the will of the Grand Duchy? The majority has also stated that majority decisions must be monitored by the government. I refer here to Document No. 14 for 2002–2003, Report to the Grand Duchy from the sample to investigate the control function of the Grand Duchy: ‘An important criterion of parliamentary scrutiny is whether government and administration have followed up the clearly expressed assumptions of the Storting, as expressed in committee or during the debates.’ Does the Minister not see that the government has to fulfill what the majority of the population says, and that comments and debates actually play out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e700	I note that the interpellant seems to take lightly on the cost level of the Norwegian base. In these areas, in particular, it is essential to control the level of costs, precisely in order to allow further development, increased oil extraction and tail production in these fields. So I don't think we should take it easy. It is a common responsibility for government and big business to ensure that the costs of production on a Norwegian base are reduced. With regard to this question that the Council of State is going to go into the costs, I tried in my post to explain that I believe it is a nobility mark for the Norwegian Petroleum Administration that it is the operators on the base who are responsible for making the commercial assessments, and to make decisions based on those assessments. And then it's our joint responsibility to create the framework conditions under which these commercial decisions are to be made. So I'm aware that there are other operators who are now on their way into the base of Florø. Of course, I am pleased, and I assume that the biggest representatives from Sogn and Fjordane are too. So I've explained several times, both in writing and orally, that the department has not identified conditions that make Statoil's decision require the involvement of the authorities. We consider that this conversion, which will contribute to the extension of the operation of several fields on the base, does not conflict with the petroleum law or with the conditions laid down by law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e711	Norway has had an adventurous development as an oil and gas nation for 40 years. Over the years, oil and gas revenues have largely contributed to Norway becoming one of the richest countries in the world, benefiting its inhabitants throughout the country. On the right, Norway is, and still is, a major producer and exporter of energy – primarily oil and gas, but also renewable energy. In this interpellation, the focus is on Statoil's activity in Florø in Sogn and Fjordane and their plans for a new sailing pattern between the bases of the West. Statoil made a decision in November last year, a few weeks after the election, to change the sailing pattern, where the base of Florø got all the supply to Snorre and Visund platforms, but lost the rest of the supplies to the platforms in the fields outside Sogn and Fjordane from Florø. Statoil has been working on these plans for several years, and it has our dialogue between Statoil, the municipality of Flora, the county council and the actors on the base through this process. For the oil environment in Sogn and Fjordane, it has been very important to increase the activity in the oil industry, thus creating jobs. Although a large part of the oil and gas production takes place directly off the coast of Sogn and Fjordane, only 1.3 pst has been populated. of employment before the petroleum industry in the country. Statoil is the largest player both on land and in the fields outside Sogn and Fjordane. That's why there's a lot of tension attached to what Statoil will do in the future. When the Statoil decision became known in the month of October/November, there was great disappointment both in the political environment in Sogn and Fjordane and in the supply industry and the oil environment. Several reports indicated that between 150 and 250 oil workplaces could disappear from Florø if Statoil’s plans were implemented. In addition, many jobs indirectly linked to the oil activity in Florø will disappear. Many have also said that Statoil violates concession terms when it reduces supply activity in Florø. This has been a jumping point, for example. in the election campaign and in time towards the decision of Statoil. This has been rejected. Another important element has been the handling of the newest development in the fields outside Sogn and Fjordane, the Valemon construction, where a mass accumulation in a note wanted to facilitate increased and new activity in Florø. All of this is part of the background because there have been strong reactions to Statoil's plans to reduce the sailing pattern from Florø. Statoil explains its cut in the activity in Florø that one has to reduce the cost level of all the activity in the company. Of course, this is important if we are to be able to extend the life span of the fields in production, obtain production from new fields and not least ensure profitable activity in the longer term. What is challenging in this matter is that Statoil has not been able to show in a good enough way that the savings to be made by the company by changing the sailing pattern could be made in other ways, such as: move activity to Florø. It's one of the main reasons for the reactions we've seen when we know that Sogn and fjords already have so little of the employment in the petroleum industry. As is now the case, changes are being made to the sailing pattern in Florø, and then it is very important that Statoil keep up the promise of new activity and greater participation in local development work. Both municipalities and businesses in Florø and the rest of Sogn and Fjordane expect this to happen. We see that the municipality has provided for increased activity with an extension of the area to the base. It is an important measure. The new subsea training started in Florø is also an important measure to recruit for the oil industry. We also see that the supplier industry is continuing to compete for supplies to the oil industry. In Sogn and Fjordane, the cost level is lower than many other places, and there is availability of stable labour and land. In addition, there are many competent companies that will be involved in the competition for commissions. All of this is positive, but there is also a clear expectation that Statoil, as the largest player on the Norwegian base, will also keep up the promise of new activity in Florø.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e734	What the interpellant says here is the facts. The size has expressed strong willingness through the concession conditions to create growth and activity at the Flora base. A technical or legal question cannot be resolved. I record that the Council of State takes lightly on the Stortinge's leadership, remarks, but puts emphasis on profitability. Both the Right and the Advance Party were very offensive to secure activity on the Flora base, and had it as their main slogans in the election campaign. The former government has seen strong growth on the Flora base, also by providing good quality. Last 17 August last year, Jan Tore Sanner said at a meeting in Eikefjord: ‘The base of Florø shall be further developed. You must believe me in my word, we shall not compromise the terms of the concession." After the new sailing pattern that Statoil announces, only Snorre and Visund will be provided from Florø. This will result in the loss of 150 years, plus the ringing effects that this activity creates. This happens, despite the fact that there are such political leaders for Gulfak as it says in St.meld. No 24 for 1983-1984: ‘An equivalent distribution will be made between the CCB and the base in Florø for supplies to Gullfaks’. [[...]] And... ‘ bulk and pipeline storage is added to Florø. [[...]] Furthermore, a division of the spare part stock between CCB and Fjordbase will be carried out [[...]] Int. S. No 97 for 1983-1984 to St.meld. No 24 for 1983-1984: ‘The Committee will underline the importance of the base for the municipality of Flora and the importance of being informed of the need to provide further activities to strengthen employment.’ There are also leads for the other fields currently served by Florø, Valemon, Troll and Veslefrik. The Storting has quite openly suggested that there should be considerable activity to the Flora base from the fields just off the coastline. Statoil disregards this in a new sailing pattern. I want to ask the Council of State: What are the comments from the World of Storting, if they are not followed up? And what ride will the minister use to accomplish his will? The Flora base has built up an environment of competence for many years. They have provided high-quality, high-quality services and, as the Council of State says, there has been a strong increase in activity over the last ten years – thank you for the active political work of the former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e768	Thank you to the representative Heggø, who is lifting this matter into the main hall. I find reason to stress that there is a comprehensive political environment in Sogn and Fjordane that has seen this matter high on the agenda, and I think it is important. Norwegian oil adventure is not without shadow pages. They include: We in the Left warn against in this Chamber several times, and there is every reason to be led was in view of the climate and in view of the bearer forces of the Norwegian economy. That being said, the Norwegian oil adventure also has some amazing sites, it's all because we call it an adventure – not just because one day it will be snip, snap, snip. The oil adventure has simply created enormous values for our country, not least along the coast of the West. Unfortunately, the value creation and the jobs that have followed the activity in the North Sea have not been evenly distributed along the coast. On the contrary, there has been an accumulation of land-based jobs in some areas, and perhaps in some cities in particular. In my state, Sogn and Fjordane, we have our hosts for a very large part of the oil business, but just off the coast. On land, it's got our tailors. One of the few exceptions has been Florø, one of which has gradually been able to build a robust environment on the base of the city. That Statoil now has to move important jobs away from Sogn and Fjordne's only proper petroleum environment, with the right emphasis has great anger and frustration in Sogn and Fjordane. Not only did the decision seem to be of little concern, but in my view it also shows a lack of gait. Statoil is a essentially state-owned company in a virtually privileged position. They have a social responsibility that we expect will be taken seriously. Part of that social responsibility is the consideration of value creation and jobs throughout the country. Unfortunately, the Florø environment has spoken to deaf ears against the Statoil Guide, and there has not been much help to pick up, either from the government of Stoltenberg or from the government of Solberg. This is what many people are disappointed about. I also think that what is happening in Sogn and Fjordne should be a cross of thought, not only for those who foreshadow that state ownership is excellent, but perhaps for those who stand on the stairs and loads to open new seas for petroleum activity. I definitely understand that the prospects for new jobs, for example: In Lofoten and the Westphalian, it may seem tempting to many, but then it may also be wise to look at Sogn and Fjordane – look at the lack of social responsibility that Statoil shows, see how little dripping on the clock on land, even if it rains on the priest out on the base, see how the workplaces end up in completely different places in the country, despite the fact that Sogn and Fjordne have opened up their sea areas to a large-scale petroleum industry. It is not such that this country will live on on petroleum industry for all years. Nor are Sogn and Fjordane dependent on such jobs. On the contrary, it is important to transform our economy into a greener and more resilient direction, both economically and environmentally. But the petroleum industry that we have been doing, and which we are going to be doing for many years to come, should not only benefit individual cities and some areas. It must also benefit the states which are host to the activity outside their coastlines. That's why I'm saying it's a shame to see Statoil moving important jobs away from an already vulnerable environment. I hope it's possible to think about one more time, and at least it's possible to think about further development of other services in Florø, so that one can move on to strengthening the good environment that's already there, not building it down for no reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e789	The history of Norwegian petroleum industry is in many ways an adventure. Oil and gas have contributed enormous revenues, jobs, businesses and ring-fences in our country. But unlike the adventures, this is not just about lucky and mild gifts from nature; it is not least about a conscious policy to build up competence and industry in Norway, and it must be said that it has been extremely successful. Today, the Norwegian supplier industry is competing in a global market, and the knowledge and supplies have become about as valuable as the natural resources themselves on which the industry is built. And now, when petroleum activity enters new areas, both in the North Sea, in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea, today's politicians have a heavy responsibility to ensure that new areas on land also have opportunities to build up skills, industrial environments and suppliers. It is both about ensuring activity and growth throughout the country and about ensuring the legitimacy of the oil and gas industries. The connection of the population to access new areas depends entirely on the fact that people on land are not only left with the risk, but also on the fact that it contributes to positive developments where they live. Another heavy responsibility of today’s politicians is to ensure that the activity of oil and gas on Norwegian soil is carried out in accordance with the climate commitments undertaken by Norway. The will of the people has been clearly expressed here in Stortinget, either by decision or by majority comments, both in the matter of the Flora Base, which is the starting point for today's discussion, and in matters such as Goliath, the Johan Castberg project and electrification of the Utzira Height. So you have to expect from this room that the Council of State will follow up the majority of the population in relation to the Flora base in concrete terms, as expressed in a cross-political way in the debate today, and that also in the further work he will not leave it up to the individual oil company to decide what kind of part of the coast that gets involved in the growth. I have to say that I am not at all reassured by the answer given by the oil and energy minister at the beginning of this interpellation debate, and he has actually managed to create uncertainty as to whether he will follow up the bulk of the population. Should the oil companies control everything themselves, as long as it is profitable? I would like to stress that profitability and cost-effectiveness are of course important considerations to take, but that cannot be the only consideration that the government takes when we are going to develop Norwegian petroleum industry further. It is also important to facilitate the local industry on land, as the Petroleum Act actually adds. Then I fully agree with the Council of State that the business community in Sogn and Fjordane and in and of itself also in Finnmark or other parts along the coast is fully capable of grasping the opportunities. But the prerequisite for them to seize the opportunity is that they get the opportunity, and the government has a heavy responsibility to ensure it. I perceive that the council here writes down that responsibility, and there is no good follow-up of the large number of people who have settled on several occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e802	It's been an interesting discussion and a lot of good articles. I have not received an answer to the specific questions I asked, nor am I happy to see how the Minister will come to his clear-cut will. I do not take lightly on cost control. But clear logical flaws in the arithmetic actually have to be investigated, and what I think is the minister's duty. In view of the understanding that only Roman figures decisions are to be applied by what the Storting says, what is done with observations in political debates will be completely worthless and reduced to a political theatre and time fatigue. I am concerned that this will have a devastating effect on public confidence in the political work of the National Assembly. Does the Council of State share that turbulence? Does it understand that concession terms only apply to Roman number decisions and letters of approval, why has a then systematic reference to handling in the Stortinget, settings and comments, if there is no real value? Minister Lien has also made it clear that there are governments in the past who are in debt and have not done their job well enough – among other things. in the meeting we had on the Sogn and Fjordane bench – of which there were not clear enough decisions in the letter of approval. But it is precisely in the letter of approval that there is a reference to the management of the committee and the big business and what has been said there. How, then, can one claim that the concession terms are met? How extensive would it be if everything were to be made a dot and a dot in the form of a decision? There's a lot of loose threads. At least I can promise the Minister one thing, that I will be snooping in all the loose threads, because I actually want to get to the bottom of this. The installation here today shows a broad political will from all the political parties, and then the representative Rotevatn has a very good point: what signal and incentive does this send with regard to new fields? When Statoil is then busy with cost control, I also expect a forward with Snorre 2040. I expect the minister to follow this closely, that the minister will turn around and follow up on a huge majority, and that this will benefit Florabasen and Sogn and the Fjords. Loneliness is an important consideration, but it is not the only consideration. One must also fulfill what the majority of people have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e815	Thank you to the interpellant, and thank you to those who have participated. The representative Helga Pedersen said that the story of Norwegian petroleum industry is an ‘adventure’. I fully agree with that. I'm also going to be out of this pulpit to say that in the development of this adventure, the Workers' Party has played an important role, along with most other parties in this Chamber, among others. by establishing this division of roles and the principle of commercial decisions in companies. Petroleum industry has created and will continue to produce ring-effects throughout the country, including in Sogn and Fjordane. The government is concerned that marine activities will have ring-fenced effects on land. It is important to make use of the resources to benefit the community for many, many years to come. Especially in the northern part of the North Sea, it is important to work actively on the level of costs so that we can make the important investments that need to be made for the continuation of projects. I am pleased that the representative Heggø raises the question about Snorre 2040. The government is very aware of this matter, and like the representative Heggø, we hope that Statoil will move forward with the investment in Snorre 2040. It will lead to sustained activity on the Flora base for many, many decades. I am also aware that new players have come to the Flora base. I'm glad that BG has to supply Knarr from the Flora base and GDF has to supply Gjøa from the same base. I am also aware that the local politicians in Flora have just decided to extend the area to Fjordbase, as evidenced by optimism and vision for the future. Of course, I'm very happy about that. Then I'm just going to finish: I think the Norwegian people have had and will have great confidence in the Norwegian petroleum management. But we haven't identified from the department the circumstances that make us intervene, or that require involvement by the authorities. We consider it so that this conversion, among other things. will allow for the development, increased extraction and maintenance of production in these fields for many decades to come, benefiting the nation of Norway, but also the petroleum environment in Sogn and Fjordane.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e827	That is when the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e841	As rapporteur, I present this matter and would like to say a little about the history first. SAS is the leading airline of Scandinavia and has as its primary purpose the provision of competitive passenger services based on the domestic market in Northern Europe. SAS, like many other airlines, has been through a very difficult situation in recent years. There has been a sharp decline in revenues for the entire European aviation industry, mainly due to market demand failure as a result of the economic downturn following the financial crisis in 2008. In addition, competition in the North European aviation market has increased significantly over the same period. These are factors that contributed to a large deficit in 2008 and 2009 and led the board of SAS to propose two equity extensions in 2009 and 2010 respectively. The State participated with its proportionate share in both equity extensions. The State’s proportionate share in the first equity increase was 709 million. NOK 582 million and SEK 582 million. kr in the other. In addition, the State supported the establishment of a convertible bond loan of up to 2 billion. Swedish krona in the last. The bond loan was issued in April 2010 and was SEK 1.6 billion. Swedish krona. The loan may be converted into shares in 2015 and, in the event of conversion, the State’s holding would be diluted to just under 13 p.m. The basis for the equity extensions was a new strategy, Core SAS. The strategy involves a total cost reduction of 7.8 billion. Swedish krona by 2012, increased bet on business travellers and a more streamlined organisation. The company is implementing the strategy according to the plan launched in the last equity extension in 2010. The majority has previously agreed that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, today the Ministry of Industry and Fisheries, may sell the shares of SAS in connection with an industrial solution and to reduce the State’s holding in SAS from today’s 14.3 p.m. down to 10 pst. in the case of future conversions of convertible loans into share capital of the company. But no authority has been given to the State to vote for the use of hybrid capital other than convertible loans. The present proposal on the possibility of obtaining hybrid capital and any necessary changes to the company’s statutes requires, on a case-by-case basis, at least two thirds of the acceptance of the number of shares represented and votes cast at the general meeting. This proposition now empowers the Ministry of the General Assembly to vote in favour of proposals to empower the Board of Directors to acquire hybrid capital, including the issue of preference shares and convertible loans. It is assumed that, overall, such instruments cannot bring the State’s share of voting shares below 7,5 pst. The Norwegian State shall not invest in the relevant instruments. SAS has a credit rating that contributes to the company meeting tight conditions and limited access to ordinary debt financing. The company's soundness has deteriorated as a result of accounting write-downs related to amended accounting rules. Therefore, as long as the owners do not wish to add new equity to the company, it is necessary to provide room to look for alternative sources of capital. Now flexibility is given to the company to make use of different forms of funding, because it increases potential access to capital and helps to improve the overall conditions that can be achieved on the financing side. It is an overall committee that is presenting this position – and now it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e864	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e870	Then it seems that the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e958	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e968	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e1030	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e1040	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-02-13.ana.ud1374e1070	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
