ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e58	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositor Harald Hove died on 21 July, 65 years old. He represented Left and Hordaland and met as a permanent representative between 1997 and 2000. He was a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and was a member of the Swedish Government's delegation to the Nordic Council. He was also a member of the European Committee. Howe was an educated lawyer from the University of Bergen. The first years after the study, he was first amanuensis at the University of Bergen, before starting his own law firm in 1989. His special field was public law and child protection, and he was co-author of several investigations and subject books in these areas. He was also a senior lecturer at the University of Bergen. Hove was active in Left and Norwegian policies at all levels. He met three periods in the county council, several years as head of the county council, and for many years he was an active municipal politician in the home town of Bergen. In addition, he had a wide range of organizational responsibilities, including: He was the leader of the Left Hordaland for four years. He was also the leader or member of a variety of programme committees, as well as having a number of political positions in the Left. During and after the election campaign in 1993, he played an invaluable role as a central adviser and actor. The result of this work led to Norway's oldest party being again represented at Stortinget, after two periods outside. Howe also had a number of public offices and set up among others. as a member of the Training Committee and the Optional Committee. He was a member of the sample to investigate the control function of the Grand Duchy in 2001–2002. In 2001–03, he chaired the Government-appointed Public Service Committee. Here he combined his political commitment to publicity and transparency with high-level legal knowledge. The selection setting was mainly adopted by Stortinget and is largely still valid. In 2008-2009, he led the adoption committee, which was to carry out a comprehensive review of the adoption policy. Howe had a great commitment to democracy, tolerance and combating injustice, both nationally and internationally. He had a special ability to illuminate a case from several sides. At Stortinget, the qualities that gave any debate constructive input and wise consideration came to their absolute right. Harald Hove was a warm and social man, who spent his whole life caring for the people around him. He was gifted with a rare ability to make the interlocutor feel in the center, and he had a contagious and good mood. Hove was a person with great work and working capacity, and he had great joy of life. We bring peace to Harald Hoves' memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e75	The representatives of Marianne Aasen, Gunnar Gundersen, Geir S. Tuskedal, Sveinung Rotevatn and Svein Roald Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Rasmus Hansson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e95	On behalf of the big business representatives Eva Kristin Hansen, Åsmund Aukrust and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal to further develop the sustainable development indicators.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e100	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e112	This must be the longest title in the government, the president believes. The President then gives the floor to the Council of State, Vidar Helgesen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e117	When people's desire for freedom torn the Berlin Wall 25 years ago, it changed Europe – and Norway. We did not know in November 1989 what direction development would take. Dramatic changes are easier to understand in retrospect. Today, we are left with a historic era in Europe. But now a people's desire for freedom is being confronted with military means of power, and other countries are being subjected to provocations and borders. Europe is encircled by instability and conflict both in the east and in the south and is also marked by major internal problems. We do not know what Europe looks like in 25 years' time, but we know that heavy Norwegian interests are at stake, and we know that no cooperation will be more important for Norway's future than cooperation with the EU. This is why Norwegian foreign policy begins in Europe. The government’s strategy for cooperation with the EU in the period 2014–2017 shows that there is a strong convergence between what is important for Norway and what is important for the EU. EU and EEA issues concern large parts of Norwegian society and all policy areas. We have set up the European Committee of Governments to ensure a strong anchoring and coordination of EU/EEA matters between relevant Councils and ministries on the main European policy issues: What does it take to create growth and employment? How do you contribute to the development of a digital single market and a modern digital economy that promotes both industry and consumer considerations? How can Norwegian business and research environments be among the most important to further develop future innovation and competitiveness? How will Europe meet the migration challenges? How are we going to build Europe's common security in a more dangerous time? These are important questions for Norway and Europe, and in the coming months the EU will work to provide its response. The new management of the EU is now in the process of designing its work programme. It's important for Norwegian interests that we input into this process. Four innovations in the new Commission configuration are worth noting. Firstly, a new position will be created as the first Vice-President, including among others: responsibility for better regulation and less bureaucracy. This is also central to Norwegian eyes: a few months ago, EU legislation became no. 10000 incorporated into the EEA Agreement. It tells us that we deserve the EU to adopt smart rules. We support President Juncker's statement of intent that the European Union should be big on the big things, less on the small things. Secondly, seven Vice-Presidents have been given a coordinating responsibility for major policy areas. With leading European politicians responsible, we can expect more initiative in areas that are also important to Norway. Thirdly, we see new portfolio formations in areas that are particularly important for Norway. One Commissioner will look at energy and climate policies in the context and cooperate with one Vice-President on the Energy Union, and with another on sustainable development. The environment is combined with maritime issues and fisheries policy. Fourthly, Commissioner Johannes Hahn, who has been given responsibility for neighbourhood policy and enlargement negotiations, will also have a role in relation to relations with the EFTA/EEA countries. Hahn will therefore be an important contact for Norway. It remains to be seen how these organisational approaches will turn out in practice. It is important and appropriate to see different policy areas in context. However, the new structure removes the EU even further from the structure of the EEA Agreement, which is based on the EU's old pillar structure. The EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of Norwegian European policy, but it is a cornerstone of a building that is still undergoing transformation. In order to keep the agreement alive, we need to establish good contacts both with the new Commissioners and with the new European Parliament and to maintain good bilateral contact with central EU countries. Our extensive cooperation with Germany is important. We are now also stepping up cooperation with Poland. The government wants to use Nordic cooperation and Nordic-Baltic cooperation more actively in European policy. The Baltic dimension will not least be important during the forthcoming Latvian Presidency of the European Union. In a Europe surrounded by uncertainty and with major internal problems, the Nordic-Baltic region is a success story. We have shown the ability to reform in good times and build strong and sustainable economies. We have an economic and political community of values that is also a practical working community. The new security policy situation reinforces the importance of Nordic-Baltic cooperation also in the field of foreign and defence policy. The Nordic Prime Ministers have stated that they want closer coordination on European issues. The Ministers for Cooperation have adopted a reform of the Nordic Council of Ministers to strengthen cooperation on international issues, including the EU/EEA. On Norwegian initiative, during the Nordic Council's session in October, we held the first Nordic European Ministerial Meeting. We agree that the Nordic region has important contributions to European cooperation. This applies not least to contributing to the promotion of growth, employment and innovation. At the EU Summit on 18 December, it is expected that Heads of State or Government will be presented with a proposal for a comprehensive investment package. We are working to ensure that these investments are as consistent as possible with our interests, not least because energy infrastructure and renewable energy investment are expected to become important elements of the package. In addition, President Juncker has set the objective for the Commission to present in April 2015 a comprehensive package to lead to a digital single market. This will also be an important future effort for Norway, which will become part of this market through the EEA Agreement. When Europe needs new growth, it is not least because there is considerable economic and social inequality within the EU. The EEA financial instruments contribute to reducing disparities in Europe. Youth unemployment and weak economic development characterise many of the recipient countries. In particular, the government wants to strengthen the focus on education and research, innovation, entrepreneurship, climate, energy and environment during the next programming period. After a longer stay in the negotiations on new EEA funds, contacts have recently been established between the parties. The distance between the parties is still very high. Negotiations on new EEA funds are taking place in parallel with negotiations on market access for fish. Norway has traditionally achieved only small improvements in market access through negotiations with the EU. For the government it is essential to ensure better market access for the maritime food industry. We have underlined to the EU that the continuation of EEA contributions requires satisfactory solutions for fish. We are now facing another process of negotiation with the EU. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement obliges the parties to progressively increase trade in agricultural products within the framework of the respective agricultural policy of the Parties. The EU has now adopted its mandate for the negotiations, and we expect them to be launched shortly after the new year. The new round of negotiations ends in an agreement from 2012, when Norway agreed to an EU request to prepare a new Article 19 round. The EU requirements were a direct consequence of the conversion of the Norwegian customs regime which took place shortly after the end of the previous Article 19 round. We expect, in the context of comprehensive and offensive EU requirements, requirements that are likely to affect sensitive products for Norway. The government will start work on a Norwegian offer as soon as we have received the EU's demands on the table. In its preparatory work, the government will also seek to safeguard consumer interests and aspects that can enhance the diversity of the Norwegian food market. One of Norway's biggest future efforts is the investment we will make by 2020 with nearly 26 billion. kr in the largest research and innovation programme in history, Horizon 2020. The total budget is 600 billion. kr over seven years. This gives us access to comprehensive resources and world-leading networks that strengthen our own research, education and innovation efforts. This year, two Nordics have been awarded the Nobel Prize in Medicine. Their success and the national pride we know about that success began with two sharp brains, EU networks and EU funds. If we are to take advantage of the opportunities of Horizon 2020, it requires an active effort from the Norwegian side. In proposals for the 2015 government budget, we have proposed spending 115 million. kr more on measures to ensure Norwegian participation. The long-term plan for research and higher education provides for a further stepping up of actions towards 2018. The objective of the EEA Agreement itself is to ensure predictable and as level playing field throughout the EEA territory. This is important for Norwegian business. Therefore, the government gives high priority to the active and effective integration of new EU internal market legislation into the EEA Agreement. We have achieved a clear reduction in the lag in the harvest, and our objective is further reductions in the future. However, Norway’s ability to deal with the aftermath is only one part of the job. We rely on our EFTA partners and the EU to do the same. So we're actively working towards them. A key example here is the third EU postal directive. From the Norwegian side, we are prepared to include the directive in the EEA Agreement, and the Ministry of Transport has sent draft new postal laws and regulations to be consulted. However, we have not yet been able to incorporate the Directive into the EEA Agreement due to delays in the process on the Icelandic side. The same applies to the Paediatric Regulation, where a central objective is to promote the development and authorisation of medicinal products for children. Here too, agreement has been reached with the EU on a solution, but the issue is currently unresolved on the Icelandic side. Keeping the EEA Agreement up to date is important, but the government will go even further in its efforts against barriers to trade. Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are leading a country-by-country initiative to improve the EU's internal market. The aim is to reduce concrete barriers to trade in the framework of current legislation. Norway will join this initiative. We want to be a leading country in the further development of the internal market. A fundamental prerequisite for the internal market is the free movement of persons. If Europe is to regain competitiveness, more mobility is needed in the labour market. Here is Norway in the top of Europe. Well 7 pst. of all employed persons in Norway are labour immigrants from EU/EEA countries. While the free movement is an overall EU principle, welfare systems are nationally specific. At this point of intersection, questions sometimes arise, among other things. related to the well-being benefits that may be taken out of the country and to the benefits of family members. This has become a political discussion in several European countries, and individual cases have also been assessed by the European Court of Justice. Recently, in the Dano case, an important fundamental clarification came from Germany that immigrants who only move to receive social assistance cannot claim financial support for living in their country of residence. This is in line with our vision. EU agencies and supervisory bodies play an increasingly important role both in policy-making and in the implementation of EU legislation. Following the financial crisis, the EU created new financial supervision. These have been given the competence in exceptional cases to take decisions either against the national supervisory authorities of the members or against market actors. Such supranational authority is an important rear-view rice in order to avoid individual countries or market players placing financial stability at risk. Where a legal act involves the transfer of powers, we need to carefully assess the Basic Law’s limits on the transfer of powers to international organisations. In some past cases, the size has given consent to assigning powers to EU agencies and supervision. This has been done in accordance with the Basic Law, Section 26, as the authority has been considered to be of little intervention. In cases where there is more than a small intrusive transfer of powers to a body with which Norway is affiliated, consent from the Stortinget is required by a three-quarters majority, cf. The Constitution § 115. It has been necessary only once; at the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. The Ministry of Justice’s Legal Affairs department has concluded that some of the competences of financial regulators must be considered to be more than negligible. It has therefore been necessary to find a solution for the relationship between the EEA/EFTA States and the structure of the EU financial supervision, without transferring the Authority from Norway to the EU financial supervision. Following intensive work over several years, finance ministers in Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein agreed in October with EU finance ministers on principles for adapting the role and tasks of EU financial supervision to the EEA Agreement. The financial supervision model implies that binding decisions addressed to Norway or Norwegian operators are taken by the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA. We are pleased that the solution implies that supranational decisions are taken by our own body in the EFTA pillar. Cooperation between the EU and the EFTA Surveillance Authority is envisaged, with mutual participation in each other’s preparatory work and decision-making processes. Decisions to be taken by the EFTA Surveillance Authority will be based on a draft EU financial supervision. It has been important to find a good solution, in the interests of important interests in the Norwegian financial industry and in the interests of Norwegian business, and to continue good cooperation in the supervision of financial markets in Europe. The government will add up to a thorough examination of the matter in Stortinget. The EFTA countries are now also negotiating participation in the EU Energy Regulators Agency Acer and the telecommunications body BEREC. These are also very important areas for Norway and Norwegian business. We're doing a lot of work here to get the best possible solutions. The relationship between the EEA/EFTA countries and Acer is negotiated as part of a third energy market package. ACER is an agency for cooperation between national energy regulators and is central to the development of new internal energy market legislation. In addition, the Agency has been given decision-making powers in some areas. However, decision-making competence is more limited than that of EU financial supervision. In the event of disagreements relating to cross-border infrastructure and certain technical issues, Acer may take decisions if the national regulatory authorities have not reached an agreement or if they wish to have ACER take decisions. The Government is working here for a two-pillar solution, that is to say a solution whereby any decisions against the Norwegian regulator, which is Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, are to be taken by an EFTA body. BEREC is an independent, advisory body of the European Union in the field of electronic communications. It consists of national supervisory authorities from EU countries. Here we disagree with the EU on the participation rights of EEA/EFTA countries. The EU considers that the regulation itself clarifies the issue by granting third countries only an observer role. The regulation on BEREC is now subject to revision. The Government wishes to amend the Regulation in order to grant full participation rights to EEA/EFTA countries, with the exception of voting rights. These three examples show that the role, functions and powers of the EU agencies and their oversight differ significantly. The Norwegian starting point is that we will negotiate each case on the agency relationship separately, depending on the role and tasks of the individual agency. It is in Norway’s interest that Europe is characterised by political stability and security on the one hand and economic dynamism and growth on the other. Today, unfortunately, progress is going in the wrong direction on both fronts. Europe is challenged both from the outside and within and by both short-term crises and long-term trends. One of the biggest is the climate and energy challenge. It is closely linked to the issue of European competitiveness – and Norwegian competitiveness. We see that many countries take drastic steps to change. Germany’s ‘Energywende’ is a major spin-off operation, which is significant beyond the borders of the country. In Germany it is assumed that 50 pst. electricity supply will come from renewable energy in only 10 years. EU climate and energy policy sets the direction and pace of the transition to a low-carbon society in Europe. For this reason, the government has placed great emphasis on – and considerable effort in – contributing to the EU's work on the 2030 climate and energy framework. The decision of the October European Council is good for Europe and largely in line with Norwegian positions. That the EU has set itself a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 pst. by 2030, is an important message to the outside world before the next Paris Summit. Norway argued that the EU should choose one ambitious target for greenhouse gas emission reductions. The EU chose several targets, but the emission target is in a special position, because only this target will be translated into binding targets for Member States. We also worked for a tighter system of emission allowances. We are pleased that the EU has adopted restrictions, but we will be working for further reforms that can contribute to a significantly higher quota price. It will provide incentives for the development and use of new technologies. We agree with the EU that a well-functioning internal energy market requires increased infrastructure construction, not least across borders, and further liberalisation of both electricity and gas markets. This will contribute to better use of energy resources and to increased energy security in Europe. CO2 capture and storage is crucial if the 2-degree target is to be achieved, and we have argued strongly for further efforts on CCS in Europe. We are therefore very pleased to be able to provide support for the further development and demonstration of technology. Ideally, we would have a decision that new coal-fired power stations should not be built without CCS. From the Norwegian side, we are willing to assess how EEA funds can help to advance the technology development of CCS further in Europe. Norway plays a key role in improving EU energy security. We are a large supplier of oil and gas, but we are also a large renewable nation. The interconnection of European power markets is important, and last autumn we have given a clear signal for the construction of electric power stations to the United Kingdom and Germany. In addition, Norwegian companies supply gas with Norwegian ships to the new LNG terminal in Lithuania and thus contribute to both infrastructure development and energy security. As a relevant and constructive actor in European climate and energy policy, Norway has been invited to participate in the Green Growth Group. The group is made up of the EU countries with the most offensive climate policy, becoming a new arena to promote Norwegian interests and views. Energy security has become more important in the last year due to developments in security policy. A more self-reliant Russian foreign policy and a significant increase in Russian military capacity have led to greater unforeseeableness in Europe. The most dramatic expression of this is that Russia has used military instruments to achieve policy objectives. They have annexed the territory of another country and use military strawmen to destabilise their neighbouring country. This is old-fashioned power policy, which must not be allowed to succeed in Europe. The Russian behaviour has been met with firmness and coherence on the fundamental principles of international relations – from the Ukrainian authorities, the EU, NATO, the United States and Norway. Political, economic and military instruments have made it clear to Russia that these acts are not accepted. They represent clear violations of international law. Russia’s increasing unforeseeability is also demonstrated by provocations and sovereignties towards countries in our neighbourhoods. In particular, in the Baltic region there is a great deal of concern about Russia's actions, and these countries are therefore calling for stronger EU responses to Russia. The government emphasises close political contact with the Baltic countries, and Norway also participates in sedative measures in the eastern Member States of NATO. Our message to Russia is that we want cooperation in accordance with international rules and principles. As a neighbouring country, we continue practical cooperation with Russia in areas such as joint fisheries management, search and rescue and nuclear safety. Cooperation at local and regional level in the north, environmental cooperation and people-to-people cooperation are also sought further. The restrictive measures imposed against Russia by the EU, Norway and other countries clearly indicate that Russia’s actions are unacceptable. At the same time, if Russia changes its policy, the door to future downscaling will not be closed. In the Council of State on 10 October, we decided to step up the Norwegian measures. The bodies of the majority were briefed in advance, and the measures follow the same model as the EU. The EU is now considering including several persons in the restrictive measures. We see that the restrictive measures and the Russian import restrictions are demanding and sometimes painful for the businesses of Norway and the EU. However, we do not miss that, since the option – not to do anything – opens up far more gloomy perspectives for Europe and for European security. For the EU and Norway, Ukraine is a test piece of European integration and cooperation. Here, the EU has to know its responsibilities. The conclusion of the EU association and free trade agreement with Ukraine is fundamental to its European integration. However, it is also fundamental to the credibility of European cooperation and to the principle that a country must choose its own international relationship. Norway shall support and contribute to Ukraine closer integrated into Europe. Two days ago, I attended when the Prime Minister visited Ukraine — the first Norwegian Prime Minister’s visit to the country ever. The Prime Minister presented a package of increased Norwegian efforts in several important areas, such as energy efficiency and energy sector reform, rule of law reform and good governance, adaptation to European legislation and nuclear safety. In addition, increased humanitarian aid will help to remedy a difficult situation for hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons who are now facing a cold winter. In these areas of cooperation, Norway will contribute to the necessary reforms in Ukraine, not least through enhanced Europeanisation, in line with what the Ukrainian people want. We start a dialogue and project cooperation with Ukrainian authorities on the Europeanisation of Ukrainian administration, where we will contribute from Norwegian side to our experience of EEA cooperation and other agreements with the EU. With this, we are making important contributions to supporting the elections of the Ukrainian people. We do this because it is in our interest for Ukraine to succeed; and we do it because we know that if Russia's behaviour wins, we will have a much more dangerous Europe. The crisis in Ukraine has dominated the media this year. However, we must not forget countries such as Moldova and Georgia, which are also part of the EU's neighbouring country policy. These countries too have ‘frozen’ conflicts in their own territory as a result of Russia’s behaviour. These are conflicts that threaten stability in the region. These countries, as well as these conflicts, are the test pieces of EU integration policy. EU association agreements with Moldova and Georgia are important. We hope that both countries will continue their European integration course, and we will do our best to ensure that this integration policy succeeds. We are significantly increasing our support for Moldova and continuing a significant commitment to Georgia. Security policy is back in our continent and has a new dimension. The EU has shown itself to be a security policy actor, in liaison with the United States and NATO. This follows, on the one hand, from the fact that the Western military intervention in the Ukraine conflict has not been the current policy – the EU has had important tools and instruments – and, on the other hand, from a misguided policy on the part of the EU, despite internal tensions and different approaches initially. It is interesting and positive that Germany has taken clear leadership in the management of the Ukraine crisis. In addition, Poland is an important player, including: with the so-called Weimar cooperation between Germany, France and Poland as the central arena. A little coordinated policy between the major EU countries has previously reduced the EU's weight in foreign and security policy. The management of the crisis in Ukraine shows a stronger willingness and ability to improve policy coordination between central EU countries and with EU cooperation as a framework. A more powerful role for the EU in foreign and security policy is both positive and challenging for Norway. Formality is not part of EEA cooperation in foreign and security policy. However, Norway, as a NATO member with good bilateral relations with European countries and closely integrated with the EU, has the best prerequisites for participating and contributing to the development of the EU’s security policy identity and role. The EU's work on a common security and defence policy – the CSDP – is constantly developing. It is in Norway’s interest to further develop cooperation with the EU in this area and to contribute to good cooperation between the EU and NATO. We will contribute to the EU's battle groups through the Swedish-led Nordic Battlegroup in 2015. Our cooperation agreement with the EU allows Norway to participate in the European Defence Agency’s programmes, projects and other initiatives in the field of military capacity development. Norway makes use of this possibility and is a significant contributor to the Agency’s work in a number of areas. Norway has called for more frequent and more effective cooperation arrangements with third countries. The EU has followed up, and we see a positive change in the form of an invitation to meetings. Meetings between the EU and non-EU NATO countries, as well as the candidate countries, are a positive element in our dialogue. Security policy dialogue has also been established at the level of the State Secretary and the level of office between Norway and the EU’s external service. Our enhanced interaction with the EU in security and defence policy is important, not just because of the security policy situation in the east. South of Europe, a belt of weak states has grown from West Africa via the Middle East to Central Asia. This leads to instability and armed conflicts that rapidly spread across national borders and risks destabilising entire regions. The most acute example is the expansion of ISIL in Syria and Iraq. Several EU countries participate as Norway in the ISIL coalition. The arrows appear to point towards a more active foreign and security policy in the region by the EU and EU countries. This is a development we should welcome on the Norwegian side. Then time will show whether the EU has the power to coordinate policies and actions and act as a single actor. Violent extremism also challenges Europe. Too many young people are radicalized, emigrated as foreign warriors and claim – erroneously – Islam as the basis for bestiality and violence glory. The threat of terrorism is real, and we must ensure our social security. We have to see what we're doing out there, and what we're doing here at home, in context. We need to mobilise our common values in Europe, and we need to address the challenges in a balanced and wise way. Norway can contribute here in Europe, not least with the commitment shown in the active, moderate and open Muslim communities, which are in a clear majority among Norwegian Muslims. Increased migration into Europe from the southern neighbourhood is also partly a consequence of war, conflict and instability. In the Mediterranean, the situation is an ongoing crisis. The Italian Presidency of the European Union has played an important role in tackling the large migration flows. At the EU Justice and Home Affairs Council in October, there was broad agreement that efforts had to be concentrated on three pillars: cooperation with third countries, better monitoring of the external border and action in particularly vulnerable Member States. From the Norwegian side, we support this approach and will contribute in the three areas. In the long term, migration challenges can only be solved in close cooperation with the countries from which migrants come and travel. Norway has long and strong traditions of assistance to many of these countries. We will focus on continuing this in close cooperation with the EU and its Member States. European cooperation and solidarity are also challenged on this issue by the fact that countries in the south and north face so different aspects of migration challenges. Southern Europe sees an urgent need to strengthen the capacity of reception systems, while countries in the north feel that disproportionate numbers of immigrants end up as asylum seekers there. For Norway, it is important that migrants arriving in Europe are received and treated in line with EU legislation. If not everyone who comes is registered, it is impossible to ensure the proper processing of applications. With large numbers of darkness, it will also be difficult to achieve flexibility and solidarity internally in Europe. The future of the EU is not only shaped by external pressure. The EU also has internal challenges to address. And the way the EU meets these challenges has consequences for Norway. In the elections to the European Parliament in May, we saw alarming trends in several EU Member States. Additional and xenophobic parties with different degrees of EU scepticism have emerged in many countries. Several of them have a basic attitude that goes across common European values. These parties will not be able to form a single force in the European Parliament, but they will shape the debate climate in Europe in the coming years. It is illustrative that there were European parliamentarians from these groups who voted against Ukraine’s association agreement with the EU, and many of them express strong sympathy with President Putin’s policy. Hungary should be mentioned in this context. In recent years, we have witnessed a concentration of power in Hungary that undermines democratic values and the rule of law. The EEA funds for Hungary have been suspended since May due to breaches of agreements concluded. Hungary has shown little willingness to find solutions that could lead to suspension. In August Norway asked the EU Member State to respond to developments in Hungary. Some countries have responded, but we should have liked to see a clearer response from the European Union. In some cases, the progress of the additional forces is also linked to the economic crisis in Europe. The EU economy is still not up-to-date. The EU has too weak a capacity to compete in the global economy. This is also a security policy, because the weak economy has implications for investment in security and defence in European countries. Europe is challenged by the gradual shift of the world’s economic centre of gravity towards Asia. Several of the emerging regional major acts increase their political influence while increasing their defence expenditure. This challenges the US and Europe's position in international policy. The development underlines the great need for structural reforms both in individual countries and at Community level. Without further progress in the reform process in the euro area countries, all economic developments are at risk. A weak and uneven growth in the euro area from the spring of 2013 has again surfaced, with negative trends and uncertainties in several countries. A worrying feature is that investment continues to decline as a share of GDP. Industrial production has grown little in 2014. The availability of credit from banks is still weak and lending to households and enterprises is falling. Many countries are struggling with excessive indebtedness, which limits the economic space for action. Inflation remains low in the euro area. In some EU countries, prices are now falling. It's worrying. Since interest rates cannot be set below zero, a sustained period of very low inflation will limit the ability of monetary policy to adequately stimulate the economy. But there are also positive moves. Budgetary consolidation in the Member States and extensive measures taken by the European Central Bank have helped to make financial markets in the euro area appear more stable. Countries that have received assistance from the EU and the IMF during the crisis may again borrow in the markets. The main picture is that unemployment is still high. Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland have the highest rates of unemployment and youth unemployment. But unemployment also falls most in these countries, and they are expected to grow economically well above the euro area average. Despite the mixed picture, the main impression is that the EU and, in particular, the euro area are still struggling economically. Of course, this is not good for the European Union, and that is not good for Norway. If Europe is to be able to assert itself economically and politically in a global context, it needs to be strengthened and more forward-looking economic policy. In this global picture, it is not difficult to see the strategic importance of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement, TTIP, which the EU and the United States are now negotiating. Today, the EU and the United States account for half of the world’s total GDP and 30 pst. of all trade in the world, and they are Norway’s second most important trading partners. Free trade over the Atlantic can be an important vitamin injection for both the transatlantic region and the entire world economy. An agreement can also help raise global standards and make progress in the important multilateral trade negotiations. Increased growth and purchasing power resulting from a trading and investment partnership will also serve the Norwegian economy. At the same time, the competitive situation of Norwegian fish exports is likely to deteriorate. Norway is not free to export fish to either the EU or the United States. An agreement may also have consequences for Norwegian agriculture. It is too early to decide how Norway should deal with any agreement. We have started work on identifying and designing Norwegian positions in areas that are important to us. These positions will promote government vis-à-vis both the US and the EU. The EU has established that health, environmental and food safety standards should not be lowered as a result of a transatlantic trade and investment agreement. Norway and the EU have common interests here. Norway, together with the other EFTA countries, has a trade policy dialogue with the United States, where TTIP is one of the topics discussed. The European Commission has also agreed to enter into a dialogue with Norway and the other EEA countries on the areas of negotiation concerning the EEA Agreement. Last night, I discussed TTIP with the EU Trade Commissioner, Cecilia Malmström. She focused on openness and good dialogue with Norway. In addition, we address Norwegian interests and views in bilateral talks with the United States and EU countries. TTIP is one of several expressions of the need for both Europe and Norway to change into a world where Europe is under pressure. We're going to compete with a Turkey with 51 hours of work week, a China with companies that are constantly challenging established business models, an India that's at the forefront of developing new technological solutions, African countries that are increasingly investing in education, and a United States that's hard on brand construction. Norway and the other European countries need to act to avoid losing in the long term in global competition. We need to focus on research and development, we need to increase investment, we need to ensure sound macroeconomic policies, and we need to make major structural changes. Implementation and enforcement will be crucial. New ideas must be thought, and new measures must be taken, even if they are demanding. That is what this policy is all about. Whether the EU will make the right choices remains to be seen. Anyway, we have to make sure that we change in time. We have to make difficult choices today to equip Norway for the future. The EU is Norway's economic home market. That is why we depend on Europe to succeed in global competition. Europe is shaping our security. Our cooperation with European allies is becoming increasingly important. NATO and the United States expect more from Europe. When Europe experiences increased uncertainty, these expectations do not diminish. Europe is the foundation of our cultural heritage and our values. A stronger European economy and more robust European security and defence policies are important to safeguard these values. But these values are also in themselves crucial for our economy and security. Democracy and the rule of law provide the basis for economic freedom, for diversity and for the spread of power, for well-being, for a society that is durable and that is defended by its inhabitants. We got that demonstrated in 1989. We also have to remember that today, 25 years later.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e332	The President will propose that the presentation of key EU and EEA matters by the Council of State be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e346	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e353	The government has an ambition to renew, simplify and improve Norway. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation therefore proposes legislative changes to facilitate, in the main, simpler, more efficient and more flexible handling of proposals for regulatory plans. The hearing bodies are broadly in favour of the amendments and there is an overall committee which supports the government's proposal. The government keeps it promised. It promised residents and businesses that the Planning and Building Act would be easier to deal with. We promised to facilitate faster planning and increased housing construction, and we promised to help keep construction costs down. The first step taken by the government when it joined was to bring together the Planning and Building Act, which had previously been divided between two departments, into the same department, namely the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. In doing so, we gathered the professional competence under one political leadership. It ensures complete, coherent and effective work. Now we propose to renew the Planning and Building Act in order to simplify and improve the planning and construction processes. We need to build up unnecessary bureaucracy to build tomorrow's cities and businesses. The government is therefore proposing legislative changes that will result in a reduction in the use of resources in planning both for municipalities and businesses, which will contribute to simplification and provide more flexible impact assessments, and will speed up the handling of objections. The main single proposal is to replace the five-year deadline to start the implementation of retail regulation based on private plan proposals with an assessment after 10 years. This has been requested by both municipalities and private action holders. In addition, there will be a new guide on the time limits to be applied when considering draft plans. This will help to improve the efficiency of the procedure and speed up the decision-making process, while at the same time ensuring the proper functioning of the opposition institute. I'm glad the government is taking these steps today to create tomorrow's climate-friendly cities. The report The New Climate Economy, which came in September, underlines the importance of this. The report recommends that several of the world’s cities do as Oslo has done in recent years, build higher and denser, expand and build along existing collective veins and centres and streamline land use in and around large cities. This is how we can minimise the transport needs and the use of cars in cities. The Oslo region alone will grow with over 390,000 inhabitants over the next 30 years. In the Bergens region, there is a need for 70 000–80 000 new dwellings over the next 20 years. The government’s proposal is one of several important steps taken to deal with this population growth. Step by step, this government is building a new and better housing policy. The changes in this proposition are part of this work. The government has, among other things: increasing the framework for Youth Housing Savings, making it cheaper to build, reducing the time it takes to build, removing time thieves and doing something about the rules that affect debt financing for those entering the housing market. In short, the government is solving important challenges today that will help us to equip Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e374	Although the Left disagreed with the change the government did, by taking the plan department from the Ministry of the Environment and including it under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, we should now deal with the proposals that are coming. And the suggestions in this case are good, right, with one comment that is important, and that I will come back to. Firstly, the five-year deadline for private proposals introduced in 2008 will finally be changed. On the left, we are very pleased that this is now not only being extended to ten years, but also being simplified by requiring an assessment and documentation of whether the plan is sufficiently up-to-date and has the qualities needed to get a new regulatory plan. This provides flexibility for municipalities and also provides an opportunity for good plans to continue over ten years, because it must be the quality of the plan that is crucial, not how long it has been since it was actually adopted. This is an important simplification both for business and for those who submit the plans — and also for the municipalities. Then we see – actually with anticipation – up to the regulation that comes and which also needs to clarify which exemptions for planning requirements in the regulatory plans can be used by municipalities. I think that can also be an important simplification. It is important that municipalities have the necessary flexibility to achieve their objectives in the best possible way. The responsibility for planning lies with the municipalities – and the level of ambition must come from the municipalities both in terms of having sufficient regulatory plans and housing – and also in terms of environmental requirements. The two-week deadline for forwarding the decision of the Municipal Council to the County State where the objection is raised is good, and it is important that a deadline should now also be allowed for the County Council to submit its recommendation to the Ministry of Objections. There is no doubt that there are too many cases that almost have a ‘situation’ — without being in treatment. This is a delay in the system that can be tightened up with these deadlines, and things can get faster through the system. But there is one deadline where at least the Left has a problem, and that is the 12-week deadline for getting cases through to the municipal administration. It is clear that regulatory plans have a very varied complexity – and especially in some larger municipalities that are not governed by the Presidency model, as here in Oslo, where you also have matters to deal with through a city council. Afterwards, matters to a local government – a local government that likes to meet once a month – and also a city council system will allow matters to take time if they are complicated. So we think that might be good, factual reasons why the 12-week period is hard to follow. It is important that this is an appropriate provision, that one understands that it can take longer. From this point of view, we are satisfied that there is no penalty for this provision – as this proposal has been presented. In addition to this turmoil, the Left believes that this is a good thing. It contributes to simplification and contributes to greater flexibility for municipalities. Then it is up to them to ensure the necessary quality – of course within the national framework – and where the State and others are also responsible for ensuring and enforcing national objectives, through their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e389	These are not very big changes we are dealing with today. We believe that in the Labour Party in and on its own is all right, because the Planning and Building Act works well already. We essentially agree with all those proposals and support the changes to the government, and we hope that this will lead to simpler legislation, both for politicians and for people. So some comments nevertheless: The five-year rule was to ensure that the construction started no more than five years after the plan was adopted, and it was to prevent the plots from remaining uninhabited after they had been fully regulated. In addition to five years, two more years could be requested twice. This was a rule that was introduced in 2009, so it has not been five years since it was introduced, and therefore we really do not know if it has worked properly. We also notice that in the past the government has almost announced that the whole rule should be removed, but what has been done in practice is to make the five-year rule a ten-year rule. Many of the hearing bodies have said that in practice it will be of little importance and are therefore disappointed that the government did not do as it had previously announced. The Government also requests the possibility to make a regulatory change that provides for an exemption from the regulatory plan application requirement. For us in the Workers' Party, it seems a little unclear which exceptions are supposed to take place, and we write in our remarks that these exceptions should only take place in specific cases. We also see that, potentially, this can fit into the range of some proposals that could weaken the protection of nature and the environment. We are very much in favour of simplification, but it must not be at the expense of environmental protection. While presenting these simplification proposals, we see that many of the professional bodies working with the environment and climate are receiving less funding, both nationally and locally. Adequate knowledge of vulnerable nature is important, both because nature has a value in itself, and most of all – because loss of biodiversity is one of our greatest environmental problems. So the Workers' Party is going to follow up on this in this case and in other matters that come from the government. Finally, we see that the construction industry is struggling with productivity, and several of the hearing bodies say that constant regulatory changes are difficult for them to deal with. Also in this round the government announces that there will be new changes in the Planning and Building Act. This means that although the intention is good and the intention is simplification, the result may be more confusion and a lack of predictability. That is why, together with the Environment Party and the Left, we have written a note that we believe that future changes should set a fixed date for the entry into force of changes, so that, regardless of when they are adopted, they are implemented on a fixed date every two years. It would give the industry more predictability, and it would in itself have been a good simplification measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e402	The right-wing party government of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation proposes in the proposal amendments that will mainly facilitate a simpler, more efficient and flexible handling of regulatory proposals. In addition, corrections and clarifications are proposed in some of the legal provisions. This government delivers, as we promised, also in this field, and we can mention: an increase in the length of the period from five to ten years to start the implementation of detailed regulations to allow derogations from regulatory plan requirements to clarify that municipalities are not able to set plans for private regulatory plans to introduce some new indicative deadlines linked to the processing of plans; In addition, 18 paragraphs of the legislative text provide for corrections and clarifications, which were also necessary – all in order to have a simpler and more efficient and flexible handling of regulatory proposals after the proposals mentioned above have been heard. The Committee has noted that the hearing bodies are generally in favour of the proposals, which are considered to be practical and well-founded. A Joint Committee also shares the government's view that the changes will have a positive impact on both builders and inhabitants and reduce resource use in the context of planning for municipalities. On behalf of the Progress Party, I am pleased that we can participate in this simplification, which will lead to more effective progress in regulatory work in the future and make it more prudent – for the benefit and pleasure of both public and private developers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e426	Let me first thank the Committee for a quick and effective examination of these simplification proposals. It is in the spirit of simplification that it was also dealt with effectively in Stortinget. We appreciate that, because many of these changes are wanted from the construction industry, but also from the municipalities. Now, when we remove the five-year rule, it's based on recordings that have come both from the big cities and from municipalities that facilitate e.g. cabin construction. If OBOS is going to build 1,000 apartments in Oslo, it's hard to get it done in five years. With the five-year rule, this could mean that you get new rematches, new rounds of opposition, new delays. Similarly, with private regulatory plans in cabin areas – where you might want to add to a plan over 10–15 years – you will also open up new fights and new delays with today’s legislation. The new rule is not that we go from five years to ten years – we remove the five-year rule, but we say that after ten years you have to make an assessment of whether you meet the requirements that have been set. We're now implementing simplifications in a lot of areas. We have already adopted simplifications in the Building Act in the Stortinget. We have launched new simplification measures in this area as well. We speed up the process of digitising the entire planning and building process, which will be a major simplification both for municipalities, for residents and for industry. We have also placed greater emphasis on listening to local democracy in opposition cases. The most important effect of this is that cases are resolved earlier and at a lower level. There has been a tendency for various agencies to raise objections in the hope that they will win at the end when they are located in the Council of State's office. When matters are to be resolved in the past, good solutions are found in the municipality, in cooperation with the various departments. The focus is on the environment and on cultural memories, but you can find the best solutions locally without having to go all the way to the ministry's office. That is why we have also seen a very sharp decline in the number of objections as ports in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. We have also marked a clear change – from about 75 pst. the objections were accepted, so that they are now 75-80 pst. the views of the municipality which are taken into account. I am pleased that the Committee has dealt with this matter quickly and effectively. There are proposals that will be well received in Kommune-Norway, which will help us to get faster and more rational treatment of this type of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e437	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e440	We are now making relatively small adjustments to the Planning and Building Act. At the same time, the government in its letter of consultation has announced that new changes will also be made. Many people then say that it is difficult to deal with ever-small changes. My question to the Council of State is whether he understands that frustration, and whether we can expect new small changes to continue in Stortinget, or whether the government sees a job where you could see a more comprehensive review of the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e447	I must admit that frustration I have not registered. It is possible that it is among the opposition parties in Stortinget, but I experience a great deal of enthusiasm in the industry, in Municipality-Norway and among the people most related to the simplification proposals that the government is now implementing. I think we have to do both. It is clear that we need to have a complete look at the law of the plan and the building, to see if it works as intended. At the same time, it is necessary to make the changes that can be implemented quickly. It's about shorter deadlines. It is about changes that mean avoiding constant rematches, and it is about more rational treatment of both planks and building matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e454	I'm glad to see that it's the removal of the five-year rule and not just a change of it. It is clear that the way the housing market varies over time is necessary to develop – when the time comes – a plan reserve that lies there and that you can be sure that you can implement it. This is important – it is important for municipalities, it is important for those who need to deal with the plans, and it is important for business, so that you can be almost ready and clear. So until the Council of State said about objections, I agree that it is important to have fewer objections, and that you do not have state authorities that interfere with what is really going to be local decisions. However, it is also important, with regard to the objections that are actually there, that there is a clear indication that, through the State, the state interests of the different communities are safeguarded. Yes, we are in favour of local democracy, and we must be able to make decisions, but we must not be able to outrun state interests through a local government. So it's important here that you're aware of what you're doing, and you don't go too far in just listening to local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e462	Let me say I agree with all that Elvestuen has just said. We need to put greater emphasis on local democracy, but at the same time, we need to take into account the various state agencies in the sector. It does so by environmental authorities, the Railway Agency, the State Road Service and the Cultural Monuments. But my point is that good solutions have to be found in the past, and I have many examples of having done so now, precisely because we have said that more attention should be paid to local democracy. Then you also get the different floors to sit around the table and find solutions. There are several examples from Oslo, where solutions have been found that make the municipality not get it exactly what they want, and the government doesn't get it exactly the way they want it. But good solutions have been found. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e469	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e472	When I'm not called up at Stortinget as an alternate, I sit as Vice-President in Alta Municipality. As local politicians, we have to deal with the Planning and Building Act almost every day in contact with case handlers and builders. Sometimes the law has felt more like an obstacle than an opportunity to be a yes-communist. I am very happy that we have a government that is constantly working to simplify, renew and improve laws and rules that in turn help to create a simpler everyday life for most people and business. We can also look at many of the simplifications in the Law on Planning and Building as proposed by the Government. These changes will mainly facilitate more efficient planning processes and have a positive economic impact on business. I am also very pleased that the government will repeal the five-year rule, which will facilitate the handling of construction and less resource use in planning processes both for municipalities and action holders. There are many things that can make processes shift. Then it is not good as it has been, that action holders have almost had to start again. It is important that the procedure does not take too long. Then it is good that the proposal for deadlines in the Planning and Building Act could facilitate simpler, faster and more predictable handling of planning matters and thus give a positive benefit. It is also very good that the proposal for a new planning and building law will help to speed up the handling of objections and facilitate that cases are not left unresolved in the transition between treatment stages. With regard to the planning programme and impact assessments of the proposal, a clearer, more simplified and flexible regulatory framework is emphasised, which is considered essentially to be socially useful. Overall, the new Planning and Building Act will contribute to the likely need for less resource use by municipalities and policy-makers in planning processes, and this is positive. I'm proud of a government that is constantly working to simplify, renew and improve society, which, in turn, provides a simpler everyday life for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e487	This government has promised to simplify and improve the public sector and, in this proposition, facilitates a simpler, more flexible and more efficient management of regulatory plans. These proposals closely follow an overall strategy to make everyday life easier for businesses, people most and municipalities. To a large extent, it is about reducing the time spent in planning actions and increasing the predictability of those involved. Not least, we know that in road and track planning it can go both winter and spring before all processes are completed. It can even take so long that you have to start all over again, just because things change quickly in our society. I think the vast majority of people agree that processes up to ten years too large, heavy infrastructure projects are too long. When we carried out the major railway projects in Norway, towards the end of the 1800s, a decision was taken one to two years from the start of construction. I think this might be a little bit of a tight time in our complex society, but somewhere between there might well be a goal. It is worth noting, however, that the vast majority of the hearing bodies are in favour of the changes proposed in this proposition. As regards the so-called five-year rule, which many have spoken about here, the consultation proposal was that municipalities could increase the deadline to up to 10 years, but with the possibility of a two-year extension, as today. We have a long-term country, and not all parts of Norway have an equal level of expansionary pressure or experience as rapid and rapid changes as they do, for example. Here in Oslo. It is therefore reasonable that the Government should now propose that this provision, this five-year period, be replaced by a more general provision. It says that an assessment is to be made of whether the planning basis is good enough before the construction work is started, and will apply to plans over 10 years of age. This grip I think will make it easier and more predictable for proposers, builders, municipalities and public authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e500	I think it is important when we now deal with this matter, also to remember that this is not the only thing that has been presented by the government in terms of simplification. We dealt with a fairly large proposition just before the summer on simplifying the law on planning and building. And with this coming today, it will provide further speed on faster housing construction, simpler housing construction, faster processing and not least more predictability for both municipalities and builders. I am particularly pleased that we are now removing the five-year period. Many builders and local politicians I meet have been frustrated by this five-year deadline. They have felt that it is difficult – and sometimes impossible – to make plans for larger housing at the time, and therefore it becomes a patchwork carpet strategy when we are building out dwellings. The municipalities are now also pleased to be able to drop this extra cost by having to be renewed after five years. But there was also one thing that the Workers' Party's representative said here, which made me take the floor. One was this rather strange suspicion of some builders, that they will stay on the site for too long when they do not have a five-year term. Well, a builder lives by expanding. They actually have a genuine interest in building these dwellings, and they also have municipalities. It brings me to my next point, as the Labour Party representative also mentioned, namely this frustration among the builders about the constantly changing rules. I have also heard this frustration, but it does not concern the simplifications of this government; it concerns the ever-new detailed requirements and the state overmanagement that the previous government brought to both the industry and the municipalities. There's a reason why the building pace went down, there's a reason we've had a lag on housing, and that's exactly what we're doing by simplifying and improving the construction processes. Finally, I would like to remind you that yes, there will be several changes, because there is a need for more changes. We have to build at least as much over the next 30 years as we've built in the last 100 years. With the population growth we are going to have in the country, it will not only make sense to have some changes from time to time – there will be a great need to have major changes on an ongoing basis, as the population increases. Then I just want to finish where I started: the frustration has been in what the previous government did, and it left behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e515	As the representative Berg from Alta, I am also a regular local politician, but in Groruddalen in Oslo – the fastest growing city in Europe. I want to say that SV will also have a simpler everyday life, but we thought – as we have also, together with several others, said in a comment – that it is early to know whether the five-year rule is working well or not. And we are concerned about – as has been said here – the increasing trend we see, especially in our press areas, that the builders are sitting on regulated property without building, because one is waiting for prices to rise further. As big politicians, I thought we should be concerned that the law we adopt should not increase the cost to people the most – they should get a housing they can afford. I hope, when we have excited the industry in this way – as was said by many – that we can also be confident that the industry will build housing at least as quickly as before, and not twice as slowly, because the housing market is far too high a price as he is. We have to follow this closely up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e526	I really thought this was such a simple matter that the Storting had to pay so much attention to the matter itself. I still think after this debate that it is okay to give some consideration. I have a great deal of understanding that more, from both government parties, need to talk up and talk about the simplification initiative that lies in this matter, and in a way, scale up the reality of what exists – at least that's how I experience it after hearing the comments here. There may be particular reason for this, because the number of bureaucrats has increased considerably under the current government. I have recorded that the Council of State has said that less bureaucracy is not the same as fewer bureaucrats. That's all right. A comment on the Planning and Building Act: it is a law where different considerations are balanced against each other. It is not the case that the Planning and Building Act is a law introduced to prevent people's opportunities. It is designed to balance the different interests of society. It's pretty important to bring it with you. I don't think anyone in this room is opposed to simplifications. Since the law has now been in place for some years, there may be experience that suggests the need for change. Of course we are. But I'm not going to have a planning and building law, especially in terms of land use, which removes the balance points between the different considerations we're going to take as a society and as governments. It will, in my opinion, be wrong. I have also not registered that the Council of State has called for such a change. The design and building law of the day works excellent in all respects. However, there is clearly some need for adjustments. I may not think that this debate is taking place. So that disagreements in planks and land use are resolved as early as possible. It's nothing new. It's actually in the law that now applies. The purpose of the last adjustments was that the objections should be settled early on the table – disagreements should be resolved as early as possible. That's a good reason to be able to deal with the law as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e537	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e551	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e565	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e574	Today we are discussing a proposal from the Greens/Greens/EFA, which has proposed using 1 pst. by the State budget for climate action abroad and for its direct withdrawal from the pension fund. Today, only the Green Party supports this proposal, so that this could potentially become a very short debate. Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss precisely climate action abroad and what Norway can contribute. One of the most pointless discussions you have in Norwegian climate policy, I think, is whether we should act outside or at home. It's obviously what the answer is: we're going to do both of them. All of us who believe that we have to do what we can at home to become a low-carbon society are also to do a lot in the world. Through outside contributions, we can reduce the planet's greenhouse gas emissions to a much greater extent than what we can do with just the Norwegian emissions. By contributing our capital, we can internationally go from word to action and join in taking global leadership in the climate struggle. That was what Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg did when he went to Bali in 2007 and brought 3 billion. kr for rainforest bet, which has since been followed up every year. I am pleased that this government is also following up on this year's budget, and that they are not trying a reprisal from last year, with huge cuts in the rainforest bet. Norway has been a driver of the Green Climate Fund. It gives us a great responsibility for this fund to be a success, and for us to be one of the following countries – including with capital. The government granted 200 million in the year. to the United Nations Green Fund. That is what we in the Labour Party think is good, but in general, this is too terribly small money to count, both in and on a national basis and, not least, in a global context. We've seen that the new social-democratic government in Sweden is giving a lot more than what we're doing here at home, in Norway. In the Labour Party, we have great expectations that there will be a significantly larger contribution from Norway in the next year's government budget, and that it will be one of the important contributions we have towards the Paris meeting later that same year. The Greens propose a percentage target. In the Workers' Party, we have taken initiatives to do this in other areas – in the area of aid and culture. There we have seen that it has been a great success. Last year we even got the Progress Party to vote for 1 pst. for assistance. And today's government is laying on almost the same percentage. It's because it's been a percentage that's been on the ground. It has ensured an increased contribution to these two areas every year. The red-green government had a percentage of cultural policy. It doesn't have the government of the day, and we see the result: there will be lower appropriations. Therefore, all parties – except the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – say that it may be relevant with percentage targets also in climate policy, but this is something that needs to be assessed further. Finally, there is a proposal to take money directly from the pension fund. We in the Labour Party think that is a bad idea. We believe that the money should rather be granted over the state budget in the usual way. What we think, on the other hand, is an interesting discussion is how the pension fund can be used in a climate perspective. That's why the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party in the previous session proposed that, as a first step, we should take the pension fund out of coal, the most polluting form of energy. Unfortunately, we did not get a majority for that in this room. Yesterday the message came that KLP is drawing all its investments out of coal, on the proposal of the Left rapporteur in Eid. We think that was a brilliant decision, and I hope the rapporteur, Alfred Bjørlo, calls his party traps in the Left and makes them support our proposal – because when the Left and Christian People's Party are ready to vote for our proposal, yes, then we are ready to form a majority in this Chamber. Now there's an expert group working, we're waiting for what it's coming up with. We look forward to exciting and interesting discussions on how the pension fund can be used in a climate perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e597	Let me first clarify a manifest misunderstanding. The previous speaker said that the Green Party's proposal was to use 1 pst. Of the state budget, but it's 1 pst. of the gross national income — which is significantly higher — proposed. Norway has technology, competence and capital to contribute to emission reductions and to migration to low-carbon communities both outdoors and at home. Extensive efforts are being made in a number of areas already today, and this effort will continue in the coming years. One of the most important is the international climate and forest effort, where the government proposes to further increase efforts in 2015. The work on the care of the rain forest is perhaps one of the most effective climate measures we can implement, while at the same time it means a great deal to preserve biodiversity and the interests of indigenous peoples. Norway also proposes a contribution of 200 million. kr to the UN Green Fund in 2015, and we need to be an active driver for other countries to contribute to this important work in the future. The government also proposes a strong commitment to renewable energy. State pension funds abroad have been extended to invest in renewable energy from 30 billion. DKK to 50 billion. kr. Currently, state pension funds abroad are not set up to enter non-listed companies and individual renewable energy projects. However, with the extended renewable energy mandate, the fund is well placed to invest in listed renewable energy companies worldwide. Here, there are likely to be many more opportunities in the years to come. However, early stage investments are also important to contribute to more renewable energy production in the world. For this, Norfund and SN Power are ideal tools. The two companies are already investing a two-digit number of billions in renewable energy in developing countries. In 2015, the government proposes to strengthen Norfund’s equity by a further 1.5 billion. kr. Norfund and SN Power take significant risks, but have delivered good returns since the start. The return is reinvested in new renewable projects in developing countries under commercial conditions. Green Africa Power is a new fund to stimulate commercial players to invest in renewables south of the Sahara. Norway will contribute 300 million. kr to this fund, which we consider to be a very positive initiative. Norway also contributes to climate action in developing countries in the purchase of allowances through the UN FMC. So-called CDM quotas are not perfect, and the bottom has recently fallen out of the market. However, the answer cannot be to throw waste on one of the few systems the world has agreed to finance climate action directly in developing countries. The answer must be to help improve the system by putting it into use, so that we can be sure that the greenhouse gas purchases have a real climate effect. In total, Norway has a number of initiatives in financing climate action in developing countries. Many of them will help developing countries to participate in the major shift from a fossil-based economy primarily to an economy based on sustainable energy sources. We should be careful about how we manage the equity of State pension funds abroad. There is a reason why it has changed its name from oil funds to pension funds. However, the government has been clear that more of the returns must be used for purposes today that contribute to speeding up the green shift both outdoors and at home. The government's proposals for the 2015 government budget show that we are doing this well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e628	Climate change is global. Therefore, both national efforts and international cooperation are needed to stop them. Jan Egeland said it so thoughtful at the Zero Conference last week: ‘The big question today is that we are making the world more and more unviable.’ It hit hardest the poorest, who have done least, while it hits at least us who have done the most to generate global warming. Progress in setting up an international climate agreement with all countries is too slow. We need ambitious leaders who commit to ambitious emissions cuts, and more money to finance climate action. It will give us much confidence in climate negotiations, which must give us a global climate agreement until next year if we are to be able to fight the devastating climate change. There is no doubt that in Norway we need to do what we can to get ahead of this process. We should, among other things, send strong signals that renewable energy is part of the climate solution. Norway should be the driver of a strong international partnership for Energy+, an initiative that finances renewable energy in developing countries and at the same time combats poverty. In the past, the Christian People's Party has proposed the creation of an investment fund aimed at investing in enterprises and projects in the energy and environmental sectors, with special emphasis on innovative and environmentally friendly energy technologies. We want SPU to invest more in socially responsible and sustainable businesses and in future-oriented sectors such as renewable energy and other climate-friendly activities. In addition, the Fund should invest more in emerging markets, which has been shown in recent years to yield far better returns than investment in rich countries. The Fund must be managed on the basis of ethical guidelines and with low risk and high yield targets. However, the aim of high returns must not be at the expense of human rights or the environment. On the contrary, it is important to ensure that the fund does not contribute to human rights violations or major environmental damage. Nor should SPU make investments that are incompatible with the global climate objective of a maximum of two degrees of temperature increase. The proposal proposes to introduce a percentage of the climate. This implies that Norway should use the corresponding 1 pst. of Norway’s total national income, GNI, per year, for climate action abroad. That's about 30 billion. kr for 2014. In other policy areas, there have been political ambitions of a percentage. This is the case in both cultural and development policy. These objectives have contributed to large resources for these purposes. I therefore do not wish to rule out the possibility of having similar ambitions for other policy purposes, including in climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e655	Suffering from the proposals today just getting the votes of the Greens, I think that the position we are discussing today suggests that there will be wider discussions on this issue in the Stortinget in the year before us. On the one hand, there is an overall committee that leads both to increased efforts and to a clear role for the State pension fund abroad in the issue of climate-related action and also to exit from areas where there is a climate-related problem. But there are enough of us waiting for both a broader decision-making base and the ongoing investigation into the role of the Pension Fund in coal and coal investment. There are many different instruments currently available in the Norwegian response to climate action abroad. In total, it was used in the vicinity of 5 billion. in 2013 for various measures dealing with climate action abroad. It's a topic that's going to become more and more important, and it's also going to be essential to see those instruments more in context than we might have done in the past. Contributions to the UN Climate Fund are an important and necessary effort and, as the Committee expresses it, it is necessary for Norway to take an active and leading position in that work and also to increase the contributions in the years ahead. Expressing ambitions through percentages has proved to be important in some other areas. It has helped to raise both efforts and visibility in areas such as culture and assistance, so it is in itself a topic that should not be rejected. But it's clear that there might be different ways to do this, just like there might be different ways to do it when you're talking about contributions from the SPU. The Green Party has proposed to withdraw money directly from the State pension fund abroad, and the Labour Party says that this type of bet should be made through ordinary budgetary appropriations. One can also imagine that the type of bet can be made by a subtractor from gross operating income, i.e. before it is transferred to the State pension fund abroad, and before it at all calculates a net operating income. That's also a possible way to think about it. I think it is important that we get further into the assessments of the role that state pension funds abroad can and should play, including in climate, in the years to come. It is possible to see the Fund as a clear role in a climate perspective. The proposal that was made last year when it was coal and that the SPU should leave the coal is an example of that. I am probably afraid that the assessment that is now being made by the Ministry of Finance and the government is going to be a little too subtle in its approach, and that we can risk not having a broad enough debate related to the mandate given to that investigation. Only to assess whether it may appear to be a more effective exercise of ownership can become too narrow. The centre party believes it is necessary to consider wider, and we also believe that guidelines on reduced CO2 intensity should be considered, which may mean coal, but it may also mean that other parts of fossil production need to be assessed in such a context. I think we'll get on with the questions about the evaluations of the SPU, and I think the KLP decision earlier this week to withdraw from the coal is an encouragement because it also reflects the debate here in the hall and on the Stortinget. I really want to share what the representative Aukrust says about saying that the greetings of Alfred Bjørlo in Eid should go on to his party traps from the Left here in the Chamber, so that on the next crossroads they make sure that there can also be more specific decisions in the Stortinget than what was done earlier this year in the case of the State pension fund abroad. The centre party today chooses to await the investigation that has now been notified, but there is a certain hope of finding that there is actually a majority in the hall both to assess the percentage and to consider withdrawing from coal investment in the SPU.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e673	At the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Summit in Copenhagen, rich countries committed themselves to pledge 100 billion. USD annual for climate finance by 2020. There was a central demand from the developing countries in the climate negotiations, and it is important for confidence in these negotiations that Norway and other rich countries follow up their promises. It's also fair. There are poor countries that have contributed at least to climate change, but they feel the consequences the hardest. Poor countries are boosting our support for adaptation to climate change, and poor countries are boosting our support for investing in climate technologies, and perhaps they can avoid the costly reversals of fossil energy that we have had. The hope is that poor countries can skip some of these fossil states that rich countries have gone through. It is important that Norway take an active and leading position in the work on the UN Green Climate Fund. In this debate I would like to refer to the alternative budget of the SV, where we propose 650 million. kr in support of climate finance. So let's do that on top of going 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. I would like to remind the other parties that support for climate finance should come to the top of ordinary assistance and not be a substitute for other important development objectives. When the red-green government in its time decided to step up supported for forest conservation to 3 billion. kr, at the same time increase the share of GNI to aid in total. I note that today's government does not choose such a strategy. On the contrary, they don't allow one penny of every hundred bills we spend to help, and they suggest an excessive amount of money, within the modest aid framework, for climate finance. SV further believes that support for climate finance must receive an annual escalation plan by 2020. Finally, I would like to remind you that all the money we allow to help, should be properly managed. I want to remind the government that they have a great responsibility to follow up on the management of money going to climate finance, and to ensure good action against miscarriage, including in the international funds for which Norway allows money. It is neither in the climate nor in the poor countries' interest that we forget zero tolerance for corruption and miscarriage when we now discuss the large sums required from the world's richest country. We in SV also look forward to more debates on how our oil fund, as we call it on the people's mouth, can be used as an even better tool in the great, important climate struggle, where Norway has both financial muscles and competence to take a special responsibility in the green, good fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e688	Norway is one of the countries that spends the most, measured per capita, on climate change work, and having now taken part as an observer of the UN work for a month and seen the work they do within a number of important areas, I can also conclude that we are showing well in the statistics on financial contributions, even in the case of the United Nations Green Fund. Norfund is also doing a very important work on the renewable side abroad and in a number of countries — and is another example of Norway’s contribution in this area. Norway has actively contributed to the development of international work in the field of climate change, and further ambitions are not diminished – rather on the contrary. For this reason, one now suggests a concrete percentage of climate as a target, a derailment, after the Progress Party's opinion. Political ambitions through a percentage target are a bad idea, focusing on resource allocation rather than on what is important: efficient and good resource location. This government has been and will still be at the forefront of the world when it comes to resource use measured per capita, but locking it to an exact percentage of GNI is simply a bad idea. Finally, some words relate to Ingunn Gjerstad's post, where she addresses the problem of corruption: we see today that large funds go to this type of work, and then it is very important that this work is not destroyed by the fact that dishonest souls come in and get the resources for this important work. So it's very important to focus on this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e701	In the opinion of the Joint Committee, the following shall state: ‘Without significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, societies and ecosystems worldwide are at risk of being destroyed’. That is why the UN Climate Fund has been established, with Norway as one of the drivers. So the point of the Climate Fund is that rich countries should give money to this fund, so that one can invest in a more sustainable development in poor countries, and that we may be able to avoid the ghastly effects of climate change that the Committee points out. Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft points out in a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee on 19 May 2014: ‘There is a great need for funding for climate change mitigation and mitigation in developing countries.’ Furthermore, the government believes that «Norway should play a driving role». The Committee, on its side, points out that negotiations on the international climate agreement are slow, and that there is a great deal of deep conflict between rich and poor countries, because there is a dissatisfaction with the financing will of rich countries. The Committee also stresses that it is important that Norway continues to have an active and leading position in the work of the UN Climate Fund, etc. So the government of Solberg has granted 200 million. This very important fund, while the rich countries agreed in Copenhagen, was a target of 100 billion. dollar. 200 million. kr is less than that. Now the U.S. has announced that they will grant 3 billion. dollar, Sweden comes with 1 billion. dollar, France by 1 billion. dollar, etc. — all together with more or significantly more than Norway provides. This is why the Green Party has proposed that Norway use the exceptional international instrument we have in the form of the State pension fund abroad, and takes a very small part of that fund to strengthen the UN climate fund in a way that will really make a difference. The cost of the SPU will be approx. two thirds of the capital allocated to the fund within one quarter. So it won't make sense on the fund at all, and it will be a very modest intervention in our pension capital. The Church's Emergency Aid has, a few months ago, made estimates of what Norway's actual international climate debt is, given that we live by selling oil and gas. The sums that the study comes up with are quite astronomical. There are hundreds of billions of dollars a year in several areas. A 30-billion-dollar sum. kr is small in relation to the climate debt the Church's Emergency Aid calculates that we actually have. Nevertheless, we have received some sympathy statements today, but also unisony summaries of the fact that the oil fund cannot yet be used to make a real difference in international climate work. That's what I think sad, because this is exactly what characterises Norwegian climate policy both at home and outside: the fact that we're not willing to put in instruments that we can put in, and are not willing to put in instruments that really make a big difference. Then, of course, I make an exception for one good thing that Norway is doing outside, namely the forest plot. With regard to the fund that we have been involved in establishing ourselves, we do not have the leading role that both the Council of State and the Committee want us to have, and we do not contribute to building up the fund in any constructive way. We are likely in a situation where we reinforce the suspicion from poor countries that rich countries such as Norway are unwilling to contribute. I note at least that it's the will to continue this discussion, that's a good thing. So I hope that a majority in the Grand Duchy at the next crossroads will be willing to use the tools that Norway really has, to implement the policy that Norway claims we have. I refer to the proposals of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e737	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e741	We are entering a crucial year for international climate policy. In Paris, the world will agree on an ambitious climate agreement in one year's time. The agreement will help us limit global warming to two degrees. A key prerequisite for success will be to provide increased funding for climate action in developing countries in the years to come. I am pleased that the representative Hansson is putting a searchlight on this. The poorest countries are hit hardest by climate change. They need support to adapt. And they need support to transform their economies so that they can get economic growth with low emissions. At the Copenhagen climate summit in 2009, rich countries promised 100 billion. dollars annually by 2020 for climate action in poor countries. As the representative Hansson points out in his proposal, the Green Climate Fund becomes an important piece in the scale up to 100 billion. dollar. Norway will announce its contribution to the Green Climate Fund Green Summit in Berlin today. These are means that come to the top of an already high level. Norway is at the forefront of international climate finance. This year, we're going to spend about five billion dollars. kr for emission reduction measures and climate adaptation in developing countries. The largest international climate action is the government's climate and forest initiative. In the 2015 budget, the government proposes 3 billion. kr for the forest bet. I am very pleased that a comprehensive evaluation shows that the initiative has good progress and goals. As you know, the government has decided to continue this effort until 2020. The development of clean energy in developing countries is another main Norwegian initiative. In 2014, Stortinget has granted almost 1.3 billion. kr for such measures. Climate adaptation is an important area in which we are stepping up our efforts. In 2013, efforts aimed at adaptation increased to around 600 million. kr. However, as the representative Hansson points out, the financing needs are enormous. We need a large-scale green shift in global investment, both public and private. I want to draw out three key factors in order to get such a shift. The first is that public regulation sends a clear and long-term signal to investors that the future belongs to low-carbon activities. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government said that we should be a driving force in the work of putting an international price on carbon. A price of carbon will increase climate-friendly investments in both rich and poor countries. The second factor is the smart use of public money, so private investment is shifting in a climate-friendly direction. Norfund expects to have triggered over 43 billion private dollars through its investments in clean energy in developing countries. The government is increasing transfers to Norfund next year by 250 million. NOK – to a total of 1480 million. kr. At least half of the capital replenishment in 2015 will go to investments in renewable energy. Subsidies to fossil fuels are both expensive and bad for the climate. Nevertheless, the amount of these subsidies is unfortunately many times higher than the world’s total climate funding. This fraction has to be reversed. Last but not least, developing countries and emerging economies will have to take a big responsibility for themselves. They must create good conditions for attracting investment, and they must ensure that economic growth takes place with as low emissions as possible. The good news is that these grips will largely pay off anyway, as the New Climate Economy report has recently shown. However, the report is also clear that support from public sources needs to increase. Norway will do its part.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e776	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e790	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is understood to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e797	I would like, on behalf of the rapporteur, to thank the Committee for its good and constructive cooperation in this matter. It is always nice to be able to present a unanimous setting. The climate agreement is leading us, and it is important that we look for good solutions for the climate and the environment in the matters we are dealing with. In the field of public acquisitions, this becomes clear. The public sector should – and should – use its market power by being the largest consumer in the economy, with around 400 billion. kr annually, and there is room for active use of purchasing policy as an instrument in the green shift. It is good that the government sees the need for a review of today's legislation with a view to renewing work on environmental and climate considerations in public procurement. Using public acquisitions as part of the green shift and increasing competitiveness for Norwegian jobs is both good and right. The transformation of society in general and the public sector towards the low-emission society is such a major task that there is no good reason for climate and environmental considerations to be a separate procurement theme, but that it should be integrated with the other efforts made by the authorities to acquire. The Sundvolden Declaration confirms that the government will ensure that the public sector as a customer contributes to the deployment and development of new environmental and climate-friendly technologies. Furthermore, the EU has adopted new procurement directives and the directives open up more green space for action and innovation through procurement processes. One of the aims of the EU's work on revising the Acquisitions Directive has been to improve the ability to address other societal concerns in public procurement, such as: climate and environment. The possibilities for setting environmental requirements at all stages of a process have been clarified and expanded. Divi is the agency of the authorities for the development of the public sector in the field of procurement and contributes with their professional competence in this field. If we are to succeed in using public acquisitions in the service of the climate and the environment, it is important to have the opportunities provided by the regulatory framework for individual procurement in the public sector. It will be important to make use of legislation in the service of the climate and the environment by both state and municipal and county authorities. Dissemination of knowledge becomes important. With this decision in this case, work on the dissemination of competences and advice on environmental and climate considerations in public acquisitions is defined as the area of responsibility of diffi.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e820	From the previous post, one would really think that the proposal we are now dealing with was superfluous, but it is not. There's a reason for that, and that's why the government chose to remove that instrument from diffi that a majority believes diffi should have. So I'm glad that the Storting is together. 400 B.C.E. kr – or around it – is the public act for every year. There is a significant purchasing power in the public system and it is important that it has a device against environmental and climate considerations. That's exactly what this is really about. It would be surprising if one did not want the State to maintain, through diffi, the clear advisory function and the clear device they have had against the environment in public procurement. Then, like the previous speaker, I am pleased that the committee is united, but I stress that it is a majority – a clear majority of the committee – that is critical of the government choosing to remove this mandate from diffi. The majority believe very clearly that precisely what has been the device for Diffi in the field of the environment in public procurement has been of great importance and that there is no contradiction in this respect and in what may be due to reinforcements in public procurement for environmental and climate reasons. This is a good thing. It was really an unnecessary matter if the government had not proposed the adjustment they made, but in the light of the adjustment they proposed, I am very pleased that a total increase wants the scheme to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e831	The public sector is the largest buyer in the country. Annual purchases of goods and services are made for about 400 billion. kr, representing about 18 pst. GDP. In this way, the public sector has a purchasing power with which no one else can compare. This power can be a unique tool if one uses it properly. The public sector can make a strong contribution, through strategic, environmentally conscious acquisitions, to creating demand for environmentally friendly and innovative solutions across different sectors. However, the big question is whether the public already has sufficient competence to use this power for this very purpose. The question then arises: is there a continuous attention and a clear awareness of this in all public bodies when it comes to procurement? I think, unfortunately, that's not enough. Until the fall of 2013, Divi had a department, funded by the Ministry of the Environment, which worked on just such a lifting of competences. The department has developed tools and courses, has provided training and guidance for municipalities and other public bodies to become more competent and conscious in setting eco-efficiency and innovation requirements for acquisitions. The department has focused in particular on the major purchasing items such as operating costs, energy and environmental pressures, ICT, transport and buildings. However, the government chose to remove the subsidy in the additionalproposal to the State budget last autumn. This has naturally led to diffi's work in the field being reduced to a minimum. That each municipality should develop its own requirements is simply a bad social economy. I find it strange that the government has not launched any alternative to increase the purchasing competence of the public sector. Law on public acquisitions requires public consideration of the environment and life-cycle costs, LCC. Lack of competence capacity in municipalities, county councils and state bodies could result in these aspects being rarely taken into account. The consequences are poorer quality and increased LCC costs. I believe that the original budget line should primarily be restored. This has also been proposed by the Christian People's Party in its alternative budget for 2015. We've proposed to grant $10 million. kr to continue the bet. So now we see how things are going in the negotiations, but we choose to support the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e846	One gets a little trim in those days when it's the committee's business in a row and in a row! In the same way that climate change affects unfairly and differently, Norwegian municipalities are affected by government, and the Stortinget, the prioritisation of climate and environmental concerns. Then it's our role to secure their toolbox. Small municipalities, as we know, have fewer resources, fewer added than large municipalities, and as the Health Council also said in the previous case, the public sector is very important to achieve our climate targets. By providing assistance to local authorities through Diffi, training them to use this great market power, they are a task that we need to get back into place. We are now doing so in this decision, and I am pleased that a joint committee will.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e853	The public sector is the largest consumer in the Norwegian economy with around 400 billion. kr in annual consumption, and I am pleased to note that an overall committee believes that the public sector should actively use the opportunities offered by such a market position in purchasing policy as an instrument for the green shift. The Committee’s view will be emphasised in the ongoing review of procurement legislation. The audit shall include, inter alia: the starting point of the new EU procurement directives. The Directives provide for increased green space for action and innovation through procurement processes. The deadline for national implementation is April 2016. The review we have started not only applies to legislation, but also to the further development of policy more generally. The revised EU legislation is more flexible and opens up new opportunities. If we are to exploit the potential of a more flexible regulatory framework, we need to combine it with other instruments in a smart way. In this way, we can simplify the daily lives of sponsors and businesses and achieve practical results, which can promote both green shifts and increased green competitiveness. Public expenditure is the largest consumer overall, but there are also many large consumers in the private sector, and we can learn from the best in green purchases in the private sector. The National Programme for Supplier Development 2015-2019 shall promote the use of new environmental and climate-friendly technologies. This is one example of the many initiatives that together contribute to the transformations of the economy. While the majority of the Committee refers to a reduction in the guidance offer in the current year, Divi remains responsible for guidance on environmental legislation and life-cycle costs. I want to make a thorough assessment of what should be carried on, what can be simplified, and what we need to do new in further development. It would then be natural to consider what kind of guidance will be most needed and how to provide guidance. The Ministry will actively use diffi for professional advice in the development phase we are now in. I note that the Committee points out that it is important in the further work on procurement legislation to have the opportunities provided by the legislation to individual purchasers in the public sector. It will be important to make use of legislation in the service of the environment as well as of local and regional authorities. I want future instruments to contribute to simplification. This is not least the case with increased digitisation, and this is also positive from an environmental point of view. It has to be easier to make green choices for public enterprises. So let me finally say that I am satisfied with the cross-political consensus on actively using purchasing policy as an instrument for the green shift. The Committee gives clear signals to the government on how diffi can – and should – contribute to enhancing the competence of the environment and climate in public procurement, and I will include these signals in the ongoing review of legislation and instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e872	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e875	The majority of the Committee considers that the sets of environmental criteria and other guidance provided by diffi have provided a high level of professional certainty as to how environmental requirements and criteria can be placed in competitions and tenders. Do the Councils agree with that consideration?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e882	Divi is responsible for guidance throughout the regulatory framework for public acquisitions, including in environmental and life-cycle costs. It is an integral part of public procurement, and therefore we are actively using diffi when we are working on how to follow up what we now know comes from the EU on new procurement directives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e887	Then it might be tempting to ask the following follow-up questions: when the Council of State writes in a letter to the Committee dated 22 October that she ‘has not considered it appropriate to pursue the policy of the previous government in this area’, what has changed from 22 October to today, when the Council of State also stresses that the continuation of the policy of the red-green government is important in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e893	As I said in the previous answer, we are now using diffi's competence in our work to assess in concrete terms what kind of guidance it will be most needed, and how that guidance is to be offered. We now know that this area is in rapid development. We are moving towards a more flexible and transparent regulatory framework. We now know what we can expect from the EU, and how to adapt to it, and how to put up with better skills, but also perhaps more innovation in purchasing from the green shift. So we're actively using diffi in that work, and we're using their skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e898	It is positive, we believe, that the government should review today's legislation with a view to renewing its work on environmental and climate considerations in public procurement. My question is: wouldn't it be wise to wait to reduce the activity of diffi until this work is completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e903	Now we also note developments in the European Union in this area, and we know that new directives are coming. We're using diff in that work right now. So it's important – once again, as I said – to look at what kind of guidance we need and how the guidance is to be offered. There has been a good project in Divi that has given a good insight into this, which also the state, municipalities and county municipalities have already got a good insight into. So we're going to continue working now, because we know that using purchasing policy is one of the most important tools we have to do the green shift. Divi has good competence, which we use in our development of this policy area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e908	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e911	Government in Norway purchases goods and services for 400 billion. kr of the year, i.e. a large amount. Using this effectively to achieve good environmental objectives and to look at life-cycle costs and at the whole of the purchasing system is the main means of achieving the climate and environmental goals that we have set ourselves as a society. Then I am very pleased that, in connection with this Document 8, it is now a unanimous increase that is in favour of – and specifies – relinquishing the responsibility of diffi in order to advise the public – the state, but also the states and municipalities – in terms of environmental and life-cycle costs. This is really a matter of correcting a mistake, and it is good that you are so united in doing so. And there's actually two mistakes. Firstly, it is important to put in place and to establish that this is one of the most important tasks of Digis. There is no doubt that with as large purchases as municipalities and counties do, they need a supporter in the state. It's impossible to build this competence out with the individual, where you have to have a central actor that supports, and Divi has done this in an excellent way. But one also corrects the other error, which is that when you got this extra appropriation from the Ministry of the Environment in 2008, it was a three-year trial project, which was then carried on. I think this case illustrates why, at least from the left, it is that environmental measures should be supplementary appropriations. The responsibility for the environment must lie within the ordinary operation. It concerns diffi, and it applies in other establishments and in other parts of the public sector. It's a fact that you put this on supplementary appropriations. This case shows that you are creating a vulnerable system. By a simple decision, the whole environmental thought disappears, and then the purpose of what was originally done disappears. So we are very pleased that we now have a unanimous increase which is stated that this should be among the main tasks of diffi and that it should be done within the budgets of diffi at all times. This is not an additional task, this must be one of their main tasks, and if you are able to mobilise all the purchases and acquisition volumes into the service of the environment, you can really bring about major changes in society. Then it's clear that for many, what you meet is a complicated code. Not only do you need to ensure that you have the right environmental objectives, but you also need to do so in a level playing field. With the links we have with the EU, it is a complex piece of legislation, which many municipalities and counties need to support to permeate. And not least, as pointed out, new EU directives provide more room for action in order to impose environmental requirements on acquisitions. Here, Divi has a central role to play in showing and clarifying the space for action that the various parts of the country — but also local government, state and local authorities — have without breaching the competition rules. They have a space for action in order to achieve environmental objectives but need to be sure that they remain within the framework of competition rules. So this is really a matter that should have been unnecessary, we shouldn't have ended up in this situation. It should have been cleaned up without this space. Once it became that way, this is a good cause for environmental work in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e926	As the case rapporteur for diffi in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, I think it is natural that I also say something about this. I have with great amazement looked at what the government has done in this area, and amazes me by a government from the right that doesn't understand properly, I think, how a great economic, financial, muscle can really be used to achieve results. I am therefore pleased that some solutions to this are now being found, but it is this way that we need to have key competences that can provide advice to the various agencies and agencies of the state and also to the local authorities in a much stronger way than what we are doing today, both in climate and environment, and also in a very large number of other areas where ICT is essential. I would also like to draw attention to international research, where it is now, among other things. is a researcher at Staffordshire University in England, called Mariana Mazzucato, who has demonstrated through his research the importance of the impact of the public sector on innovation and, in particular, the large shifts needed in society, i.e. that public sector efforts should not be underestimated as a major player and as an important driver of such innovative shifts in very many areas. I think it's important that we now really go into it, so that we don't sort of fall into these ideological ditches where everything public is not innovative, because very much public is innovative, and this research shows that if we're going to get to the green shift we need now, the public has to do a lot to help that change happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e933	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e949	The most horrible thing has happened. A child is dead in mysterious circumstances. How do police and prosecution authorities react in Norway? Is this a full alarm? Is everything done to at least clarify what has happened and to punish the guilty? Unfortunately, the answer is too often no. That is why we have to bottom up why the Norwegian police have failed in specific cases in terms of investigation, prosecution and judging adults for violence against and killing children. On the 25th anniversary of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we have to ask ourselves these questions. The two little children, Christoffer Gjerstad Kihle and Monika Sviglinskaya, who suffered a brutal and terrible death, have shown to the world that something must be terribly wrong when such matters can be blamed for the fact that the child has injured himself sea to the dead. The least we can do for the children who have been subjected to such cruel violence is to prioritize investigations and criminal proceedings against the perpetrators. Only thanks to the fact that a grandmother and a mother did not give up, that someone refused to look away and resign, the cases were resolved: one with a conviction, one with an assumed perpetrator. The police's reasons for putting things away have upset us all. In addition, in the case of Christoffer, eight years old, many warning lights flashed in advance, and there is much we can do to stop violence against children. Also in this area, there is a long way to go — including in the police — when it comes to looking, looking for, to discover, intervene and prosecute. When the police got this case, they knew that the officers had said they found him with tissue in his nose and throat. The police were routinely notified of a possible suicide. In this case, there was a long history of injuries and serious concerns that the police knew about. The police persecuted several theories. Did the boy choke himself with paper? Did the great damage of marine damage come, or was he killed? Finally, the State Attorney should consider the appeal or order. The state attorney knew about the great damage, but not how he got it, or by who. The state attorney did not ask for further investigation. He's turning the case over. After a new investigation round, the State Attorney once again wanted to refer the matter to the Court. Then the attorney-in-chief seized and ordered the attorney-in-law to take out a lawsuit. October 24th, that year — almost four years after the boy died — the stepfather was sentenced to death. Then everyone said that this never had to happen again, that now you had learned. Then eight-year-old Monika Sviglinskaya was put to death, and the police's lack of investigation and surrealistic justification came one day. Also now there was a mother who did not give up, and someone in the police who did not give up, who forced others to see what lay obvious today, and who in retrospect has proved to turn the matter from carnage to killing. There has been a lot of public mention of these evidence, of why the case was dismissed. It was internal police investigators who asked to look at the matter again, but who were asked to stay away. Witnesses were not questioned. The police waited three months before a mysterious call was examined, left other messages lying, and in spite of broken windows, spices that lay strewn round, a mobile phone that was gone, and a hard knot on a belt around the neck of the eight-year-old, the police thought that the scene did not bear the mark of burglary. An investigator announced these circumstances to his/her lawyer, and the matter was subsequently resumed. Now a man is accused in the matter. These children have entered our history as a heartbreaking and senseless testimony to reality, and it has quite rightly spread a false feeling that something is seriously wrong when such matters do not get top priority in the police. Is it true in Norway that child abuse and child abuse are still such a dark chapter in our legal history? How many cases have been poorly investigated and dismissed without the question of guilt or innocence being answered? What happens now? Is it still the case that when the victim is a child, matters are more often blamed, preferably with lack of investigation? We need an answer to this. Is it really the case that the prosecution continues to believe in the myth that parents cannot harm their children? Does the prosecution and the police believe that carnage is common among small children? Do they at all seek advice in professional environments that can do anything about this? For the professional environments exist! I don't know the answer. That's why I'm going to go up this interpellation, not to hear more about your focus and focus on data and action plans without money and content, but to hear how to check that what you decide is happening, and what consequences it will have for those responsible if they don't do what you've decided. I also do this because we have now agreed in many rounds that this does not have to happen again. Then it goes wrong anyway. I know that if this had been me, if I had been found this way, with great damage to the scalp and nose and swallowing step full of paper, crushed windows and a belt tied around the neck, the police would have done anything to resolve that matter. But when the victim is a little child, I'm not as sure anymore. The children depend on us adults caring for them, including in the judiciary, and here there has to be a change of attitude in the police. It must be initiated, fronted and followed up from the highest political level when it does not help that the Riksadvokat says his own. Because the Riksadvokat has said this through a circular. In 2002, he gave a clear and clear signal that family violence should be given priority, and that no one should doubt what he meant, he wrote that such cases should be given priority in the police district proceedings if there was a shortage of resources. He also added: ‘The cases shall be resolved as far as advice is concerned and unnecessary bedtime shall be avoided both in the case of investigators and in the case of lawyers.’ Last February, in its Roundtable of Priorities on cases of serious violence against young children, the Riksadvokat wrote that they are: ‘Required research and prosecution, and must be dealt with with with with particular care. [[...]] We stress the need for effective and thorough investigation. The Advocate General recalls that Kripos has developed a wide range of expertise in this area and that it is already appropriate to consider requesting assistance from it in the preliminary investigations.» This came in February last year, and I really hope that this is now being put into practice. We already know that many things have dusted down, and that it can go on for many years from reporting to legal proceedings. Who then has the responsibility when the lawyer has obviously done his part of the job? Do the police officers ensure that the Riksadvokat’s priorities are followed up and that family violence is given priority? What happens when the police officer fails? Little or nothing has it looked like. I have seen that someone has been punished because the cases have remained lying for a long time, but it stops there – as far as I know. It is even such that if the cases remain for a long time, the perpetrators may receive a penalty discount because the matter has remained lying for a long time. And while the perpetrator can get shorter time in prison when the police don't do their job, the violent children become the losers, even in this section. Children depend on adults to take care of them, including in the judiciary. This is where the other reactions have to be. How deterrent is the reaction to child abusers in society when the investigation first has a low priority and the prison sentence is then reduced? Someone's calling for a Barne-Kripos. It is obvious that the police do not have enough competence in family violence matters, but I am not sure that a Barne-Kripos is the best. The Advocate General reminds us that Kripos has already developed a wide range of expertise in this area and that they are already to be used in the preliminary investigations. Why isn't Kripos used? Children's Ombudsman Anne Lindboe says she is generally concerned about the legal security of the child. That's what SV agrees with. The Children's Ombudsman says: ‘There is insufficient investigation into violence against children.’ She also says that she doesn't think it's a good solution with her own national unit for violence against children, but that: ‘The police should organise their work differently from today and have large, robust investigative environments. Now there are too many scattered around in small environments and researching such things. It is extremely difficult to investigate violence and abuse against children, and, of course, murder cases as well. We need great family violence with interdisciplinary, broad competence and experienced prosecution lawyers. There are often large tournaments among them [[...]] The same applies to the Crisis Centre Secretariat. They say that working on these issues is too low, that many people who work on it are trying to get away, and that therefore you are not working out enough skills to solve the difficult issues. We are faced with a police reform, and it must help us to help get the skills and pressure on these matters that are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e997	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue with a very serious backtrace. So I also have to mention, as the interpellant is probably familiar with, that I as the Council of State cannot go into or comment on individual matters in the way that parts of this interpellation add up to. Therefore, my answer has to be essentially general. I come almost immediately from the launch of the government’s new action plan against violence and sexual abuse against children and young people – A good childhood lasts its life. The plan was presented at a large conference on this topic, which four state councils have agreed to organise. Violence and child abuse are among the worst forms of crime, and the fight to ensure that children are given primary priority in the police, prosecution and policy areas is crucial. The government is constantly working to improve efforts in this area, and the new action plan points to a number of work in the future. Violence against children and violence in families is a priority area in the fight against crime. It is underlined in the government's new target structure for the justice sector, how serious crime should be prioritised, and it is underlined in the Riksadvokat's objective and priority circular to the police and state lawyers, from which the interpellant himself referred. It appears that cases of such violence need to be dealt with with with with particular seriousness, as the interpellant said, and that instruction can only take place after all the causes and responsibilities have been tested. Priority shall be given to priority cases of resource scarcity. The Chief of Police is responsible for giving the necessary precedence to all matters in the district falling under the priorities of the Advocate General. In the draft state budget, the government proposes to grant money to 50 new police law posts that will help to strengthen the investigation competence in these kinds of cases. The Attorney General has as one of his duties the task of professional management directed at the police. This means, among other things: ensuring that the priorities are followed up in the police districts and ensuring that the investigation is of high quality. The draft budget to the Government also proposes a strengthening of the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office, which will allow for increased and better professional management. We propose to strengthen the higher prosecution authority with 19 years' work, of which 12 are state attorney's offices. In addition, funds have been put in place to ensure that state lawyers pay competitively, to save us from too high a turnover. In cases of suspicious deaths that have been investigated, where the police are in favour of an order, it has also been decided that the further issue of the order should now be decided by the state attorney, not the police, but the police should provide a reasoned recommendation as a basis for the decision of the State Attorney. This is the result of the new guidelines from the National Attorney General to the State attorneys. The Advocate General has also set up a working group to examine the investigation and the prosecution of the death in the specific case referred to between the date of the death and the date of the decision to resume the investigation. The study shall be conducted as soon as possible and the deadline shall be set by the end of January 2015 at the latest. The purpose of this survey is to identify whether police and prosecution training can be withdrawn from the work done during that period. In its report to the Advocate General, the Group shall provide advice on how to implement possible learning points at police and prosecution authorities, thus contributing to the quality of work in the future. So the interpellant has a good point when she says that maybe we've learned too badly in the past. The police analysis also shows that one has too poor powers in the police to learn from their own mistakes and also learn from those who do it better. This is a work on which the Directorate of Police now has a high focus, to ensure that ‘best practice’ is spread, while at the same time learning from the shortcomings that exist and the mistakes that have been made. The police specialty unit has launched a broad investigation on the basis of notification against persons involved in the preliminary part of the investigation into the specific case. Only when a person knows the outcome of the team’s investigations and the special unit’s investigations will there be a basis for drawing conclusions on how the case was handled by the police and the prosecution authority. I would also like to stress that the matter is still under investigation. Independently of this, it has been decided to set up a separate group at Kripos, which will have the task of examining unsolved cases, known as cold cases, with a view to assessing further investigation into past cases. The creation of the Group is linked to an annual political commitment, combined with the recent removal of the limitation period by the Storting of the most serious crimes of violence and morality. In many such cases, it may be essential to look at the matter with fresh eyes and a whole new look to get on with it. A 2013 report from the Police Directorate shows that there is a need to look at both the capacity and quality of the investigation in the police and the general conditions of the investigation. The report proposes inter alia: strengthening the investigation's position in the Norwegian police. This report is now being followed up in the Police Directorate, in cooperation with the National Attorney. A number of measures, which are also part of the evaluations of the police analysis, will be implemented. This includes, inter alia: harmonisation of police handling of criminal cases, standardisation of tools, procedures and methods, systematic experience learning and establishment of more robust, robust and specialised disciplines. I follow this up in the governance dialogue with the companies, both through the ordinary management documents and in my meetings with the business managers. With regard to police work on issues of violence in close relations, including violence against children, efforts have been considerably intensified in recent years. Several initiatives have been taken to improve police work on such issues, both in prevention and in criminal proceedings. Matters of violence in close relationships in general, and violence against children in particular, can be challenging for the police to investigate. Often the police role is put to the test in these matters. Here, attitudes and competences of individual officials mean a lot. Competence and understanding in the problem area are essential. That is why we are working to improve the competence of the Norwegian police on violence in close relationships, including violence and abuse against children. An important measure is the system of family violence coordinators in the country’s police district. They shall coordinate the overall efforts of the police district in the area of family violence. Similarly, coordinators for sexual abuse have been established in the police districts. In some districts, these tasks are handled by the same person. Several districts also have their own teams with a cross-border role in the investigation of family violence and issues of sexual abuse. It is also possible to set up their own teams in specific investigation cases. In the most serious cases, Kripos can provide assistance. Good investigation and follow-up of the cases require that the police are professionally up-to-date. Annual collections of family violence coordinators are one of the measures contributing to increased competence and sharing of experience. The national competence sharing portal KO:DE is also important. In addition, violence in close relationships is part of police basic training. The questioning of children by judges may form part of the investigation as evidence of criminal proceedings. Most of the hearings take place today in a children’s home, and all police districts have competence in child questioning. There has been criticism of too long waiting for child questioning. It's a criticism that the government has taken seriously. Measures have been implemented which have led to an average waiting time of 52 days, and it is now down to 45, and before the end of the year it will be down to 40. There's still too long waiting, but now at least the arrow shows the right direction. This is the result of a proper effort through the focus of police districts on this, and a proper follow-up across the line, where I have conversations with the police director about this, and the police director follows it up with the police officers in the dialogue they have. The Ministry of Justice and Defence is also working on a new legislative proposal and the corresponding regulation on a new childcare system, which comes next year. There is also the question of the compulsory use of children's housing affected, and also the question of who should be responsible for the hearings. We also introduce the SARA risk assessment tool in all the police districts of the country, which will help to identify the risks of further partner violence and to implement the necessary security measures. In addition, a new project, SARA for children, is now being worked on to see how to exploit the same type of tool in relation to children who are subjected to violence. Initially, I mentioned the government's new action plan against violence and abuse against children and young people. Here we are strengthening efforts in all sectors, because it is not just the police trail that is important in the fight against violence and child abuse. Among other things, measures are being taken to address the uncertainty of the auxiliary apparatus as regards disclosure obligations and professional secrecy. In order to identify bottlenecks, we will review issues of violence and sexual abuse against children, from notification until the case is settled in the judicial system, to find learning points. An expert group will be set up to look at the corresponding sample of issues. The measures now being taken, both under the authority of the National Attorney and the Police Directorate, and of course followed up by the Department, will help to strengthen our efforts at all stages in the police and prosecution authorities' work on violence and child abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1058	I thank you for the answer, and I understand, at what the Council of State says, that he takes this very seriously. Then it's all about the things that get started now, and that's been started before, but it's primarily about making sure that what you say and decide is done, and that if it's not done, something has to happen. I understand that the Council of State cannot go into the individual cases, but I may miss that he is a little more cash than he was in his post on these matters, which he is otherwise in criminal policy – because when something happens wrong, the Council of State has been quite clear that when you do bad things, which have bad consequences, it has to have a consequence for a sail too. I miss a little bit of that in the articles of the Council of State. I'm glad he mentions especially these tools, SARA and SARA for children, but there are also tools that you have said for years to be implemented, but that won't be. It has to be followed that they are actually being implemented, and that this becomes the competence of the various police officers, because it is absolutely necessary that they have it. You have to look, understand what you're looking at and grabbing at it. So I fully agree with the Council of State on that. It's about getting late as early as possible, but being able to avert it is, of course, the best thing. To this end, with the police organization in the future: I expect this to be given the priority that the Council of State now says it should have in the future to organise the police in new ways, and I will challenge the Council of State to say a little about how this will have consequences for the new police reform, in such a way that we are sure that this will actually take priority in the individual police districts and where police work is carried out. I'm glad the Council of State stresses the obligation to report, because that's what it is. It's actually a duty to report to all of us. When we know and when we see something about children, the obligation to notify them is covered by the obligation of professional secrecy. This can't be said too many times, because it's used as an excuse. Finally, the UN Children’s Committee says that once we have made commitments to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, sufficient financial resources are to be set aside to implement measures. Children’s homes must then be given higher priority, and concrete measures in the action plan against violence against children must also be accompanied by money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1071	I broadly agree with all that the interpellant now said from the pulpit. I would like to say a little bit about the specific areas in which she challenged me. One is about what kind of follow-up you're going to have in saying that you're betting on something. I have regular updates meetings with the Riksadvokat. The prosecution authority is a completely independent entity that has its own priorities, but we have a dialogue in which we discuss that kind of thing, without any influence whatsoever. The prosecution authority and the prosecution authority’s priorities are independent. I also have monthly follow-up visits to the POD on the police investigation and the priority of this type of investigation in the various police districts. This is what has led us to reach, for example: have seen a proper development in the waiting time for child questioning and other vulnerable people, where it is now going down for once, and we are going to approach the legal deadline as soon as possible. The children's houses are already highly priorityed. The resource situation and the number of children’s homes are now – according to the information I have – what is needed. Then you have to follow that development to see how it might change, but the most important thing now is that we have an interrogation system that allows you to use the children's home even more effectively. There we have – as I mentioned – this work on changes to the Criminal Procedures Act and new regulations on the steps. The representative, Andersen, is asking for a clear speech, and I can promise that my speech is 100 pst. be ready in this area. Violence and sexual assault on children are one of the worst crimes we have. It's a social problem, also because it's a taboo area. The Children's Ombudsman said at the conference I pointed out instead, that ten years ago almost no mention was made of violence and sexual abuse against children. It was then the Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum who really put violence in close relations on the agenda, which later governments have also followed up. And it's important that there's cross-political strength behind that commitment. It is both to implement concrete measures and also to dare to talk about it in public space and to be clear about what kind of expectations we have for our citizens to do what they can to help people out of such a situation. It's about caring – not about caring. Finally, Andersen's representative pointed out in his contribution to the challenge that there are small research environments. We have 27 police districts, which are very differently equipped. It also creates a major challenge for research – especially in these kinds of cases, where special skills are needed. It is one of the main aims of police reform. In addition to providing a close police force, it is another important perspective that it should provide a robustness and professional experience in the field of investigation that will give you the special competence needed to investigate thoroughly and properly sexual abuse and violence against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1086	Let me first – as the Council of State – thank the interpellant for raising this very important topic. Violence in close relationships is a subject that has many points of view and that can be debated on the basis of the responsibilities of very many government councils. When the representative Karin Andersen chooses to angle this evil issue based on the weakest, children, and – in addition – in the situation where the worst has happened, and address the question to the Minister of Justice, she also addresses the question of competence and capacity for police investigation. Let me nevertheless allow me to take a slightly wider starting point. In the Workers' Party, we have chosen to set up an internal group working on the theme of 'violence in close relations'. Within the group, we have representatives from all relevant committees – the Justice Committee, the Family and Culture Committee, the Church, Education and Research Committee, the Labour and Social Committee, the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Similarly, all government councils covering these policy areas could have taken part in today's debate. When the problem is complex, it is also necessary to embrace wide-ranging solutions. It's about prevention. In order to prevent it, we need the ability to see. In order to be able to see, we need to have knowledge, procedures to manage anxiety messages, resources to get in early and to provide acute protection to mothers and children who break out, housing and work offers, etc. We need people with good competence in investigation and questioning, and we need a legal system to handle matters properly. Recently, the Workers' Party's working group against violence in close relations organized a mini-seminar here at Stortinget. The Children's Ombudsman was one of several good initiators. She told about the Barneombussen, who was recently traveling in Eastfold and arranged a meeting with school students, along with health sisters. The message was: we need to talk to children about assault. After the collection, which was too little more than 70 children, there were 14 children who went to the health care sister to tell them about things they had been exposed to. This kind of conversation is something that the police should also be involved in. The interpellant has mentioned some of the issues that have shaped the media lately, the events that everyone thought should not happen again – not after Christoffer. I think you understand that sea, Christoffer always answered when he was asked where all the damage came from. Why didn't anyone call the bells? Why did it take such a long time to make someone responsible? Some people are researching this. They're telling us that 50 pst. by all men who use violence against partners, also use violence against the children. They say that children are present at 80-90 pst. of between-parent rape episodes. They say that the first thing that needs to happen when adults go to help or police and tell about abuse at home is to find out if there are children in the picture, and always — if yes — make sure that the children are examined by qualified health professionals and have a talk with qualified interviewers. How do you get so qualified? We are now in a completely different area from that for which the Minister of Justice is really responsible, as it is about education – by health professionals, child workers and youth workers, child protection workers, teachers, kindergarten staff, socionomists, but also by policemen – who were also involved in the Council of State. However, the majority of those active in these occupational groups today have learned something in particular about violence in close relationships, even though this has now come into play, for example. basic training of police officers. I ask myself, is it time to impose violence on our educational institutions in close relations as a compulsory part of relevant education? As politicians – in a little misunderstood respect for the integrity of education – have we failed to do something that we should have done for the longest time? Some higher education institutions, e.g. in Buskerud and in Westfold, have offers but not mandatory. Some of those who go there pay NOK 30 000 out of their own pocket, because continuing training is not a priority for the employer. This fall, there are few policemen there. At the end of the day, a topic not covered by the Minister of Justice, but the Minister of Emergency Affairs: We have discussed a lot of preparedness in recent years – preparedness for terror, preparedness for race and flood – but when did we discuss preparedness for child-reared lives? In Drammen Arbeiderparti, which I belong to, we adopted last week's election program for the next municipal government period. We want violence in close relationships as a primary task for the municipal emergency services. There are management representatives in all relevant offices in both state, state and municipality. The main task is precisely to identify scale, identify weaknesses, close cooperation gaps, fill in the absence of competence, prepare for action when adverse events occur, and, last but not least, prevent through systematic and ongoing cooperation. The idea is given with pleasure for the free use of more, hopefully for the benefit of the children at risk of violence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1103	Let me also thank the interpellant. Her strong reactions carried out in a very good way from this pulpit emphasize the seriousness of the matter. These are simple events that hit us all hard, of course the hardest for those who are closest. But it underlines the political responsibility to do what we can to prevent this from happening again and again. I would also like to thank the Council of State for his good response, which promises great and important perspectives. Our task in this debate and in our work in the future will be to reconcile with the overall political responsibility, the closest personal focus that the inter-pellant understands enough and in a good way. That's where I think the Council of State pulled those strings together in a very good way. Firstly, we need systems, procedures, competence and quality to deal with the matter when the damage has occurred. In many ways, that's the starting point, as I interpret the interpellant. We got today the action plan with the name A good childhood lasts life. It also contains many good measures in that field. We now have a judicial budget for the next year under consideration in the Committee on Justice, which is largely and systematically addressing what the inter-pellant points to. It is to expand both the capacity and the quality of police investigation environments and the prosecution authority. 69 years' work is within the budget. It's longed for, it's wanted, and it's going to be useful not least in this field, I'm sure. I would also like to mention that in the Justice budget there is a proposal for 350 new posts in the police force. Norway is likely to have among the world’s most skilled and highly educated police forces, and it is clear that this capacity and competence is of great benefit also in detecting crime against children. So that's important. It is gratifying that the waiting time for court hearings at children’s homes has fallen from 52 to 45 days during this government. But there is a long time left, and I am pleased that the Council of State underlines that it is still going to be working on getting that waiting time further down. Then there's the police reform, where everything indicates that we're getting bigger police districts, and the main result is that there's going to be bigger trade unions in every police district. I have so much confidence in the police, despite these events, that when they manage to gather, gain experience in a better way under better management, we have done an important and correct grip from this accumulation by facilitating larger trade unions. I would also like to point out the general disengagement obligation that applies to us all as Norwegian citizens, either as individuals or as public servants, and which is enshrined in Section 139 of the Criminal Act, which goes beyond and outside the obligation of professional secrecy. The obligation of professional secrecy is laid down in a wide range of laws, with the best intentions, but there is a general consideration laid down in the abolition obligation of criminal law, which requires the prevention of injustice. It might have to be clearer for more people. As far as prevention is concerned, we also have a major political responsibility to ensure that the damage does not occur. This action plan is a good starting point for this, and I also refer to the State budget for next year, where there are 200 million. extra for health stations and school health services. There's a lot of prevention in it. I also want to mention the 27 million. kr. extra as an offer to violent families and family protection. Early prevention is very important in those budget lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1118	Let me join those who give the interpellant credit for raising a difficult and challenging debate. If this had been a simple debate, we wouldn't have done our job, but that it's as demanding as it is, is in itself clear where we want to go. I think that although it is tragic that we have to have the debate, it is a quality that we just have it. If we had ignored it, we would not have set up and taken the responsibility we actually have. I'm going to start a completely different place. I'm going to start with the Baneheia case. I guess most people here remember – unfortunately, I kept saying – the Baneheia case. One of the things that was a challenge there was, among other things. the assessment of evidence. In the course of the trial, there was a discussion about access to evidence obtained by the police, where the forensic institute went in and said they thought this was wrong. The good thing about this was that the Riksadvokat gradually went in, cut through and was clear about who decides what evidence can be used – that's the court. So it's the way that the underlying agencies don't have that role, and they don't have to play that role. Then why is this mentioned? Well, I'm just doing it because even the worst and most difficult things are going to help us get better in the future. If we don't ignore the most difficult of all, that's to learn when it's at all, the most difficult. Although much of this is probably due to mental challenges, I would say that Norwegian police are consistently good. Already in my second summer here at Stortinget, I visited the Forensics Institute. It was a challenging experience, but what impressed me was how many wonderful good people were there. The first summer here, I was at Kripos – and I had exactly the same experience. When you get to see through some of the reality pictures that show what Kripos is into every day, and which other policemen are in, I take off my hat for them and give them credit for the job they do. That doesn't mean we're perfect, but that means that Norwegian police are doing a good job on a continuous basis in relation to their responsibilities. When, unfortunately, they are sometimes not where they should have been – as the interpellant had in mind and mentioned examples – at least the answer is quite clear that we must gain experience from it. We have to be clear in our commissioning role as politicians to the department, which again has to take responsibility downwards. If we don't, we're indirectly with and punishing those who have suffered the greatest losses, and I think that's immoral, it's unethical, and it fails the political role. That is why this is a good and important debate. Learning, as the Council of State and interpellant had in mind in terms of experience, is the key to caring, the key to taking things forward. I also feel that the Minister of Justice and the Government through the Action Plan are clear on where to go. If you didn't care, you could just say that you expect the police to handle this, but you don't. Several government councils join forces, and the government stands up and takes this further. You're also clear on what you want, what you expect this to lead to. I am also pleased that proposals have now been submitted to a quality group such as: The state council and representative Ulf Leirstein have been a driving force to achieve this, for it shows an attitude – it shows that we are going to learn from past mistakes and weaknesses. That is our duty, and of course we shall continue to do so. I am very pleased that the Council of State is so clear on its position in the system. The last thing I want is a government council that assumes investigative responsibilities, or assumes chargeable responsibilities, because it's not the job of the Council of State. Then you've broken to the degrees some of what's general, that's to have your own understanding of your own position in a system. Just as the Storting is not in government, so the members of the government are not investigating, they are not in charge of prosecution. So I'm very pleased that the Council of States is so clear on these things. All in all, I hope, of course – just as others have been – that we will not have more debates of this kind. I dare not guarantee it, for at last it depends on the quality of the individual official or woman out there who certainly does the best they can, but in a tough and hectic everyday life it is well that even in this house you do things you would like to see done. One uses the wording and opinions one should see differently afterwards. I think that unfortunately applies to the police as well. The day we have a flawless society, it's not even certain that we need the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1140	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a very important and good interpellation. I think it's a good way to mark the 25th anniversary of the United Nations Children's Convention. The interpellant has taken on another terrible case, where we see that what was not going to happen happened again, and once again it was the hard work of the relatives that caused the case to be reopened. Everyone agrees that of course it should not be. Then comes the question of whether the police have sufficient competence, and whether they give priority to issues where there is violence against children, loud enough. My answer is no! I find it sad to say that, but my clear answer is that competence is not good enough, and that matters are not high enough today. If you look at what's priority, you'll see, for example. that the investigation will take a long time. In some cases it takes an extremely long time. There are complex issues, but you can see that it is a priority to choose resources to get matters implemented more quickly. If you look at pay, there is clear feedback that if you chose to prioritize pay higher, you might have had it clear – as the interpellant was about – to let go of a huge ‘tour over’, that people are moving, either because they are going to use their enormous skills in other fields, or because they think it is exciting to choose other fields, or because pay is higher. Then we come back to competence, because when the penetration is so large, you can't build up the robust environments that are needed. Violence against children is a huge social problem. If you look at the numbers, it's been a huge change. In 2006, 81 cases of violence against children were reported. Last year 1791 cases were reported. It's a dramatic change, and even though it's scary to say it, it's to the positive, because things come to light. Probably the darkest numbers have been even bigger before. So all the honor and "creed" of those who have been on and put this in focus, and who have made things come to light. It shows the enormous responsibility and the enormous scope of the matter. It also shows that a broad approach is crucial. As we have debated in this matter, and as the interpellant was also involved, it is about something more than just justice policy. It's about good family policy, it's about health, it's about school, it's about kindergarten, it's about kindergarten, it's about health. It's about revealing things earlier and about preventing them. One could also have mentioned the matter that was here in Oslo not long ago – the matter with the teenager where no one saw anything, or it might be right to say that no one said anything, because it might perhaps have been averted if you had been more good at saying from, which was also the representative Werp. Then it's about the important job to do before we get to justice. It is essential to succeed in the reform of the police, and I also think in this sense that it will mean having bigger and more robust police districts, which have a good enough competence and are able to deal well enough with these matters. It is also a matter of priority. Today, the government presented the action plan. Now I've just been scrambled. It shows a holistic and multidisciplinary approach that is good. But I should have seen perhaps even more focus on the fact that violence in close relations must become a major part of police training. Today, there are only four points of study last year at the Police College, where one takes care to meet victims of violence in close relationships. That may not be good enough to equip students for the important task they get. Nor is it signaled a strengthening of the state's children's home. We know that in 2013 there were 2,662 court hearings. The average waiting time in 2013 was 57 days. It is too long when the statutory deadline for matters of morality is 14 days. And there you can also see priorities, because you can go from children's home to children's homes to see how the police have prioritised matters – there are huge differences. So I am pleased that the Minister of Justice, and also the majority of the Grand Duchy, have put this matter on the table. I would also say that when the police director in the media for a few weeks suggested that the deadline should be 30 days, it is a dangerous signal. It's a signal of down-priority. If an adult person is hit, the person is questioned as soon as possible. Children should also be interrogated as soon as possible and, if necessary, a new hearing should be held. If we're going to succeed in prioritizing this, we're going to succeed in the competence, we're all going to have to give the higher priority, and then we're going to have to send other signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1163	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing a special important theme into the storeroom. Crime that affects children, and that in its ultimate consequence takes the lives of children, sparks a debate in this room. The theme may not only appear on the agenda every time there are large requests for media; it must also appear on the agenda continuously. Children who live daily under tragedy if chosen or under terror to be killed are in an inhuman situation. This is about the most vulnerable of all of us. And as everyone knows, we are being shaped by our own childhood. Many of us have read the gripping book about Christoffer-saka, written by Jon Gangdal. It's a story that should serve as a textbook in how things can go all wrong in auxiliaries as well as in the police. A question that can be asked after reading such a story is how this is possible, and how we can ensure that this does not happen again. What do all the things we don't get right about through the media searchlight – the issues that are never investigated because of sharp shots between health care, child protection and the police? I read a chronicle written by a person who works to investigate matters with authority against children, and I notice the following wording: "By getting rid of naivety, we are helping to increase the safety of children." In these words there is a lot. We cannot compromise with the children's legal certainty. It is not inconceivable, even though it is totally in front of many of us, that infants are subjected to election, or that children are killed as a result of the injuries. The point from the political point of view must be how we can improve the systems and methods to prevent such things from happening again. One thing is what the governance signal we give, and what the Riks lawyer and police officers give for resource access and priorities, but when it comes to detecting crime against children, it can't be on money. In recent years, much has been done in the field of research of this type of crime. Children’s homes have been established, which should ensure that children’s outreach is done in the best possible way – to ensure good evidence in the early stages of research. In addition, these are often coordinated with medical examinations. This is a bet area we should build on, and not weaken. We have to make sure that the police secure evidence early, and that in those cases where one is at least in doubt that a child may be at risk of crime, all available measures must be taken. In addition, we need to focus on research on the theme in order to improve the level of knowledge about how to detect and prevent crime against children. Of course, technology is moving forward, and one can discover criminal acts using new tools. This is the tool we're going to use. In Christoffer's case, this proved to be decisive, with a complete examination of the site only being carried out many hours after the event, and the perpetrators actively removed the tracks. So one should be very careful about going into matters that are still under investigation. There the police now do their job, and then we will see the outcome when there may be a rightful decision. But I'm very busy learning from previous cases – that police investigators and the judiciary achieve a higher level of competence in renting research in these specific cases. We have to take the debates in public space. We must dare to talk about individual things in history, so that the fates that have been are not forgotten. It is important for me from this chair to clarify the importance of cooperation between child protection, health care, school attendance and the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1197	There are people in our society who live so far out on the shadows of life that they hardly think, unless the floodlights are turned on and directed in their direction. Many of them are kids, many of them have sleepless nights, lost childhood, lost school, since becoming a loser in work. I would like to thank the interpellant for directing the flood light in the right direction today. But I would also like to thank the government for presenting an action plan against violence and sexual abuse against children. There we see many measures, some recognisable measures, that several of us have worked with before. But I miss one thing, and what I miss most is money. I lack funds that can make good intentions and fine plans actually noticed in the everyday lives of vulnerable children. No one believes that roads are built without money. Resources are also needed to build childhood. We know that violence in close relationships is a major social problem. We know that too many, many more than we think are affected by violence, and we know that the most serious societal problems also always have a child's perspective. We know that it can be as harmful to witness violence as to experience violence itself, that it can be as harmful to see Mom be subjected to violence as it is actually to experience blows or terror on her own body. That's why I'm glad we got the legal right to crisis centres, because today we have a child's perspective on crisis centres, but we still lack the opportunity to live in security when you've come out of the hidden crisis centre, namely, transitional homes in order to reestablish you and live in security. Governments mentioned family violence coordinators, who make an incredibly important effort and are an invaluable contribution to the fight against violence against children. I myself, by being the head of child protection in my home municipality, have experienced a good cooperation with the family violence coordinator, who cannot be praised enough by anyone. At the same time, we know that JURK, legal legislation for women, has produced a report that shows that the family violence coordinators, even if they are employed in 100 p.m. The job position, which has more than one task added to the job, is that they do not actually work full time with it. I think that might be a challenge in the future. It's about the means that we've spent on the problems, we also have to make sure that we use them for the problems. At the same time, we need to be sure that the police are there when necessary. Then we need a close police force, and we need an accessible police force. Therefore, it was disappointing to see that, even though it was decided to strengthen the police with 350 new posts, none of them came far north, to Finnmark, and we also have trustees in the police who contact and report concerns to large areas to cover as a result of the work being underway. At least they fear it -- you see what the result is. Accessibility in terms of population is a challenge, but availability in terms of area is also a dimension when it comes to a safe and close police force that can be there in the case, and preferably before it is too late. Many have said that neither the competence nor cooperation in violence against children is good enough today. We can agree on that. As a result, an increased pressure on local efforts is also needed. I miss several local action plans, not for the sake of plans, but for the sake of cooperation. Several departments are behind the action plan we have seen today, and I look forward to taking a deeper look at it, but we still need an increased pressure on local efforts by putting child protection, police, health centre, user organisations and trade unions in place and seeing how we can see together kids in our communities, and having a clear strategy and role-sharing to actually help them and shed light on the shadows of life, so that everyone can get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1210	First, thank you to the interpellant for raising a very important, serious and difficult topic. Before I get started on today's topic, in order to say that, I have to repeat to the previous speaker that in the case of the 350 police posts proposed in the state budget, they are not yet fully allocated. So here's the absolute hope that new police positions can come to Finnmark. The two issues that underlie today's interpellation have one common feature: they were outsiders, people outside the police, which meant that the police had to take a new course and take matters up again. In the Christoffer case, it was a critical national lawyer and an insistent aid lawyer. When the police conclude that children have taken their own lives, that self-harm has been death as an exit, there is reason to be on guard – then the alarm clocks should ring. Children rarely take their own lives, children have a very little developed ability to take their own lives. When Christoffer, a boy of eight years, was found dead with a 17-cm-long cut in the skull, it turned out afterwards that it was not self-harm but violence inflicted by others. Investigating these kinds of things is hard, and we're going to have respect for that. The naivety, credulity and a glance turned away make it difficult to discover this and investigate it. The police's way into these matters is often through child protection warnings or a notification from a hospital, where there is an inexplicable difference between the child's injuries and the explanation given by the close relatives to cause the damage. The State Attorney has taken action in the Monika case. The investigation and prosecution work shall be carried out during the examination: Where did it fail? Why did it fail? And how can this be prevented in the future? Why not take the signals internally in the police action in order to re-open the case, is also a very interesting question. As the Council of State said in its statement, the government is proposing to strengthen the police force vigorously: 350 new police posts, 50 new police lawyers and 19 new posts in the higher prosecution authority. The Advocate General has said: 'We have been waiting for this for years.' I am also pleased and have noticed with particular interest that the Council of State mentioned how the investigation environment should be strengthened in the police: ‘standardisation of tools, procedures and methods, systematic experience learning and establishment of more robust, robust and specialised disciplines’. For my part, I would like to add, Minister: ‘re-education and certification in the field’. A bit of the philosophy of Norwegian police and investigation is that the student should learn from his master. Yes, once the master was present, but today there is so much penetration that it becomes a little bit little master and a little bit much that the student learns from the student. There is a need to strengthen post-graduate education both at the Police College and, not least, for police officers who have entered the investigation and need to be filled in professionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1229	Government posts were a good and tidy presentation. We must have great respect for the fact that he cannot go very deeply into individual matters that are under investigation. We must also be careful as big-scale representatives. But we can allow ourselves some considerations, and in particular I feel as a representative from the Hordaland County that I have to allow myself some considerations about the Monika case that have been in the Healthy Municipality. What we saw in that matter was mildly said very little reliable. You don't have to have a lot of insight into police work, police structures, or jus to realize that things could and should have been done differently. But in all the tragedy and in the storm of events, detections and reactions, we must also remember that we have some security mechanisms that will work when everything else fails. Those security mechanisms have worked in a way – unfortunately too late, unfortunately too heavy, never optimal and unfortunately perhaps also due to external people and external pressure, perhaps due to good journalistic work. But the mechanisms were there. We have e.g. a complaint mechanism which, after much and persistent efforts, has led to the resumption of the investigation. The special unit is connected, and the National Attorney has notified an external investigation and a thorough review of the case in order to draw experience from the investigation that has been carried out. These are legal security mechanisms that we should be pleased with, which we should call about, but which are our responsibility to make sure that work better in the future. We also have a financial responsibility. For example, the higher prosecution authority has for a long time announced that they have not been able to perform their supervisory function properly. Hopefully, it will be corrected in the state budget we are to adopt in this Chamber in a short time. The second thing we have to do is to increase police investigation competence in matters like these, and to take decisions that will allow justice to happen once the disaster has occurred. Here, the Council of State has already outlined a number of good actions: a cold case group; a number of measures in the police case to raise the quality of police investigations; family violence coordinators in all police districts; special teams to investigate family violence and sexual abuse; improvement of judicial hearings; a residual power in the children’s homes; the introduction of the risk assessment tool SARA; and, in particular, the new action plan against violence and abuse against children and young people. These are measures that, hopefully, will equip the police to deal with cases where the most humiliating of the most humiliating crimes have been committed, namely attacks and violence against children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1240	I would like to thank you for the debate. Such things are difficult, and sometimes words become both a little flat and stupid. It is said that a good childhood lasts life. I would rather say that both a good and a bad childhood lasts for generations. But what we've brought up here today is that someone can't even experience it. There's obviously a lot to do, and I'm glad. But there will always be scarcity of resources. Then it must be a priority to prioritize, and not that it will come at all. It is a challenge I have to the Council of State in the end here: it is in the police's hands that this is actually happening – that priority is given to organising, giving priority to raising competences, to following up and checking that this is actually happening. Priority must also mean that we put a label on the money. I know the government wants you to expand, for example. the school health service as a very important prevention measure. I agree. But if we don't label the money, it might as well be asphalt. Then, suddenly, local self-government is more important than helping these children where they are. And then it's not a priority. Then it's: Use the money for whatever you want. That's why you have to label the money. So the representative Lise Christoffersen said that we have to be equally attentive, and perhaps also organise it that way, that preparedness work is also about this. Children and adults — some men too — live in the field of terror all the time. They know who the terrorist is, too. The police also often know who the terrorist is. But it doesn't help. That's why I also want to challenge the Council of States to see what we can do for example. to use the reverse alarm of violence. It's a mechanism that we've adopted, but that almost isn't being used. Then there may be changes in laws that are necessary to make it possible to use and protect people’s lives and health. Several have been talking about – e.g. The representative of Ropstad – several study credits. There's been a lot of talk about the children's houses. I very much agree that it is serious when someone signals that the 30-day waiting time is appropriate. No, that's not it – it's not appropriate, it's too long. We have to have a goal that says this is going to happen right away. There are several who have also called for further training and specialisation to be carried out in a different way, but it is important that this be done both in the police and in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1255	Let me first say a little about the reverse alarm of violence, which the interpellant finally picked up. We're going to follow it up and see to what extent this is being used by the courts. So far it's used in relatively few cases, and we have to evaluate this after a while. But we need to have experience figures on how the courts have chosen to use that instrument, which can be a very important tool, especially in the kind of cases where there is a conviction for violence in close relationships. I also agree that priority is important as a priority. If earring is the right thing in every context, I'm not as convinced of it, but at least we have to follow up by saying that when we say that this should be a priority in the investigation, that means that it has to go ahead. It is also stated in the Riksadvokat's prioritisation that, in the event of a lack of resources, these matters should take precedence. It's every policeman's duty to make sure that it's actually followed up. So I want to say that there is an incredibly good work going on in the police. These debates are very often based on the issues where it has failed, where it has gone wrong, but we must not sit with the impression that it always goes wrong, because it does not. There is an incredible amount of good work done by the police. The police are working to better implement learning, and the point of the actions that have been carried out so far is to look at what has happened in these specific cases – just to learn. Then I have to say that I think this has been a very good debate, also because it draws a broad perspective that is absolutely crucial when we talk about violence and sexual abuse against children. It's not just a police matter, it's also, as many of the speakers today have been, a question of health care, child protection, social follow-up and school, and it's a question of us as citizens and the responsibility we take as citizens in such a perspective. Then it is affected that there is a great difference between police districts and the ability and ability of police districts to give priority. There's some of the answers in the police analysis, which the interpellant has also been involved in. It is important to get to the combination of the close police and the specialised and highly competent investigation police that we need for these kinds of cases. I am convinced that we will be able to deliver on it together in this Chamber after the adoption of the police reform. So I think we're also going to take with us all the genuine commitment that the posts on this platform have shown. This is a fundamental and crucial foundation for our success. That is why I want to end up with – not a index finger, but something we should remember as responsible politicians: in this kind of situation and this kind of thing, we should be careful about making a political game of what we all really agree on should be given priority. Then we – position and opposition – should play each other good. These kids deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1270	So the debate is on case No. 6 done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1276	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1563	It is voted on over I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1574	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1584	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1640	It shall be counted against I even III.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1651	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1661	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1669	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 by the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce an annual Norwegian climate percentage of climate action abroad, corresponding to one per cent of gross national income [[GNI]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: «In 2014, the government requests the transfer of 25 billion. krone from the State pension fund abroad to the United Nations Green Climate Fund, provided that the fund becomes operational as planned.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1733	There is no voting theme in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-11-20.ana.ud22e1745	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
