ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e51	The representatives Else-May Botten, Margunn Ebbesen, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Nikolai Astrup, Siri A. Meling, Sivert Haugen Bjørnstad and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Buskerud County: Christopher Wand For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen For Hordaland County: Iril Schau Johansen For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen For the county of Rogaland: Øystein Langholm Hansen For Sogn and Fjordane County: Bjørn Erik Hollevik Three permit applications are available: from the representatives Sverre Myrli and Jan Arild Ellingsen on leave from 18 March to 20 March – both to take part in a seminar with NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Sarajevo from the Progress Party Group on the leave of the representative Kristian Norheim from 18 March to 20 March for, following an invitation from the US Embassy, to take part in a trip with the US NATO to Brussels, Germany and Hungary from the Progress Party Group on sick leave for the representatives Tor André Johnsen and Tom E. Holthe from 18 March until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Mani HussainiFor Hedmark County: Hege JensenFor Nordland County: Greta Johanne SolfallFor Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes AmundsenFor Vestfold County: Ellen Eriksen
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e159	Mani Hussaini, Hege Jensen, Greta Johanne Solfall, Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen and Ellen Eriksen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e167	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e170	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Karin Andersen and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the effective enforcement of the reservation ban for doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e175	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e192	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e199	[The record of the post is based only on written script due to the absence of sound recordings. ]: This is a matter for which it has been easy to be the case rapporteur. None of the points raised in the matter have led to major discussions, and I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee. However, such agreement does not mean that all the elements in the matter are so simple to deal with. We deal with legal changes that have a significant impact on the parties involved and precisely on the balance between the interests of the parties when establishing the debt regime, it may be difficult to make the right decisions. This proposition was promoted by the Stoltenberg government. The fact that the new government did not withdraw it underlines, of course, the consensus there is on the solutions that lie in the matter. However, it is important to remember that we have received more input from stakeholder organisations. These enquiries have underlined and made it apparent that small changes can mean a great deal to those facing a difficult debt situation and need to put in place a debt regime. For each debtor, it is a difficult life situation, and it is essential that the scheme helps to brighten both the present and the future. At the same time, it is, of course, essential that creditors be treated with the greatest respect, and that there are flexible solutions that ensure that their legitimate claims are met to the greatest extent possible. The proposals now being presented simplify as far as possible the debt regime issues. This can be achieved, for example, by: the outcome that the previous absolute requirement for self-testing is now absent if it is obvious that this cannot be achieved. All parties are expected to be able to carry out the processes without undue delay or resource use. The proposal for a decision also introduces the necessary adjustments to take account of new patterns of behaviour in the population. One of the most obvious changes to this is the possibility of establishing a debt regime for debtors residing outside Norway. A debt regime is demanding for all parties. Both during the negotiation period, the implementation period and after the period, good knowledge is required of those who are to deal with the cases. To this end, a structure is now being established in which competence can be pooled in order to ensure good knowledge of the procedure. It's reassuring. It is an important principle that during the implementation period the debtor should keep enough for a decent living. It is therefore necessary that the government make an in-depth assessment of these rates in order to find the right level, and it is also important in this work to find rates that maintain the balance between the parties. The objective of the debt regime must be to deal with a difficult situation, to provide the creditor with the best possible care, and not least to facilitate the debtor's restart after settlement. That balance appears to have been well taken care of in the amendments in the case, and it is therefore an overall committee which supports the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e225	[The record of the post is based only on written script due to the absence of sound recordings. ]: Proposals for decisions on amendments to the Debt Schemes Act and the Coverage Act will contribute to more non-discrimination and thus also to greater justice. It will also help to streamline and simplify the procedure, which will benefit everyone. I think it is positive when the proposal for a decision states that there should be sufficient agreement by the lessee when borrowing in the period of the debt negotiation – if the borrowing does not increase in total – which in practice will not burden the ability to pay dividends. Such a mechanism is considered by the members of the Committee to improve both the efficiency of the procedure and the legal certainty of the debtor. I am also pleased to be able to apply for a debt negotiation from abroad, and I support the department's assessments, in particular the conditions for obtaining a debt negotiation or a debt arrangement. I see the need to set standardised rates of living. However, I would like to make it clear that the rates should only have an indicative function and that the financial capacity of the debtor should be essential for a discretionary assessment of the ability to pay. With regard to the amendment that the tax collector decides ‘who lives in Norway’, I am somewhat concerned that the lack of guidance on how to understand this can lead to uncertainty for both debtors and creditors, and result in different practices at the offices of officials. It is important to ensure equal treatment here, as far as possible. It is also positive that proposals for decisions address the challenge of convicted offenders in the rehabilitation phase. Their ability to achieve a debt regime is important for the way back to society. We know that debt among many of these becomes their path back to crime, instead of being cleared up and coming back as good citizens. Everyone I've talked to, says that solving debt issues is absolutely essential for criminals with a past with, for example, a rush to come back to society – with a future without crime. In particular, it is important for a good outcome to be achieved that good and competent environments be established to deal with such issues. The most important thing is that debtors, regardless of the context of the debt situation, are given good opportunities through debt negotiations to get out of a demanding situation and get a safe, fair and dignified future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e252	[Manus not available. The article is held, but is not referenced due to it. non-sound recording.]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e258	[Manus not available. The article is held, but is not referenced due to it. non-sound recording.]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e264	[The record of the post is based only on written script due to the absence of sound recordings. ]: I am pleased that an overall committee is behind this proposal. The proposal for amendments to the Coverage Act is presented in consultation with the Minister of Justice. The proposals aim to create greater justice and predictability for those struggling with financial problems. In addition, the proposals will facilitate simpler and less circumstantial procedures. This will benefit both resource-impaired users of this legislation and provide efficiencies for the professionals and Nav. The amendments to the Debt Regulations Act are mainly about facilitating better conditions for people who, for various reasons, are currently having difficulty making use of the law. Under the law in force, all those seeking a debt regime must have themselves tried to negotiate with the creditors, so-called self-promotion. This requirement has proved difficult to meet for many. It is now proposed to ease this situation, so that the heavy and complex cases can now be dealt with more effectively without self-testing. This will also ease the pressure on the economic advisors in Nav. I am also thinking here of the Nordics who live abroad and others who are related to Norway, who today cannot apply for a debt regime. This has now been proposed by the government to open up. I would also like to mention the proposal to a slightly greater extent to allow criminal convictions in a clear rehabilitation situation to achieve a debt regime. In order for criminals to be returned to society in a good way, it is important that it is also possible to clean up economic problems. The Debt Scheme Act is currently managed by nominees at 328 locations around the country. Many of the offices are small and have little access to matters. This gives little exercise in dealing with this type of case, which in turn may create uncertainty and different practices. It is therefore proposed, in consultation with the Minister of Justice, to limit the number of offices to deal with debt settlement cases. This will provide more issues and a stronger professional environment in the relevant offices. I have noticed that this proposal originally came from the police themselves, and that there seems to be a great deal of agreement on this reform. The details of this will be laid down by the Ministry of Justice. In the case of both the debt regime and the collection of money in the case of drawdowns and other incomes, so-called outlays, it is necessary to determine how much the person who owes the money should retain for his or her own living. For matters under the Debt Scheme Act, the Ministry has set indicative rates for this, while in cases of outlays, there have been no such rates. The Government is now proposing to open the regulatory framework to fix common rates to be applied in both areas. The standard rates shall be a starting point for the discretion to be exercised by the public authorities in each case. The common rate will create greater justice and equality in an area of great well-being for many. The government will make a thorough assessment of both the debtor and the creditors’ needs in setting new rates. The debtor must be guaranteed an acceptable and safe standard of living, while ensuring that recovery can be effective. However, the rate applied to adults in cases under the Debt Scheme Act has been unintentionally high and is aimed at reducing this proportion in relation to the current situation. The rates for children are not set to be reduced. I note with satisfaction that the Committee agrees on the proposals that have been promoted, and I hope that the amendments can enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e304	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e307	[The record of the post is based only on written script due to the absence of sound recordings. ]: Like the other speakers, I am also pleased with the changes in the laws we are making today. In the spring of 2012, I had an interpellation on the Debt Regulations Act. There are in particular two themes from the debate that I would like to ask the current Council of State to take on board. Let me first go back a little bit in time. The Debt Regulations Act was referred to as an innovation when it was dealt with at Stortinget on 15 June 1992. Private individuals in a deep economic crisis would be given the opportunity to relaunch and gain control of their economy. The legal background was developments in the 1980s, with strong credit expansion and strong interest rate increases. Combined with falling property values, this contributed to many having serious debt and payment problems. Dwellings became speculation objects. Strongly contributing to the law were the so - called urban renewal sacrifices in Oslo, there 70 p.m. had to leave their homes and ended up in debt slaves because the apartments were not negotiable. The situation today, with a large build-up of debt in households and in individuals, is getting back to what happened 20–25 years ago. In addition to those with housing debts, there is an increasing number, especially women entrepreneurs, who are given a debt arrangement. Many people may have had too much knowledge of accounting and administration and have been in financial difficulties. In today’s proposal and committee setting, standardised household rates are proposed for use in debt regimes and outlays – a starting point for discretion in the individual case. I want to ask that you don't put yourself on a rate that makes the person fall under the social welfare code. It is difficult to have a debt arrangement, and it must not be such that the solution is to work black. Let me also mention the third paragraph of Section 1-4 of the Act, the provision that the debt regime cannot be given to the same person twice. In one case, a break in life and a stay in a crisis centre led a woman who had had a debt arrangement to end up in a new debt crisis. Result: An employee was disqualified because she was denied second time indebtedness. The debt regime shall have legitimacy in the population and shall not be misused. But sometimes it may be right to give a debt arrangement twice. I'd like to ask the Council of State to evaluate it in the future. Let's remember that this is about people!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e344	[Manus not available. The article is held, but is not referenced due to it. non-sound recording.]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e351	[The post has been kept, but the first part of the post has not been referenced due to: the absence of sound recordings. The last half of the article was printed on the basis of audio recordings, which were then in place after bugfixing. ]: Another thing I know you're working with in the EU is to cover interest on that kind of unsecured debt. [[...]] That's how we, as members of Coop, can get an offer from Coop about a credit card that says that just you trade on chalk, you get the jam 1 pst. Rejection too! It's clear that when you get that kind of offer, there's a lot of people who use it that can't afford it. The credit institutions continue to do so because the interest they charge on non-payable debt is sky-high. Very many people are waiting to pay, and it pays off for these institutions. They obviously don't do this if it hadn't paid off for them. So putting a ceiling on the borrowing rates associated with unsecured debt is very important. Then less will lend out money because there is not so much money to earn from it. It'll be more serious for the lenders and the creditors, and the creditors will have to take a greater risk with that kind of loan, plus the debtor will not get that high interest rate and have a greater chance of paying his debt. Another suggestion I can make at the same time is that one can also assess whether unsecured debt must be recovered by eigeninkasso. Now there are a lot of people who lend, cancel the collection or sell debt to debt collection agencies, who in turn charge fees and high interest rates, and the debt increases crazy. To say that unsecured debt is only to be recovered by eigeninkasso, I am absolutely sure will slow this negative development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e365	I thank the President-in-Office and the Chairman of the Committee for raising some of my points regarding what is happening in front of a debt regime. When people have a debt arrangement, nothing happens overnight. It's a result of many years of development. It's been a lot of years. A lot of people are aware of it. There are a lot of people who don't do anything. There are many people who do not take responsibility and assist. It is quite obvious that there is no public task to assist these people. It is a task for fellow humans, for neighbors, for friends and for the voluntary sector. It's strange that it's not going to be possible to get a system where these vulnerable people get help from ordinary people who know the difference between right and wrong. And if the committee could do anything about it, I'd be happy. Another point is that creditors who give up this debt have to take greater risks. They understand nothing but that they have to lose more money than what they are doing today. They have to lose a lot, a lot more money. They take such high salaries and interest rates, and that's the best proof that these are risk loans. In that case, the State and the public sewer cushions under its arms shall not have such a behaviour. No, one should say straight away that when you have done this, you have to expect to lose much more money than you do. So to the "debt settlers," there is a very common demand from the police to professionalise this. Obviously, you will be required to have a bachelor's degree or a master's degree to deal with these matters. All professional groups do the same. But now we need to be able to have a discussion about what competence is. It's great that there are many county councils that have few cases, but I'm going to cave for – to say the practical – that the county councils with a few cases have very powerful borrowers; maybe they've done their job before it became a debt settlement case. Maybe they're doing the job of clearing the papers. When I say it so strongly, it's because I've had such a job and see how the system works. I have no faith in this so-called formal competence in these matters. It will lead to so much bureaucracy, and I am surprised that the current government is continuing on the same track.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e378	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e392	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers from each group and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e401	Let me first of all thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. There is generally broad agreement on the amendments to the adoption law, and it is very enjoyable to register. The main consideration behind any adoption must be to safeguard the child’s right to a safe growth. The crucial factor in the authorisation of adoptive parents must be their prerequisites and the ability to provide the child with exactly that. Several candidate countries already have their own requirements for, inter alia: form of life and age of adoptive applicants. In the interests of children, it is important that Norwegian guidelines do not put an end to adoption. The decision of the management should be based on an overall assessment of the applicant for adoption. The guidelines in the adoption law should therefore be indicative and not absolute requirements. A maximum age of 42 years has been proposed, while today's maximum age is 45 years. Applicant countries, such as India and China, have upper age limits of 55 and 50 years, respectively. In my view, we should be careful to introduce a maximum age limit lower than the requirements of the candidate countries, as this could put an end to adoption that could otherwise have been implemented. In my view, it is better to introduce a maximum age difference between children and adoption applicants than to introduce a maximum age limit. This is done, inter alia: magazines in Denmark. Similar models are also used in several candidate countries. At the same time, I believe that the proposal for a list of exhaustive derogations from a general rule of 42 years becomes too strict. In my view, the decisive factor for the decision must be whether the adoption applicant is able to deal with care tasks for a sufficiently long time in the future. I support the proposal that the investigation of adoption parents be transferred to Bufetat. This will provide quality in the treatment process and geographical non-discrimination. At the same time, I would like to highlight the importance of this giving a quality boost and not leading to longer waiting time. When transferring this responsibility, I want to pay attention to the importance that the transfer of funds from the municipalities to Buffetat does not go at the expense of municipal child protection. I support in principle the proposal that adoption preparatory courses should be compulsory. In practice, most adoptive applicants participate in such courses today, and it is important that adoption applicants are well prepared to receive an adopted child. I also largely agree with the exceptions to the requirement set by the Ministry of Change in the Proposition, and also believe that the need for participation in the course of the investigation can be assessed. It is important that participation requirements do not become a bureaucratic bottleneck. The InorAdopt Hearing Body has stated that applicants should be able to start the investigation process before the entire course has been completed, but that the course certificate must be available prior to the application for prior consent. I support this proposal, as this will be a short cut in the application time. At the same time, it should be assessed whether the adoption organisations or other quality assurance operators can offer such courses in order to reduce the waiting time at Bufdir. It is important to assist non-governmental organisations working to put in place the necessary laws and systems to establish agreements with several countries. This should also consider whether foreign stations can play a more active role. We have to work to facilitate that as many children as possible have the opportunity to grow up in good, safe families.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e427	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job. In this case, there is little disagreement about the changes presented in the proposition. It is mainly a clarification of the adoption law and of what may be required in regulations for adoption applicants in the case of international adoption. Among other things, it is about age, health and the length of marriage or cohabitation. It also deals with the kind of requirements that you should be able to impose on lone applicants. The Labour Party believes it is good that the child’s best focus is also on this law, and of course supports it. We are also very pleased that, after this change, cohabitants living in stable conditions will be assessed in the same way as married couples – including in the case of step-child adoption. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that this applies to both heterophilic and gay couples. This is important, although we know that many countries do not accept people with consensual status as applicants. The waiting time for many is long, and if moving the investigation from the municipalities to Bufatat reduces this waiting time, it must be positive. It is important to reduce unnecessary use of time. Buffetat is competent and already has similar tasks. It will also increase the possibility of non-discrimination in terms of investigation and procedural time, which is also important. There is a reduction in the number of applications for adoption of children from abroad, and fewer children are also released for adoption. It is important that non-governmental organisations, working to put in place the necessary laws and systems to implement agreements with several countries, can be assisted, for example from foreign stations. The question is whether they can play a more active role and get more adoptions. According to Section 3 of the Adoption Act, the lower age limit for adoption is 25 years, while the law does not contain an upper age limit. According to the guidelines, no prior consent should normally be given to applicants over 45 years of age. According to practice, the applicant is considered to be 45 years of age up to the age of 46 years, and it is the age at which the application for pre-consent is processed that is taken into account. The Labour Party believes that it is also important to consider the age of the child and the age difference between children and adoptive parents, and this should be taken into account. The working party also believes that it should be the age of prior consent that applies, not when a child may be born. What must be crucial is whether it is possible to take good care of the child in the future as well. The Labour Party also believes it is important that a person should be able to apply and have prior consent for adoption at the same time as an investigation and treatment for childlessness, as is the case for several applicants. All applicants must take compulsory courses. This shall be done before the adoption process is initiated. The working party considers that, in order to shorten the duration of the application, it is appropriate to consider whether the adoption process can be initiated before the course is completed. This was also seen during the hearing. At the same time, it should be assessed whether the adoption organisations or other quality assurance operators can offer such courses in order to reduce waiting times. Many are in an adoption process several times. It is important to consider whether a more simplified process can be introduced at the time of second adoption, in order to provide a more flexible system for those who have already been in the system. It is the safety of children and the best of children that must always be the basis of any decision. Therefore, adoption applicants must have the characteristics necessary to create a good home. An overall assessment is important and must be based on suitability. Therefore, there should not be absolute requirements, but guidance, as has now been proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e448	Not long ago I saw a documentary in our small country about a family who adopted a whole family of siblings from Brazil. The whole story was mostly reminiscent of the novel where Marte Svennerud is the main character and adopts seven children instead of one where it says: «Marte Svennerud went into the office and sat down next to the priest. You take all seven. Ite no crush, she said authoritatively and clawed her big hand into the table." So without ‘no crushing’ we have dealt with the changes in the adoption law, and we have allowed ourselves to send some signals to the work done when a complete processing of the same law is now also being carried out. In Norway, 40 psts were made. fewer international adoptions in 2013 than in the previous year. If that had been a number that represented that there were fewer children who needed safe homes, the decline would have been okay, but nothing suggests it. That's why it's paradoxical that we have families that are now close to giving up because they've waited too long, families that could give of their love, instead of being in line. Children need parents, and that's why we want to put our children's best interests ahead of bureaucracy. For this reason, it is proposed that: consider not making the adoption preparatory courses mandatory, but instead comply with the requirements of the applicant country – that we rather follow the requirements of the candidate countries rather than make the courses mandatory that the adoption process can be started before the course is completed, in order to shorten the application period that the adoption organisations or other quality assured operators can offer such courses in order to reduce the waiting time; Because we know that there is a waiting time for such a course today. Then we want to review the requirements to renew applications or to apply again. A completely new application procedure may not be necessary if everything is the same in the family, especially if all the family has been involved, is to stand in line. The legislative proposals propose shifting responsibility for investigating adoption parents to Bufatat. It is important that this organisational change is made in order to increase the quality and reduce the waiting time for applicants. Strict requirements are imposed on those who are to adopt and it is reported that there are particularly strict requirements for the adoption of uniforms. It is important that not a good home for children stay away in all the constraints. The most important thing is that the child and the family have a good network around them. The age limit should be indicative and not as today, where an absolute limit of 45 years has been set. For example, you are. Forty-five years of age and having a child of three years of age, you're doing pretty much the same thing as for example. I am 44 years old and have a child aged two and a half. And I think I'm doing it pretty good. We must remember that it must be essential for the decision that applicants can deal with the care tasks for a long time in the future. So it is that a number of candidate countries have their own guidelines for this, and we also need to look at them, I think. Because it is important that no Norwegian guidelines prevent more children who need good homes from getting it. We know that children who need families live in more countries than we are now working with, but there are, of course, strict requirements for Norway to cooperate on adoption. I am pleased that an overall committee highlights this as an important international work. Further international work is needed to get more candidate countries approved. There's a lot of reasons why adoption numbers go down. We cannot change the laws of other countries. We have to do our job, and then some of the important things are that we do not create bottlenecks in our internal handling of matters. We look forward to the whole adoption law being treated, and are pleased to have made some changes already. I started with a story about a small family of two that turned into six pieces. We have many coming parents with great heart space in this country, we need to do what we can to fill these heart rooms with children, not with waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e493	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good explanation of the matter. The Christian People's Party is also pleased with some of the changes made to the adoption law. We support several of the proposals, and it's clear that the changes we're making, we're doing, of course, because we have children's best in mind. There are several suggestions here. As far as age limits are concerned, the Committee has expressed the view that it needs to be handled. Too rigid a system here is not desirable, and we hope that the department can look at it in a more flexible way to deal with the age limit. An age limit of 45 years has been proposed. Obviously, not all children who are adopted are from zero to three years old. Sometimes older children are also adopted. There must be the age difference between adoptive parents and adoptive children that must be the essential thing here. I hope that the Department will take the signals that a unanimous committee is behind, namely that we need to have a flexible age-limiting system. The Committee is also concerned that we need to have guidelines in Norway that do not break too much handbags with the legislation of the candidate countries. At least it is important that we do not introduce legislation in Norway that prevents more children who need good homes from getting it. In one area, the Christian People's Party has chosen to have a slightly different attitude than the rest of the Committee, and it's about to open up so that in general, cohabitants can adopt. It is important for the Christian People's Party that children to be adopted have a stable and secure frame around them. I just want to refer to Bufdir's hearing response, where it appears that there is a general statistical tendency that cohabitation is more unstable than marriage. I also refer to the Bufdir growth report for 2013, where it is found that cohabitants with children have three times as likely to move away from each other as couples with children. That's the way children who are adopted are vulnerable. Society should facilitate their safe and healthy growth with continuity and stability in care. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that there should still be a requirement for marriage or registered partnership in order to adopt. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal to amend Section 5. However, we believe that the proposals for a change to Section 5(b), where it opens for a step-child adoption after a break in life or death, are best for children in cases where the only legal parent dies, or in the event of a breach between the only legal parent of the child and an adult who has acted as a parent of the child. Stable adoption after death or a break in life will lead to stability and continuity in the child's everyday life, and we are concerned about that. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will of course support the changes made to the proposed new Section 5(b). Then there is also a proposal to transfer the investigation of adoption parents from the municipalities to Bufetat. We support that, too. But the assumption here must be that this does not lead to more bureaucracy and that we do not create new bottlenecks. We know today that adopting a child takes a very long time. I also hope that the Ministry is concerned that the changes made here lead to shorter and more effective treatment than the opposite. Otherwise, we also support this because we believe that it will contribute to making a similar practice across the country. But as I said, more bureaucracy is not what we're after.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e510	The centre party is not represented in the committee and is therefore not part of the vote, but we would like to welcome the improvement in the adoption legislation that today's case involves, and the centre party joins the majority recommendation in the vote. The right of children to a safe upbringing is fundamental and the safety of children must be ensured also in the development of adoption legislation. In many respects it will be a matter of having the characteristics of adoption applicants to provide a good home for their children. These decisions must be based on an overall assessment and guidelines and requirements should be indicative and not absolute, in order to create the necessary flexibility. It is a concern that fewer and fewer children are adopted, for the need is hardly less. Agreements with new countries are being delayed and it is important to assist non-governmental organisations working to establish the necessary laws. It can also be assessed whether foreign stations can play a more active role in this way. The centre party has been skeptical about shifting responsibility for investigating the adoption applicants from the municipalities to the five regions of Bufetat. As a party, we have thought that the kind of tasks should be transferred to the municipal sector – and then closer to the users. However, Bufetate must obtain a large part of its information from the municipalities, and we are not sure how efficient it will be. Another issue is that there may be a challenge by the same body investigating and approving adoption applicants. Since the hearing bodies are in favour of the move, we in the Central Party will nevertheless support it on a case-by-case basis. Several of the adoption organisations have also required a statutory period for the conduct of the investigation. The centre party believes that there is something that needs to be considered in further work on these issues. The centre party supports the change that the requirements for the adoption applicant can be further regulated in its own regulation. The question of an upper age limit is a proposal that can be well argued for and against, but on the basis of the consultation round, we support the proposal that an upper age limit in case should be laid down in regulation rather than in law. This will be sent to a new consultation, which will have to form the basis for final legislation. However, I think that, as the representative Mr Becquerad also pointed out, there must be some flexibility, among other things. in the case of the difference between the age of the child being adopted and the age of the adoptive parents, which is a factor for flexibility. Furthermore, the Central Party considers that it is positive that the Ministry is in favour of the treatment for childlessness not automatically leading to a refusal of prior consent, but that this must be assessed in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis. Once again, it is important to stress that it is a policy objective to have more adoptions where it is possible for the best interests of the child and that parents consider more alternatives, not necessarily should lead to exclusion from adoption. With regard to the amendments dealing with an opening for the adoption of cohabitants, the Central Party supports the government’s proposal. More and more people live together, and in cases where adults who live in such a relationship want to adopt and where the best interests of the child are taken care of, this should also be possible. The goal must always be to preserve the best interests of the child, combined with the political desire for more safe adults to adopt children. We support the provision of general requirements for the duration of cohabitation and the fact that other assessments – such as the common economy, common housing, common children – are also factors that count in an assessment. Another point in this way is the importance of the offer of an adoption preparatory course. It is an offer that the Centre Party supports and that we believe should be mandatory. In order to ensure that this happens, we insist that there is an offer that should be made without the need to pay any excess in relation to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e531	Nor is SV represented in the Committee, but it is worth supporting this proposal that former Minister for Children and Family Inga Marte Thorkildsen presented and worked on. There are important changes that are being made now, and as we thought it was necessary to do before taking the complete, large review that has been announced in the case. The issue is about several legislative changes, but above all it is about making the process simpler, and there should be greater non-discrimination and fewer bodies to deal with for applicants. We in SV are very concerned about that. The point about which there has been some discussion here is the point of whether or not consensual residents should be assessed on the same basis as married couples. I must remind you that it is the requirements of care that are to be assessed in these cases, and not the form of life. It is also the case now that lonely – or as the seas choose to call themselves: exceptional – adoptives are allowed to adopt. Married couples have, of course, and those who have registered partnerships, but also cohabitants, should have the opportunity to do so. There are changes in life forms in society, and it's possible that someone doesn't like it, but that's the way it is. And it's probably not that marriage is always a guarantee that things are going to hold, so it's important to focus on the requirements of the adoptives that are going to be high. They shall be there regardless of the form of life in which they live, and that is what should safeguard the child. So you have to make a proper assessment of it. That it is now being moved to Bufetat, we support, but we also support those who warn that we must now ensure a system that does not make it more bureaucratic. Then I see in the comments to the Committee that the government is asked to consider in more detail whether to require the conclusion of a cohabitation agreement in order to ensure the adoption of the law. I believe that a much more correct way is to change the law in general, so that children in cohabitation have equal rights in general, either adopted, or a biological child. I believe that these changes need to be made instead of making some regulations that someone should have a private agreement that will somehow secure the children. It has to be the same for the children, regardless of who their parents are. Then the change that is proposed that you can start the adoption process while trying assisted conception is important. There are many childless people who have mentioned the problem that you have not been able to stand in the two queues at the same time. This has led to stress and anxiety, because the process is time-consuming, and because childless fears that they may lose their ability to adopt if they fail to succeed in assisted conception. Then it is important to now establish that it is possible to stand in both queues at the same time – and some are so lucky that they even succeed in both parts at the same time; they experience double happiness. Finally, the discussion on age limits. I'm glad it hasn't been set. There are good arguments both for and against, but I would like to remind you that the age of people who have children today is much higher than it was when I had my children – when I was 20. It's a development that also, I think, must be reflected when we discuss how old parents are in relation to their children. There is a situation that is different today than before. It also has to do with a general state of health in the population, I think; many are sprawling older, but it's clear that you have to assess it. It is not fair for ladies my age, for example, to be judged to adopt. The relationship between the age of the adopted children and the age of the parents has to be assessed. I think I'm going to end it, because it's enough that there are many more of the slightly larger children who need adoptive parents -- maybe the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e548	I am also pleased that the Stortinget deals with this proposition with proposals for amendments to the adoption law. Getting a better adoption process is for the best both for the child and, in particular, for those applying for adoption. There's a lot of good comments from the committee that make us now have a proposition that gets even better than what it was. You are all aware that a legislative committee has been set up to propose a new adoption law and the committee will present its position this autumn. The issue we are now dealing with is a limited part of the follow-up to NOU 2009: 21, Adoption – for the best of the child. Although the legislative committee is working on its work, some proposals have been prioritised and raised in the proposal we are dealing with today. It is in order to ensure more appropriate and effective treatment of adoption issues. As many people have experienced, there have been major changes in the field of adoption in recent years. The number of adoptions has decreased, and there is a growing tendency for adoptive children to be older and need special support. Several countries of origin also impose higher requirements for the investigation and preparation of adoptive applicants. At the heart of this proposition is the proposal to relocate the task of investigating adoptive applicants from the municipalities of the regions in the children's, welfare and family situation. I notice more concerns here that this does not have to be a system that makes it more bureaucratic. I can promise that we will do everything we can to make it not more bureaucratic, but that it will actually be easier, and that we will get a more predictable and better treatment. We know that several municipalities have had a long wait, and that the quality of the investigations has not been good enough. The importance of this proposal is that adoption applicants should have fewer bodies to deal with and that the process should become more predictable. Criticism has been raised as to whether today’s guidelines are binding or indicative. Regulatory regulation means that there is greater transparency and predictability in the handling of adoption requests. I have also noticed that the Committee states that decisions in international adoption cases should be based on an overall assessment of the applicants and that the criteria for recognition should be indicative. I have also noticed that an overall committee does not want it to be a binding upper age limit for those who are to adopt. Today, the law doesn't have an upper age limit, and we all know here that age isn't always what matters. The Committee also considers that emphasis should be placed on the age difference between children and adoption applicants above an absolute upper age limit. There are comments that I want to take with me in the further work. It is also a comment from the Committee on the preparation for adoption. There are several people here who have wondered whether this should be mandatory and whether the adoption process should be started before the course is completed. I would also like to take with me the Committee's opinions on unanimous adoption applicants and the importance of an adoption candidate having a stable and good network around them. Like the committee, I believe that unaccompanied adoption applicants can provide children with both good and stable growth conditions. One of the changes in the proposition is to open up the possibility for cohabiters to adopt. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports this proposal. As the representative Karin Andersen also pointed out, it is the requirements of care that must be important here, and not the way in which you live. For me, it is important that we treat those who appear to be potential parents on an equal footing, regardless of the form of life they have chosen, but it is important, as the Committee also points out, that the relationship between cohabitation must be stable and have a certain duration. There are opinions from the committee that we take with us. I also see that the Committee agrees that the treatment of childlessness should not preclude prior consent to adoption. I fully agree with that, and we're going to take it further. There is a proposal for a limited access to step-children’s adoption of former spouses and registered partners’ children after divorce and after death. The proposal only applies where a parent is established for the child and that parent dies or divorces. The proposal shall ensure that children can have a lasting and stable relationship with the stepparent without losing the relationship with the original parent. There are a lot of good comments from the committee that I want to take with me when we're going to draw up the regulations of this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e578	Seven years ago, I was in a public office in China and got a little girl put in my arms. She was alone in the world and could have grown up in institution, but instead, through international cooperation, the little girl had the opportunity to become the center of all children deserves to be – as a long-awaited and beloved daughter. She became my family and my happiness. Behind every adoption there is a sorrow, but in that grief there is also a hope that a child will have a new opportunity to grow up as part of a family. Let's organise that as many children as possible can get the best possible growth. In Norway, adoptions are subject to tough demands. We are already among the strictest in the class – too strict, I would argue. If Norway continues to tighten up its requirements, will it improve the quality of parents for children? Nope. Adoption takes place in an international setting. If Norway increases the age requirements of its applicants, this does not lead to younger children getting younger parents. This instead leads to fewer Norwegian parents being approved and not having parents or parents in other countries who choose to comply with the requirements of the countries from which the children come. In fact, this can have dramatic consequences for adoption to Norway, for in recent years adoption figures have dropped to this country. In 2010, 243 children were adopted to Norway. Last year, the number had dropped to 144. The adoption associations have already had to set the fees at NOK 175 000 per child in addition to the costs associated with the pick-up trip. With a further decline in adoption figures, we can simply reach a critical limit. A large proportion of children who need new homes are over five years old or have health challenges. These are the weakest of the weakest, and many of them remain in the institutions – without a future. In Norway, we have made it extra complicated to adopt these children. I would argue that it is far better for a twelve-year-old to be adopted by a resourceful and motivated couple of almost 50 years than to spend the entire childhood at the institution and since as a young teenager had to manage herself. It is also better for a child to have one parent than not to have any parents, so let it be a real opportunity for us to still be able to adopt lonely. Adoption must and must always take place within a sound and tidy regulatory framework, but we must not make such rigid rules that we forget to see the people involved. Different children need different families. We therefore need to follow developments further closely and in particular consider how we can facilitate the process of adopting Special Focus children and older children more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e591	I would like to thank you for a good debate and make a few brief comments. I notice that there is a solid consensus, as is also in the committee, on the issue of age difference – that the most important thing must be the difference between those who adopt, and the child. It's not that there are only babies or two and three-year-olds who are being adopted, it can also be a ten-year-old child, and then the question of age asks themselves a little different. The representative Confession from the Christian People's Party was within this with marriage and what is a stable and good home. I'll take that for information. The representative of the Centerpartiet Arnstad was also concerned with the question of age and that the goal must be for more people to adopt – precisely because children are going to have safe homes. The representative Karin Andersen was concerned about this with a cohabitation agreement and to some extent disagreed that it should be a claim as far as I could understand. At least we believe that it should be looked at and thought about in the future. It has something to do with the rights, and there are more and more people in this country living together, where children can actually stand without rights that you have with a marriage. Our responsibility must at least be to care for the best interests of children. I am, of course, pleased that the Council of State will follow up several of the Committee's comments and what has been said here today. That's a good sign. Then we get to hope that these changes in the law will help more children to grow up in safe and good homes. Once again, thank you for a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e607	Just one detail in the case. I understand that everyone who has been up has been concerned about this with the upper age limit and that instead of a rigid age limit system, flexibility should be given and rather focus on the age gap between adoptive parents and the one to be adopted. Here there is a potential for quite a number of conflicts. When the Storting agrees that we're going to have such a system, with flexibility, to avoid people being hit by a rigid system, it's important that the Stortinge get feedback from the government council on how to follow it up. Therefore, I would like to invite the Council of State to confirm that this will be followed up and tell them how she will give feedback to the Stortinget on how this will be followed up. Because we've all experienced things where the Storting may have had an intention of flexibility, but when people meet the system, they haven't been treated in the way that the Storting initially had the intention. Therefore, it is important that we receive feedback from the Council of State on how exactly this should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e612	It was the rapporteur's interpretation of what I had said about cohabitation agreements, which made me take the floor. I think he misunderstood what I said. I said that I believe it should be ensured in the form of law that children have equal rights regardless of the form of their parents' life, and that no one is required to have a cohabitation agreement to secure any children – it is too bad for these children. It is not that we want a worse system and do not want to secure the children, but we want to secure them in the form of law, so that all children have the same rights regardless of their parents' choice of form of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e617	It was the representative of Arild Grande who made me speak here in terms of age. I believe that the Stortinget has been very clear and clear about what kind of desire it has on the further handling of this matter, that we should not have an upper age limit, and that there should be flexibility. I can promise the representative that those signals have been given to me, and I will take them with me. Then we have to see if we can find a suitable way to inform the Storting and the Committee about how they are being taken care of. But it's important that we get flexibility and that we don't put an upper roof here. Several have also noted that developments in recent years have seen fewer and fewer children being released for adoption and that there has also been a decline in international adoption. Like the Committee, I believe it is important that we assist the voluntary organisations that are working to put in place the necessary laws and systems in other countries, so that Norway can have more co-operation countries. It is a continuous work, and the work of getting new co-operation countries is important. Although it is the individual adoption organisation that is to take the initiative to engage in cooperation on adoption with different countries, it is important that we as authorities are and support, and we can then give organisations the opportunity to develop new co-operation countries. In 2013, the Ministry earmarked funds for operating aid for that purpose, and Bufdir deals with an application this year where we also need to look into whether there are other measures needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e624	I have no need to withdraw the debate – it has been a good debate. I think it's very neat what the representative of Grande mentions, that we're sure that we have a common understanding of what we're talking about. So I just want to record something for what's going to be part of the evaluation. Now we're just talking about the age limit and the age difference between adoptive parents and adoptive children, but also sibling relationships will be very important in these contexts. If there are other siblings in the same age group for which these parents are responsible, it will also very often be of great value in terms of adopting other children. I just wanted to record that it also becomes part of the assessment, and that we get good arrangements on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e631	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e645	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e652	Prop. 204 L for 2012–2013 was a cause of joy, namely that several of those who are going to be here in the country for many years, and very many of those we are talking about today who are going to be in Norway and stay here, would have the right and duty to participate in Norwegian training and the right and obligation to introduce a programme under the Introduction Act. It's important, because if you're going to get along in this community, it's important that you get training quickly. Therefore, the previous government wanted to expand the personality. The sitting government did not withdraw the proposition, but left it on the contrary, and after an exchange of letters with the committee it has been confirmed that it is behind the proposition. The surprise for me as the case rapporteur was therefore great, as it appeared during the examination of the case that the majority of the committee, all except the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, chose to send the proposal back to the government – so we are now missing out on the possibility of giving more people a better start to their stay in Norway. I'm surprised. In its comments, the majority of the Committee states that they point to negotiations between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party on immigration policy, and that this apparently should be part of that discussion. In the time that has passed since we gave this position until we debate the matter today, the outcome of the negotiations between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party have been published, and in my view there is no trace of this matter in that agreement, or an improvement in the personality of the introduction system or of the right and duty to Norwegian training in that agreement. Then there is reason to ask whether the Left and Christian People's Party has given up a good integration case for a reason that at least in this setting it is not possible to find out, and I hope we get an explanation during the day. Who is this about? There are persons who are granted an authorisation under Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act which is limited by Section 38, fifth paragraph of the Foreign Affairs Act pending a documented identity. They should be included in the circle of persons who have these rights and duties. And who is this? Persons receiving this residence permit are pervasive persons who are characterised as vulnerable, e.g. families with children, seriously ill, lonely women and single minors. Many of these people have long stays in receptions, and there are people who need basic qualification to strengthen their ability to function in society. Fafo made a report in 2012 called Legal without reservation. It shows that this circle right over here is 80 pst. families with children, 42 pst. of those with this type of residence permit, children — now entitled to a residence permit. They got that in 2013. Everyone wants these adults to get to work — they are entitled to work permits — but they have problems getting into work because they cannot Norwegian, and because they have not received training after the introduction programme. That's why the previous government – and I also understand Council Horne, obviously – meant that this was a good idea, but Councillor Horne is now being voted down by his own in Stortinget. That's the first thing this is happening in, and I hope that during the debate we get a clear explanation of why this has happened. In fact, the cooperation agreement on immigration policy that I have been through carefully, says that one point is that you are concerned about immigrant women coming to work, and that they need to be trained in Norwegian and be able to Norwegian better. Yes, it is precisely these families the previous government, and also the councillor Horne, thought that this offer would be received earlier, but as the majority now prevents them from getting. I'm sorry. I present the proposal made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e672	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e675	There is today a legislative proposal that the Labour Party believes combines two important considerations. One is the extension of the right and obligation of persons to participate in the respective introduction programme and training in Norwegian and social knowledge. Among other things, it is important to emphasise that the persons referred to here are generally considered vulnerable, for example: families with children, seriously ill, lonely women, single minors and many with long stays in reception. Secondly, it is a proposal that will allow more newly arrived immigrants who are not granted a permanent residence permit to start integration more quickly in Norway. It is important to stress that one of the purposes of the use of limited residence permits is to motivate asylum seekers to give their identity, and to ensure that as a country, we know who our citizens are. Good integration is not least about the ability to learn languages quickly, to learn social skills and to live in a municipality. Lack of participation in the introduction programme and training may lead to a more difficult starting point for entering into working and social life and, in particular, to becoming an economic self-reliance. The proposition we are dealing with here today would contribute to further strengthening the inclusion work. I have recorded that the government has so far implemented several measures that obviously weaken the integration work in Norway. It is about the increase in cash support, a targeted measure to keep immigrant women at home to a greater extent. It is a matter of increasing the costs of municipalities by receiving lone minor refugees, and recently the Contact Committee between the immigrant population and the authorities has also been closed. That is why it is particularly disappointing today to see that the bulk of the population rejects a proposal – a good proposal – promoted by the Stoltenberg II government, which the Right Party government has actually supported. Reference is made to a negotiated agreement between the lots, and one here will allow for changes in the proposition work. The Committee has therefore expressly asked the government whether they support the proposal, and the government does so in letters attached to the matter. For the Labour Party, the parliamentary situation is quite clear. It is therefore particularly important to note that a parliamentary majority chooses to reject its own government policy. To all intents and purposes, there is a very weak reason in the comment for the marking that is taking place today. The question is whether it is created to raise doubts about integration policy or whether it is to express a lack of confidence in the work of the specialist councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e690	The proposal currently under consideration in Stortinget addresses the issue of extending the target audience with the right and obligation to participate in training in Norwegian and social knowledge and the introduction programme under the Introduction Act. The persons concerned are described: there are persons who do not have a final identity and who may receive the residence permit for one year at a time. The proposition promoted by the Stoltenberg II government indicates that these are persons who assume that it is possible to clarify the identity and who are likely to be granted residence. Through a separate cooperation agreement, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right have laid the basis for a comprehensive – and I would say a broad – policy on immigration and asylum. The agreement states that immigration is a source of diversity, new impulses and cultural exchange. Variation and diversity are positive. And Norway is going to stand by our international obligations to help people refugees, of course, in such a way that the institution of asylum is not abused, but helps to protect people who are really threatened. As is known, that part of the cooperation agreement between the four parties dealing specifically with the foreign field has been the subject of further negotiations. This resulted in a new agreement, which was announced on 28 February this year. Through the new agreement, we ensure a humane immigration policy that can be roughly summed up in some ways, tightening up rules and other areas, while respecting all our international obligations and human rights. The situation of asylum-seekers shall be better taken care of than has been done so far, while making changes in the reception structure, providing for more efficient processing, speeding up the return of criminals and persons without legal residence, and changing the maintenance requirement for family establishment and family reunification. It is in the light of the process of following up and putting into practice the agreement in both this and other areas that the four cooperation parties have come to the conclusion that the present case may contain issues on which it is important to look even more closely before deciding whether to extend the target population for integration efforts, as suggested by the proposal. That is why we are asking that these issues be fully assessed by the government, and that the government come back with the matter appropriately. Because we do not currently agree with the proposals in the proposal, we choose to send the matter back to the government. Let me underline: when we choose not to take a decision on the matter today, it just means that we have not taken a decision on the matter today, neither more nor less. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is a unanimous committee that determines that it is essential for good integration that people who have received a residence permit in Norway are given the opportunity to learn the language quickly, to receive training in social knowledge and to live in a municipality. There is also a policy of course the Right still stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e705	It is strange to hear what kind of conclusions the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party can draw from sending back a case that was issued by the previous government. When it comes to strengthening integration and inclusion work in Norway, today’s government, together with the Left and Christian People’s Party, has made considerable efforts. We've reworked the entire reception structure, which means that those who are waiting to be settled in a municipality should not go around without any offer, as it was under eight years of red-green rule. The inclusion and integration work should be started from day one. We have arranged for a number of things that actually ensure better integration in Norway. The conclusion you draw is that the Progress Party or the other parties that want to send this case back are opposed to the concrete proposals or intentions in it. There is no basis for those claims. We have not said that we are for or against some part of this matter, we have said that we are not debating it now. We believe that it is natural for the government to look at the issues raised in this case, to include the agreement on which it is based, and the whole there, also in the further work. We believe that this is absolutely necessary, otherwise the approach you have will be divided and divided. So it's quite strange to witness that parties that have had the power of a majority government for eight years, and that for eight years have been familiar with this issue, only when they lost all confidence in the population, lost power and had to leave the government offices, did you realize that something has to be done here too, and made a case. And today it's irresponsible. For eight years with a red-green government, it was the responsibility not to address the issues raised by this case. When they first left, they became eager. And that's how we see it in case after case. Not only in our field, but on everything from transportation to justice etc. are the red-green very impatient now that they've come out of government offices, and now that they don't have the power anymore. But let me be quite clear, for the representative Helga Pedersen asked some rhetorical questions. No, this is in no way a mistrust of our own trade union council or of the government. If we had not trusted the Council of State, we would not have sent the matter back. That's just the whole review we want, and the broad focus on the subject. That is why we have said that we are sending it back. And here it might also be thought that other departments have to get into the picture, because the problem that is being dealt with here is complicated and difficult. There are people who have stayed year after year and were kept in limbo, without the red-green government doing any of the world's things. So we send the matter back, and we expect the government to come back at the appropriate time. Then we're going to give our comments, our agreement, and our comments on what we think is necessary to solve the challenges in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e718	The matter we are dealing with today was promoted by the previous government. The left seems to make sense, and we want as many people as possible to be able to work in Norway. We are also positive that persons are given the right and obligation to Norwegian training pending documented identity. We also see some reluctance and understand that it has been a desire to limit the residence permit to motivate asylum seekers to prove their identity. But the summary is left-hand in favour of the proposal. When we still, under doubt, vote to send the matter back to the government, it is because we trust that the government wants to look at this in a larger context. However, the left supports the procedure in this case. As you know, the government has not withdrawn the proposition, which would have been natural. It is therefore difficult to know whether the government is behind the proposal or not. The left has chosen to interpret the government in the best possible sense. We therefore hope that the government will return as soon as possible with a proposal to extend the personality of the introduction system. The left is welcome to join this work. We are looking forward to such an initiative in the near future. On the other hand, it seems like a strange procedure if the proposal is stopped – a proposal that initially seems very sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e729	One thing often has several sides. Also this case, on which target groups should have the right and duty to participate in the introduction programme and the right and duty of training in Norwegian and social subjects. The funny thing about this matter is that the government's proposal for a limited extension of the circle of newly arrived immigrants accessing the introduction programme is being reviewed by the government's own representatives in the Stortinget. The government parties and the supporting parties in Stortinget oppose the adoption of the government's proposal, while the opposition parties believe that we are faced with a well-founded proposal and support the government's proposals. Prop. 204 L was presented by the red-green government as a result of the government’s draft government budget for 2014. The budget includes a budget of 4 million. to extend the scheme of grants for training in Norwegian and social sciences for persons with restrictions on the residence permit here in the country pending documented identity. The law we are examining now provides for the necessary changes to the law of introduction which allow the group concerned to be included in the ordinary introduction programme. The size of the budget has been decided on, but the majority want to stop implementation. It is contrary to the government's view, which has thought that this is a scheme for which they will go, both the legal adjustment and the budgetary effects of it. It is difficult to understand the reasons put forward by the majority parties when they choose to reject the proposal put forward in this case. We are aware that the government's support parties have carried out a major discussion on how asylum and immigration policy should be designed. We are also aware that these are discussions that will unite parties who want to pursue a socially oriented immigration policy with parties who want to pursue the policy in a much more restrictive direction. That not even the matter we are dealing with here today can unite the parties in question, is difficult to understand. Nor can I say that the attempts at explanation given by the members of the government parties in the debate here today have contributed to a greater understanding. The most important content of this case concerns the question of how we organise the everyday lives of families living in Norway, who are likely to have approved stays here, but who have restrictions on the residence permit pending documented identity. As the setting shows, we show that there are mainly families with children in this situation. Integration in the Norwegian community is largely about mastering Norwegian languages and building up basic knowledge of our society. Participation in the introduction programme is the way to acquire these basic knowledge, the input ticket to good integration and the entry ticket to get into work. We have now implemented changes to allow persons with limited residence permits to be resident in a municipality. I think most people understand that the prerequisite for successful integration is to be able to qualify through language training and understanding. So there's this possibility that the majority now wants to put an end to it. It is perceived as both unnecessary, unfortunate and totally unintelligible, as I have seen that there is a cross-political consensus that understanding of languages and understanding of society are a prerequisite for integration, and that the most important thing is to get to work as quickly as possible. I still do not have an answer or a reason why the representatives of the government parties in the hall choose to oppose the fact that people who are actually to be settled are not entitled to Norwegian training. They actually go against their own government in terms of this very good proposal. Why should these persons be deprived of the possibility of integration into Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e746	The case we are dealing with today concerns a proposal that persons with restrictions on the residence permit, pending a documented identity, are entitled to the introduction programme and Norwegian training. In its Opinion, the Committee proposes to send back to the government the proposal to amend the law of introduction. First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that there is an overall committee that supports the fact that qualification and Norwegian training are essential for good integration in Norway. The introduction programme and Norwegian training are the support pillar for the good integration of refugees and immigrants. Good qualification increases job opportunities and self-sufficiency. I want to stress that the integration work is a work that the government puts very high, and that I as the Council of State have a good pressure on. The majority of the Committee states in its opinion that ‘there are many issues raised in the proposition that are important to look at’. The majority of the Committee asks the Government to make an ‘overall assessment’ of the matter. The Committee further states that ‘the government must come back to the matter appropriately’. I want to include the recordings in the comments from the committee and not least the recordings from the debate. These I'm going to take back to the government. It is true that more people have thought that this is a work that concerns not only my department but also several departments. The government will review the matter and consider what has been highlighted in the vote and in the debate. After the government has assessed the matter, we will return to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e765	This case has an eye-catching outcome here in Stortinget. I would like to ask the Council of State what is the government's view today. Does the Council of State still believe that extending Norwegian training rights and obligations is a good proposal, as proposed in the proposal and as put forward by the Council of State and Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e770	The government considered that there was no basis for drawing the case that was promoted by the Stoltenberg II government on 4 October together with the state budget that was then submitted. I now register that Stortinget wants to send the matter back to the government to get a new round of government. I'm going to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way once we've taken that assessment. I understand that the representative thinks this is a little strange when she's been in a majority government for eight years and maybe not used to the majority parties in the Stortinget having something they should have said. For me, it's important to listen to what the committee says, and when the committee at Stortinget has asked the government to take another round on this matter, I'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e779	What is alarming in this matter is that the government has put itself behind a case that the parliamentary basis of the Stortinget now rejects. I note that the Council of State does not reject the fact that she still stands for the content of the proposition. Let me then ask another question. The reason for rejecting this case has been the cooperation agreement negotiated by the government with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then I would like to ask: what is it in this cooperation agreement that makes you reject this matter in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e788	I also record that the majority in this Chamber have not agreed to discuss and debate the content of the matter today. You want to have a greater review of this whole field, and also include what was stated in this agreement. It is open to the majority of the Committee to do so. I warmly welcome that. I'm going to bring the tapes today to the government, and then we're going back to Stortinget with a new case. What's important is that in terms of integration work, there's a lot of pressure on the government, and we need to see if we can't do even better than the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e795	The reality is that if you think this is the right thing, you could have adopted this today and then made a proposal in addition. You don't choose to do that. That's why the question is whether you're really going to do something with this field at all. I will challenge the council again. I stand here with the agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. I've been through it over and over again. There is not one point in the agreement that you can refer to that goes into this specific field we are now talking about, and that says something about strengthening the rights of people who are given the opportunity to live in municipalities, but who are not entitled to Norwegian training or introduction programmes. Can the Council of State indicate to which point of the Cooperation Agreement the Government and Government Parties refer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e804	I can assure the representative, Mr Andersen, that in the cooperation agreement, which concerns both my department and the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Ministry of Justice, there are points that we want to include in the further work. I note that the Committee clearly points out that there are a number of issues and challenges in this case, for which they want to have a more detailed assessment. There's something this government will take seriously. That is why I now want to take the matter back from the Committee to see the whole of it and come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e809	I have noticed that the Council of State has referred several times to the recordings that have been made through the remarks and the debate in the Chamber. It is very commendable that governments listen to what is said and written. What I'm going to ask is what input the council thinks she's got from the bulk of this stuff here today. What is it in this process and the debate that she wants to take on board in the work of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e816	First of all, I record that there is a total accumulation that is very concerned about achieving good integration – that we are getting good qualifications both in Norwegian education and not least in social education, which is important for an overall increase. There are good signals to take with you. Then the majority of the committee, both in its comments and in the debate, has shown that there are many issues that are also raised in the proposition that we are going to take with us. Not least, a cooperation agreement has recently been established with the civil parties. It's important to have those points involved in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e823	I'm asking for a new line, because I don't think either the majority of the population or the Council of State has been particularly clear about what to do instead of the proposals that were in the proposition. I do not think I will get an answer after this line. That is why I ask another question: when can we expect the proposal that was in Prop? 204 L for 2012–2013, will be clarified by the government, and when will the Stortinge have the opportunity to re-examine these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e830	I thank you for a new line. When the Storting now sends the matter back to the government, I usually come to take a new round of business in the government and at least have a goal of getting a new case in place for the Storing, so that we can debate an important field – which is to get the refugees coming to the country well integrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e838	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e843	Now I have lost count of how many times we have heard about problems we are going to ‘come back to’. Besides, it's just wool. I don't understand what problems it is that we are going to get back to. What's interesting? What's the reason why we can't adopt this now – if all of us are so thunderous in agreement? The only post I have heard today that is for the matter is from the Left – which will then also vote against. That's weird. The Christian People's Party has not even taken the floor in this case – such an important case for some of the most vulnerable people who have been given the opportunity to live in this country. I understand it must be difficult for the Council of State when the majority does not trust her ability to judge. The council said the matter was good, and did not withdraw it, and during the examination in the committee she confirmed that she was behind it. I am very disappointed with the result today, and especially with the fact that the Left and Christian People's Party has negotiated away what they call "one bird in hand" towards ten on the roof, which we have no idea what is. That bird could have helped many of these families get a much better start in Norway. To the representative Keshvari of the Progress Party, who says that the previous government had done nothing: I think he'll have to get a new script soon, because now we've heard this many times. In 2012, we increased the number of hours from 300 to 600 to Norwegian education. We have presented action plans against coercion and circumcision. We have expanded the job opportunities, which the Progress Party has systematically removed all the money every year in the opposition so that these women would not get a job shine. We have free core time in Kinderhagen, which we will discuss in connection with the Oslo bet – Groruddalssatsingen – later today. We have transferred several of the lone minor asylum seekers to child protection, and we have had large increases in grants to municipalities in terms of introduction. It's done a lot in this area, and when this case comes now, it's because the law in 2013 was changed so that this personality can now be settled – because you know that most of them are going to be, because they clarify their identity, and because they have demands for residence for strong human reasons. Therefore, it is time to start learning Norwegian and with the introduction programme so that they will actually be able to integrate both the sea and the children – these are families of children – into society. This is a sad matter, and I hope that the Council of State has something more to do with it than to say that there are issues we are going to come back to. We need to have concrete content in what is being said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e858	I understand that there are some parties that are disappointed that you cannot get knocked through this case as it exists today. At the same time, I think it's made an impression here that's mildly misleading. The representative Greni – I think it was – gives a clear impression that the government parties are moving towards the substance of this matter. No, it's wrong. There's a sense that we're going against the government. That's wrong. There's an impression that we're not going to trust the Council of State. That's wrong. On the contrary – we have confidence that the Council of State will now come back, in the light of the agreement that has been concluded. Let me remind you that it was therefore an agreement that was about to be negotiated while the committee also had this matter under consideration, but that the government will now of course have the opportunity to take an overall review of what lies in this matter, see it in the light of what was negotiated in the agreement, and come back to the Stortinget – as the Council of State says – as soon as possible. That is the reality. We have not argued against – neither is there any government party that has – the content of the matter here today. I also think you should notice that. On the contrary, we are waiting and want this matter quickly back to Stortinget after the government has made an overall assessment, among other things. in the light of the agreement actually negotiated between the four lots.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e867	I will give full support to the last speaker, and I fully agree with that. It's strange that the opposition has a need to figure out and construct issues that don't exist and that we haven't expressed. The SV representative mentioned two to three things that they had managed to achieve in eight years in majority management. Many of those proposals were proposals that other parties had been making for many years. What I referred to was concrete in this matter. The agreement we have concluded has an impact in many areas, including what goes on with ID clarification and many other things that may have an impact on this case. The fact that the new government is going to spend a little more time looking at these things in a context across ministerial lines, etc., is not unreasonable at all. It is only fair and reasonable, we believe, and that is why we want to send the matter back. We have not voted against any of the proposals that lie there. We haven't commented on either for or against any of those things. What we've been clear about is the intention of the matter, which is good. We can repeat that if the opposition didn't get it. But in the case of the SV projections, SV does not escape that the results after eight years of red-green government show that they did not do enough – that they were on the wrong track. 5 500 people who have stayed in Norway and remain in reception are not successful either for society or for the individuals concerned. Equally many people who have been refused and are still in reception are not developing correctly. 7,000 others who have been rejected, who no one knows exactly where they are, do not indicate that things went in the right direction. SV was not primarily concerned with integration when they spent eight years in government. They were busy running around to people who had been denied their asylum applications despite the fact that it had been tried many times, and giving them false hopes and expectations that they could stay in Norway only they protested long enough. Many of the people SV were out there and gave these hopes to, were sent out anyway. Instead of focusing on making an effort for integration in the country, they were driving raw populism, for which voters punished them. I just want to repeat that we have not voted down this. There's no kind of distrust. We want the government to assess this matter and come back to Stortinget in the light of the agreement we have entered into, and in the light of a whole in this field that is now in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e882	The President has heard more parliamentary expressions than the term ‘raw populism’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e885	I explained in my first post that we are positive about the intentions, but I fell short when I heard the comments from the representative Karin Andersen here instead. The same representative, Mr Andersen's party SV, has been in government for eight years. It will be a bit special to cook so much soup on a nail that is no longer in the pot. I think this is going to be reconstructing things that don't really match the terrain. It is as many people here have said: we do not reject, we send the matter back. Several of us who support the fact that we will send it back have not gone into the content here or rejected anything about it. So this I think is a slightly needy and constructive debate, especially from the representative of SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e892	The next speaker is the representative Karin Andersen, who is the rapporteur on the matter and thus still has 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e895	Yes, I am the case rapporteur for this matter, and I have been in Stortinget for nearly 17 years, and I have, to be honest, never experienced a case that has had such a treatment as this. Therefore, it is not designed when we point out that the government has actually assessed the matter. The government that is now sitting has assessed the matter and left the proposition behind. In addition, during the proceedings, I sent two letters to the Council of State, where the Council of State has confirmed that the government is behind the proposal, and now it seems that there is a majority in the Chamber that is in favour of the matter as well. But is it adopted? No, no, no. That's what's bad. The representative of the Party of Advancement is up on the pulpit and is taking a lot of views on SV. It's completely uninteresting. This matter is about: Should we give some of the people who will live here in the country the right and duty to Norwegian training and to go on the introduction program? That's good integration, says everyone who's up in the pulpit. No one says anything else. But you vote against, and you're actually going to vote against because the proposal is going to be voted on today, and then you vote against. The government has not asked to look at this matter again. It is the majority of the Grand Duchy who have asked for it, so that the Council of State's assessment of the matter has been disregarded and overestimated. I understand that it's bad for the majority parties to realize, but that's the way it is. The negotiated agreement between the Government Parties and the Left and Christian People's Party is always shown. But I look with light and light in it and find zero results on this particular matter. That means that this matter was on the table during the negotiations and that it was negotiated away. I hope so deeply that it comes back, because it's right and because it's good. It has nothing to do with any polemic relationship between the parties. It is a good thing, and I get to repeat it again: the law was changed in 2013 so that this circuit was allowed to live in a municipality. It was then time to amend the law on introduction — and the right and obligation to Norwegian training — so that those who could become residents were given this right because they were to be integrated. That's why things come in that order. Now it is going to be that a number of people who have the right to reside in municipalities do not have the right and obligation to Norwegian training or the right and obligation to introduce a programme. That means that less is going to be integrated than what was left of this proposition. It's a sad day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e911	Nor is the term 'lire of itself' particularly parliamentary in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e914	I note that the Progress Party will primarily use the time in the hall here today to talk about the snow that fell last year. And I'm not surprised that the Progress Party wants to talk down on what the Workers' Party and the Stoltenberg II government have done, and got it done. But the big question is, if you think that what the previous government did was so bad, why don't you use the government power to present alternatives? Because you don't do that today either. And in the much-discussed cooperation agreement between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party on immigration and integration policy, the policy pursued by the Stoltenberg II government is essentially pursued over eight years. Therefore, first of all, it is very strange that that agreement is the reason why we reject the proposal that we are dealing with here today. Secondly, if the policy of the Stoltenberg II government was so misguided and you have alternative proposals, yes, why don't you get them on the table so that the Storting can decide on them? Instead, you spend a lot of time telling us that the intention of the proposal we are dealing with here today is terribly good, but for diffuse, inexplicable reasons, you can't decide. I think that's very bad. It affects people in a vulnerable situation, as it is urgent to learn Norwegian and to get integrating into Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e923	The representative of Skelstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e927	That power is in Stortinget, obviously is unfamiliar to SV. During this, the four parties were negotiating an agreement. The wholeness may have been a little bit difficult to see for SV, especially, but it was easier for the four. That is why we are sending this matter back. We do not reject the case, as the representative Pedersen now pointed out. It will be sent back; it will not be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e934	The representative Keshvari has also had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e937	The proposals we are promoting, and what we have come up with, do not apply primarily to the matter that is being sent back today. I understand that the policy of the bourgeois parties has come into being is so popular that the Workers' Party wants to take credit for it and see it as a continuation of its own policy. But differentiated reception structure, with integration reception and return centres, was not part of the Labour Party's and the previous government's policies. The 24-year age limit was not part of the policy of the Stoltenberg government. The creation of 500 new more secure reception points was not part of the policy of the Stoltenberg government. The use of closed reception under Section 106 of the Foreign Affairs Act, as it has now been introduced, and the extension of the capacity of Trandum, was not part of the policy of the Stoltenberg Government. I could still have this on a lot of points. So I would recommend the Workers' Party actually to read those points and rather give the government parties credit for what we've got, rather than pretending they were in favour of this policy that they never led themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e949	Now it is the case that we are dealing with today, not about the matters that the representative Keshvari is up in the pulpit and is talking about. This issue is about what everyone says is good integration: that those who are going to live in this country learn Norwegian and get an introduction programme that makes them understand society and the working life of Norway. That's what fewer are going to get now, and that's what's the problem. I hear that the representative from the Left believes that I should be surprised that the power is now in the Stortinget. No, I got it. But what I think the representative from the Left, and from the whole position, today, needs to understand, is that when a government council presents a case to the Stortinget, and confirms to the Stortinget that the government is behind the case, and the majority of people send the matter back, there is a breach of the judgement of the Council of State in this matter, because the Council of State has done well for the content. The strange thing is that it obviously does everybody else too, but they can't vote for it. It is true that the content of the bill – the legislative proposals – is being promoted today, so it is possible for all those who have now been up and told that they are in favour of these changes to vote for it. And when you don't, and you send it back, you've actually voted against it. You have voted against a system that everyone says is good, and that should get going very quickly, because it will lead to more people getting better in society, and the majority of those we're talking about now are families of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e956	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e970	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e977	I would like to pay tribute to the representatives of the Christian People's Party, who have put a very important issue on the agenda. The report ‘Antisemitism in Norway?’ shows that, unfortunately, prejudice against Jews is still widespread. It's problematic when 12 pst. that the people believe that the Jews themselves are to blame for being persecuted. Even more problematic is that 19 pst. agrees that the Jews of the world work in secret to promote Jewish interests, and that the whole of the 26 p.m. believes it is right that Jews view themselves as better than others. A study by the Fundamental Rights Agency found that three out of four Jews were allowed to use Jewish symbols because of increasing antisemitism in Europe. The inhabitants of Norway and Europe are similar to all other citizens and have a natural right to identify themselves as Jews, even in public spaces, without fear of being harassed or subjected to violence. This is a serious relationship. We also see that bullying and harassment of students with Jewish faith in the Norwegian school are increasing. This is thoroughly documented in a report prepared by the Oslo School. Jewish parents in this context said to the NRK that they are directly frightened by the threats their children experience. Some parents believe that harassment is so bad that they consider moving from Norway. This is a totally unacceptable situation, and as a society we have to say clearly that this cannot continue, and that we want to do everything we can to stop this development. It is particularly sad and serious that many of the negative attitudes towards the Jewish population come from other minority communities. Teachers at several schools have stated that they do not dare to teach about the Holocaust in a true way as well as address issues about antisemitism, because they fear represals from students who do not want to be presented with the Jewish historical suffering. This applies in particular to schools with a high proportion of minority language pupils. We need to be crystal clear that Norwegian liberalism towards ethnic and religious groups should, of course, also apply to minority groups. We cannot accept intolerance in the name of tolerance. The Pew report ‘Manifestations of Anti-Semitism in the EU 2002–2003’ is an important and worrying report that we will take seriously. It showed a significant increase in attacks against Jewish businesses, synagogues, graveyards and individuals in Europe. Unfortunately, the Pew study shows that attitudes towards Jews are far more negative — especially in Muslim countries — and it is therefore important that we are clear in the integration work that no form of harassment and discrimination is permitted in Norway, for whatever reason. The number of people who look positive on Jews is less than 10 p.m., and unfortunately even in secular countries like Turkey. These discouraging figures show how important it is to disseminate facts, and we need to make a significant effort to communicate a true story — including to other minority communities. That is why it is very positive that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have been strengthened in the fight against antisemitism by 5 million. kr in the budget for 2014. It's in school that the attitude-making work is going on, and it's a pleasure to have four million. of these funds went directly to educational work at school. We see that it is just among students in school that many anti-Semitic attitudes today are manifest. If the school system is unable to correct a misunderstanding of the Holocaust, the suffering of the Jews and anti-semitism, students will probably take a false historical view with them throughout their lifetime. It's very serious. Therefore, these means are so important. If we are to reduce the antisemitism of the future, we must start with the adults of the future. The increase in antisemitism in Norway is very serious and needs to be controlled and prevented. It is essential that we monitor developments closely and continually assess concrete actions. It is important that we already involve different professional bodies, environments and organisations in the fight against anti-semitism, and that we politicians are aware that these are totally unacceptable attitudes. History must never repeat itself, and it is vital that we combat anti-semitist attitudes at all levels of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1003	From the Right, we will also give tribute to the proposers to put an important theme on the agenda: how we can prevent and combat anti-semitism, one of the most long-standing and serious, but equally complete, day-to-day challenges related to discrimination, persecution and degradation of human dignity. The right shares the views of the proposers on human dignity and the importance of combating all forms of discrimination. We also share the situation description that it seems to be a worrying trend that anti-semitism attitudes both spread and perhaps also rot in some places in our society. Jewish children and adults say that they experience regular bullying and harassment because of their origins. Others, who do not have Jewish background at all, experience that ‘Jews’ are used against them as a mussel word and for harassment purposes. Both parts, of course, are unacceptable. The proposers have a number of concrete proposals. Several of them are about the attention and education of holocausts in school. It's important. But it is also important to take inward that throughout history Jews have been persecuted by various persecutors, with different motives and different reasons. As the Mosaic Religious Society here in Oslo has said in an address to the Municipal and Administrative Committee: "The history of Jewish hatred is a few thousand years old. It neither began nor ended with a holocaust.» Therefore, it is important to have a broader approach than the extermination of Jews during the Holocaust, even though it is difficult to imagine something more terrible than that. And to underline, I also interpret the intention of the proposers this way. Even I don't have a Jewish background, but I have good friends who are Jews, and in recent years I have become considerably more aware that I myself come from a city that in Norwegian context has a significant Jewish immigration and Jewish history. The events have also wanted me to be the chairman of the Jewish Museum in Trondheim – the second Jewish Museum in Norway and the only one outside Oslo. It is an important little museum, which otherwise shares houses with the world's northernmost synagogue. The museum receives several thousand students, confirmations and students annually. It offers its own teaching facilities, and schools in the city and region are active users. Here you get a story about the arrival of a people's group and a religion in Norway. They are told where they came from, why they came, how they were received in Trondheim and the area and how they practiced their religion and customs, but also how they became part of the social and cultural life of the city and the commercial and business life. It is at all a story of how aliens migrated to and gradually integrated into a city and country 100–150 years ago. It is a story that is, of course, used in teaching to create reflection and discussion among young people about today's situation and current challenges: How do we treat people today with other customs, religions, languages and skin colors? Then, of course, it's not just about Jews. At the same time, of course, exciting history and knowledge about the lives and fates of the Jews — including the Holocaust, but also much more than that. The Jewish Museum in Oslo and the Mosaic Religion here is considerably larger than what is in Trondheim, and makes an important effort. Here, there are also arenas and competences that can be used more. It is therefore gratifying that the budgetary agreement between the parties facilitates a specific allocation to the Jewish Museum in Oslo, as part of an action plan against antisemitism. It is also important that the budget of the Ministry of Knowledge, as part of the same work, is provided for in the budget agreement. Efforts at school, like cooperation between school, the Jewish environment and other environments, could contribute to knowledge of Jewish history, Jewish tradition and Judaism, and also to the fact that the Jews are a common Norwegian population, with their own history of immigration and integration into Norwegian society. As with most other things, it's not enough to make an effort once. Knowledge must be disseminated as a basis for understanding, for each new generation. As stated by the Council of State in its reply to the Committee, there is also a great deal of basis in teacher training and curricula for this to be done under the direction of the school. Equally, there may be reason to consider how we can also strengthen the dissemination of these important topics in education. The right looks forward to the follow-up of the government to its efforts to combat anti-semitism, including how such efforts can be linked to other elements of anti-discrimination work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1040	This is a very important matter for the Christian People's Party and, as I understand it, for most other parties. Unfortunately, it is well documented that antisemitism is not an outlawed chapter in Norway. It is a complex problem, and that is why we raised this issue, because we believe that an action plan will focus significantly on this particular phenomenon. The Christian People's Party promoted this for the first time in the Stortinget in winter 2011, and the proposal has been repeated every year and has been voted down by both the red-green and the blue-blue. At the same time, there are reports confirming the need for such an action plan. Among other things, the Mosaic Religion has conducted an investigation among its own members in Oslo and Trondheim. Of about 300 Norwegian Jews at the synagogues in Oslo and Trondheim, 54 say pst. that they have experienced antisemitism. None of the respondents believe that the extent of antisemitism has been reduced in the last ten years. All 33 p.m. by Jewish children experience antisemitism at school. This is a phenomenon that from its history and peculiarity goes beyond ordinary bullying. Many people also experience newer forms of bullying. They may be indirectly accused and held responsible for the policy of the State of Israel. The Christian People's Party believes that it should be a country in the lead with the action plan against antisemitism. With our past in mind, it would have been desirable to have such an action plan in the anniversary year of the Constitution. It would have been a good opportunity to show a more offensive line, and such a plan could be based on many of the good experiences that Norwegian authorities already have from the fight against anti-semitism and elements from extreme environments, etc. The OSCE has criticised Norway for not doing enough to monitor and combat hate crime. The Christian People's Party shares the OSCE's concern and believes that there is a need for continuous monitoring of websites and extremist environments where antisemitism is widespread, as well as stronger responses to hate crime against Jews. We no longer think we can wait for or accept new discouraging figures or information about this. The Christian People's Party is very happy that we got 5 million. kr in the revised state budget: 4 mill. kr to school, education and learning material and 1 million. kr to the Jewish Museum. This shows a good will and a proper direction, and we appreciate what has been done on that occasion. At the same time, the Council of State and the Department have pointed out in their case documents several good solutions to the problem, but I can mention an example that I think shows that we are far too little clear. This is the proposal asking for teacher training to be given a stronger emphasis on knowledge of antisemitism and holocaust. It says in the case study from the Department: ‘There is good coverage in the plan for emphasising knowledge about antisemitism and Holocaust, but the words have not been specifically used. Instead, terms such as tolerance, democracy, religions, human rights, etc.’. This is an example of how sometimes we become too unclear, and of the problem of anti-semitism and Jewish hatred being tried to put into other terms. We believe that to be too passive. Finally, in the case study, the Council of State states: ‘The government will come back to the form and content of how a response to anti-semitism can be implemented and how it should be related to other elements of anti-discrimination policy.’ We appreciate that, and we're looking forward to it coming. We will follow the matter carefully in the future and allow us to recall our proposal in the vote, which is now annexed to the Minutes. In the first point of the proposal, we ask that the holocaust day be marked annually in all schools. In the second point, we ask that teacher training be given a much stronger emphasis on knowledge of holocaust and antisemitism. We also propose to ask the government to strengthen school education in order to be able to provide compulsory training on holocaust in all relevant subjects, and to make proposals for good financial support schemes so that classes can go on study trips. I remember that the holocaust took place not just in Poland. Holocaust started in Norwegian towns and cities, and it is a very important part of general education. In the fourth point, we ask the government to ensure that the Mosaic Religious Society receives ongoing support for security expenditure and continuous vigilance at its institutions, and in the fifth point, we ask the government to ‘promote proposals for changes to the penal code to ensure stronger responses to hate crime’. We're looking forward to a follow-up of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1072	The central party will praise the Christian People's Party for putting the spotlight on a social sin that we all have to stand together to fight. I share the basis for the proposal for an action plan against anti-semitism by the representatives of the Christian People's Party. «The representatives of the Christian People's Party hold human dignity high and fight against all forms of discrimination», says, in the introduction of Document 8, and there is no doubt that the Jews are one of the peoples most exposed to discrimination, racism and abuse throughout history. It is totally unacceptable that acts still take place in Norway today, justified by racial hatred against Jews. It is therefore right, as it is stated in the Christian People's Party's explanatory statement for the proposals: ‘Many are unable to distinguish between factual criticism of the policy of the State of Israel and a hateful attitude towards Jews in general.’ Based on the facts we know, among other things. that bullying and harassment of students with Jewish faith in Norwegian schools is an increasing problem, an overall committee believes it is important to involve different professional bodies, environments and organisations in the fight against anti-semitism in order to change these conditions. It is clear from the letter from the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion that a number of measures included in the proposal for an action plan have already been initiated by current or previous governments. I therefore believe that the Committee has concluded correctly when it proposes that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. This does not mean, however, that the question of further action against anti-semitism should be taken into account. On the contrary, it needs to be intensified through measures already in place. The representatives of the Christian People's Party, through their proposal, have helped to put the spotlight on a major challenge in Norwegian society. Discrimination, racism and the abuse of ethnic groups are happening in Norwegian society today, and that is something we all need to be together to do something about. Here are a number of people who contribute to building our country through active participation in social and cultural life, and they are subjected to racist assaults as a result of their faith and cultural background. We cannot, and we should not, accept such actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1090	I would also like to thank the proposers for focusing on an important question. On the left, we are pleased that, through the treatment of this, we are facing challenges related to antisemitism up to debate in this Chamber, for anti-semitism is, as an overall committee underlines in the vote, by no means a chapter passed either in Europe or in Norway – regrettably. Several of them have already referred to a 2008 Pew survey, which shows that a relatively high – sometimes frighteningly high – proportion of the population of countries such as Spain, Poland and Russia has a very negative view of Jews. The same Pew study also shows that attitudes towards Jews are consistently negative among a very large proportion of the population of Muslim countries, for example in Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Pakistan and Iran. In Norway, in addition to several reports in the NRC and other media, we have the HL Centre’s 2012 survey. It shows that about 12 pst. of the Norwegian population is prejudiced against Jews. In a study carried out by the Mosaic Religion among its own members not very long ago, none of the questions asked thought that the extent of antisemitism has been reduced in the last ten years. It gives cause for reflection. In a broader perspective, there is reason for extra concern when we know that those in Norway who show strong anti-Semitism attitudes are also among those who are most negative to other minority groups in our society, including space, Muslims or others. It shows that we have a job to do in combating prejudices in general in our society. In view of this, I am pleased that the cooperation parties, in good dialogue with the government, increased the budget for the current year to strengthen the work against anti-semitism in Norway. I believe that the key in the fight against antisemitism and prejudices in general is knowledge. Without knowledge, we are unable to mobilize the good attitudes and mutual respect that our society depends on precisely in this fight. Therefore, it is good and important that the role of the school has been raised. I believe that good, liberal attitudes towards prejudices must also form the basis for combating prejudices. Because you have to fight prejudices, you have to fight them with knowledge. Much of the challenge lies in our history subject, how we teach history, how history skills give us teachers who teach in the field, and not least what kind of knowledge young people today really get about persecuting groups through history. My co-representative, Trine Skei Grande, has previously raised this issue from this pulpit. I think it's important that we look at how we rig history lessons in school to get the most knowledge possible and create a consciousness to fight prejudices. With regard to concrete measures that are addressed in the proposal for a representative, I would like to stress that, although we share the intention behind the proposal, the Left has a different approach than the proposers. That was the last time we had made these proposals in Stortinget, in both 2011 and 2012. For example, this is a case in point. the extent to which an additional emphasis of anti-semitism by the Department is to be placed on teacher training or other possible changes in criminal law, or on the safety costs of the Mosaic Religion. Here we share many of the assessments made in the letter from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1101	I should also like to congratulate the rapporteurs. It is an important theme they address and, as the Committee's comments show, we are united on the importance of working against racism, discrimination and anti-Semitism. I just want to say that the measures that include: The Jewish Museum is doing, with its information and other things, very well, and it is very important that they have the opportunity to continue their work related to it. Then the schools have also been mentioned, and I just have to look at the fact that the schools are very important in this job, which is about all kinds of racism, discrimination and harassment of people – that we are not allowed to go on in our country. So the schools, as I said, and the way they choose to teach on those themes, are very important. I wish that all of our primary school students could get this trip to Poland – White buses, as it was hot before, now it's most likely with planes, but at least – that they had the opportunity to let everyone participate in such a scheme. There's very good feedback on that teaching method -- going there and actually seeing what was going on. So I'm very happy that the committee in its comments is very clear that we all need to keep an eye on the development of anti-semitism in society and take the necessary action to do so. We also need to ensure that we get with us all the professional bodies, environments and organisations that are possible, in order to get the best possible result in this important job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1112	I would also like to thank the proposers. It's a very important thing. I think we have to remind ourselves that our own story, including in this house, is such that we have had a constitution where there has been a Jewish paragraph. It says a little bit about this being a historical legacy that is ugly and heavy, and with which we have to settle – I think – in the future. Unfortunately, I am a little pessimistic about believing that racism and discrimination will disappear, but it is possible to try to combat it. If you look at it a bit historically, it was actually not that there were only bloodthirsty SS or Gestapo people who arrested the Norwegian Jews and picked them up at schools and workplaces – there were many common Norwegians. It's easy for people to be drawn into this kind of hate and hate against groups or different thinking. Trondheim has been mentioned before. There they had for many years a scheme for school students where Julius Paltiel told about his meetings with the absolute horror. Many other time witnesses have, but many of them are no longer alive. That's why I think we need to look at how this can be done in the future, so that new generations will know what this is. I saw in the evening post that a young Jewish boy in Trondheim named Nikolay wrote that he no longer could bear the david star. I mean, it's actually not to live with for us as a society. It's not acceptable. School is important, but home is also important. It's incredibly important how to talk about other people, what to stop by hot and degrading talk about other peoples or beliefs. It's also the case that many of us are participating in online debates, and it's not long, in many of the online debates I've had, before there are very negative views about, for example. migrants and Muslims, or the conspiracy theory about Jews coming up. Almost no matter what thing you discuss, this comes up – so it lives. And it's a bit of a cruel irony that in holocaust's aftermaths – that is, when the measure of racism and hatred is genocide against the Jews – there's a lot you can get away with today. I have, like others, heard the catastrophes against the romans, for example. and saw the contempt in the eyes of the people. I've been to the online debates and I've seen contempt for immigrants and Muslims. The genocide of the Jews was such a violent crime that very much can grow big in the shadow of it if we don't have the ability to see what this is in the nucleus. Then it is possible that many have seen a little between the fingers when a Jewish teenage boy in the schoolyard must answer for Israel's occupation of Palestine – I know many must, and it is totally unacceptable – or that Rogaland's newspaper, in what I would call sluggishness, prints an post signed 'Stolen Antisemite' a few days after the Crystal Night last year, or that ordinary politicians can trick off without further thought and without further reflections such as'really enough, look up the bus, send them out', about a minority who, like the Jews, were victims of holocaust. I think there is a very broad consensus in this matter. The only thing that amazes me in the matter is that a note that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV have – about the study to which the Centers for Study of Holocaust and Life Synonyms have referred and which is also referred to by the Council of State in its letter to the Stortinget – does not have a majority. What it shows is that it's 12 pst. of the Norwegian population who have prejudiced against Jews, but those we have the most prejudiced against are Muslims, Somalis and Roma people, i.e. Gypsies. The fact that we have strong anti-Semitic attitudes in Norway is terrible, but it is also unacceptable that there are prejudices against other groups. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State says that she will look at how this is to be implemented and how it should be related to other aspects of anti-discrimination policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1129	Like the Committee, I look very seriously at all forms of racism, and I want to praise the rapporteurs who have put this important theme on the agenda. People should not feel afraid to express their faith and identity. Freedom of belief and life is an important principle enshrined in the Constitution and is an individual right for all people in Norway. In view of this, antisemitism will also be a central theme of the government’s work against discrimination. But this work is not only being done in my department, but in several departments, and it also shows the measures that the government is now working on. Unfortunately, it is well documented that antisemitism exists in Norway, as in other countries in Europe. Therefore, there is no doubt that there is a need for measures to combat both anti-Semitism and racism. To the points in the proposal that have been put forward, I can say that they are mainly taken into account in the ongoing work in the field. Among other things, the holocaust marking is well integrated in many schools' education, but we want to mobilise even more schools. Competence about the holocaust is well covered in the curriculum, but education will and must be further strengthened. The Ministry of Knowledge looks at proposals related to e-learning services, courses for teachers and other educational services aimed at students. This extra effort will be made thanks to the additional millions received by the Ministry of Knowledge in 2014 through the budget agreement at Stortinget. Paragraph 4 of the proposal states that we must constantly ensure security around the Mosaic Religion. As the committee is probably familiar with, it is proposed to grant 1 million. kr for the day-to-day operation of security measures around the Mosaic Religious Society in 2014. Furthermore, matters that appear racistally motivated shall be given priority by police and prosecution authorities. I can inform you that the government wants to create a better protection against discrimination. We want to promote a universal equality and non-discrimination law. Discrimination also includes discrimination on the grounds of religion. As of this year, gender equality and discrimination issues have been strengthened, so that the enforcement of, among others, this prohibition shall be more effective. It is desirable that more issues relating to discrimination be promoted for the Ombudsman and, more specifically, for the Ombudsman. The majority of the Committee suggests that the Holocaust Centre has made several proposals to counter anti-semitism. Their study ‘Antisemitism in Norway?’ is the first comprehensive population survey in Norway on attitudes towards Jews. The study revealed pronounced prejudices against Jews. In order to make any developments visible, such a review must be re-examined. Other recommendations by researchers, including population surveys on Muslim attitudes, will also be considered. As a follow-up to the first population survey, the Ministry of Knowledge has decided to strengthen the research and teaching skills of the Holocaust Centre in the field of antisemitism. It is also working on continuing and correcting the registration of hate crime by the police, along with the proposal of the Holocaust Centre. The study from the Holocaust Centre also shows that negative attitudes are directed at Muslims and Roma. All 76 pst. of those prejudiced against Jews also reject Muslims, and we should be aware that the study includes the attitudes of a representative sample of the Norwegian population. This shows us that antisemitism and other forms of discrimination often occur simultaneously. That is why I believe that an overall approach to discrimination is important. Attitudes — many of them here — in schools and in society must be directed towards the elements of prejudice in general, regardless of whether they are hot against space, antisemitism, homophobia or Islamophobia. I share the concern of the proposers that Jews in Norway are exposed to anti-semitism. The knowledge we have gained in recent years also shows that there is a need for action. Discrimination and bullying occur in everyday situations and very often in school everyday life. The size has granted $5 million. kr in 2014 for an effort against antisemitism. This will contribute to an important strengthening of anti-racist work. The government will come back to which strategies and tools we want to use, and what other content the further efforts will have – in addition to the work being done in several departments, as the proposers and the Stortinge are also aware of, and which is an important work that we must continue to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1171	The increase in anti-semitist attitudes is frightening. When Jewish children are threatened at school and studies show that many – three out of four – European Jews refuse to show their belongings publicly, we have a serious and fundamental problem. Society has a responsibility to ensure that Jews are not stigmatised. The report ‘Antisemitism in Norway?’ shows that those who show anti-semitism attitudes are more likely to support anti-Israeli attitudes. We have a responsibility to ensure that Norwegian Jews are not held responsible for political decisions in the State of Israel, while we are clear that it is, of course, perfectly legitimate to support the democratic state of Israel. It is important that we ensure that some anti-Israeli attitudes do not slip into anti-Semitism. Then we have to make sure that the school correctly informs about both the Holocaust and the suffering of the Jews. I am shocked when I hear stories about teachers who fail to inform well enough about holocaust, fear of reprisals from students and superiors. Such a development is very worrying and gives a country- and time-period-like gust to which we do not like to compare. We politicians have to make sure that the school properly fulfills its social mission in this field as well. I am therefore pleased that the government and the cooperation parties are now putting this important issue on the agenda, among other things. by granting 4 million. for information and antisemitism work in the Norwegian school. When ‘Jews’ have become a common shell word in Oslo School, these means do not arrive a second too early. Unfortunately, studies show that Muslim countries are clearly overrepresented in terms of negative attitudes towards Jews. We must be clear that even people from this group of countries are given an objective and neutral introduction to history and the atrocities that antisemitism has previously brought. Here integration and school play a key role, while politicians have to be crystal clear about what values we as a society expect. Jewish hatred is an increasing problem, and we have to dry out talking about this problem in a prejudiced way. I am pleased that the new government and government council Horne is taking these challenges seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1187	The proposal by the Christian People's Party raises an important debate and an important matter. The central party shares both the concerns behind the proposal and the desire to fight unacceptable acts and attitudes. A study by the Center for the Study of Holocaust and Life Sight Minorities, conducted on behalf of the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion, points to attitudes that are bad to take over exists in Norway today. Correctly, almost all respondents respond that it is a pity that Norwegian Jews are being harassed. At the same time, 51 pst. by the respondents it is known that the word ‘Jew’ has been used as a shell word. Quite enough, many people answer that one cannot accept such a use of words, and that they would experience it as unpleasant if it happened. It's not uplifting to see that many people forget that it was meant to be a joke, and that there's no reason to react if it wasn't directed against Jews. This is a small image of this investigation, but it points to the dangerous indifference. According to the investigation, 12 pst. by the population outspoken prejudices against Jews. Nevertheless, many people do not take this seriously. Not only do Jews experience discriminatory behaviors, but they also experience aliens, Muslims, and Somalis. ‘Jew’ and ‘homo’ are used as shell words in the formality and on the football course. This is a sign of a societal challenge that we have to take seriously. We cannot accept that children in school are being bullied because they are Jewish, Muslim, or gay. The increase in antisemitism in Norway is both serious and unacceptable. It is a social responsibility to address all discrimination, harassment and racism. For this reason, on a principle basis, the Centre believes that the law must cover racism and hate crime in general. The red-green government is launching more measures that we hope will take preventive action. But we are also open to see that there are several measures to be taken to combat racist acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1202	There has been a very good debate that shows the strength of Norwegian society: that regardless of where we stand politically and ideologically, regardless of religion and all other differences, we stand on some fundamental, important principles and values that will apply to our society. I think that's what the debate is about. The reason I took the floor was that I was very uncertain when the representative Karin Andersen pointed out that the committee had not supported the one comment. As I remember, we agreed to that, and if we haven't, it's because of a mistake and not because of a political disagreement or because we don't support the reality of that remark. I just wanted to say that, at least on the part of the Progress Party, we support everything in that comment. It is important to combat all forms of discrimination, harassment, bullying and injustice in our society no matter who it hits. Unfortunately, injustice and injustice affect more groupings in our society, and we must take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1209	Then that clarification is noted, and we go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1212	When the proposal for a separate action plan against antisemitism is under discussion today, it is also about addressing the fight against discrimination on an important and, at the same time, on a general basis. Unfortunately, antisemitism does not belong to just part of our history or is something a mere finder in other parts of the world. This also exists today in Norway. The studies published and carried out by the Holocaust Centre have been referred to, showing data that give cause for concern. One in five Northmen supports the claim that the Jews of the world work in secret to promote Jewish interests, one in four Northmen believe it is right that Jews view themselves as better than others, and almost 40 pst. by those who asked, Israel's treatment of the Palestinians is equivalent to the treatment of the Jews by the Nazis during World War II. We are also aware of the fact that the Mosaic Religion has carried out investigations among its own members in Oslo and Trondheim. Of about 300 Norwegian Jews at the synagogues in Oslo and Trondheim, 54 say pst. that they have experienced antisemitism. Nine out of ten say that the media coverage of the Middle East conflict has led to more antisemitism, and of those asked, there is not a single person who believes that the extent of antisemitism has been reduced in the last ten years. School students tell us that they experience this in everyday life. 3.5 pst. Of the students in Oslo secondary schools, negative events occur at least two to three times a month because of their religious background, while the proportion among Jewish children is a total of 33 pst. For comparison, 5 pst. such adverse events by Muslim children in Oslo School. We're celebrating the 200th anniversary of the Constitution this year. If one goes into the story and what reasons were provided for the so-called Jewish paragraph 200 years ago, one with shame must record that some of the attitudes revealed in the 2013 survey in our country were alarmingly similar to that stated in 1814. I would therefore strongly urge – on behalf of the Christian People's Party – that now a work be started that can address the serious discrimination challenges we still face in Norway in general, but also especially in the case of the Jews. We need action now, and that is why I am also pleased with what the Council of State has said today, that this work will be followed up, and that it will start up already this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1221	I would also like to thank the proposers for focusing on an important issue. Antisemitism is not a chapter, either in Europe or in Norway. Studies show that a frighteningly high proportion of the population in countries such as Spain, Poland and Russia have a negative view of Jews. I got shocked by that 46 pst. of the Spanish have a negative view of Jews, and every five citizens in France have prejudices against Jews. As regards attitudes towards Jews in Muslim countries, it is not surprising that there are consistently negative attitudes in Muslim countries. Clearly, this is also propagating to Norway and to Norwegian Muslims. We need to know something about this in order to do something about it. In Norway, studies show that at least 12 pst. by the Norwegian population is prejudiced against Jews. Most of the prejudices, however, are against Muslims, Somalis and Roma. In connection with the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, it is important to go back in history and look at the abuses we and our nation have subjected Norwegian Jews to. Jews were prohibited by the Constitution of 1814, and even if the provision was amended in 1851, the Jesuits had to wait on their side until 1956. We also know the darkest chapters of the war, where Norwegian Jews were deported to concentration camp. As I understand it, today there is only one Norwegian surviving Jew left in Norway by those who were deported from Norway. Samuel Leon – also called Sammy – Steinmann is the only living Jewish Northman who has survived the concentration camp Auschwitz. I understand, after talking to my Jewish friends yesterday – I see some people are at the gallery today – that while excuses have been received from official Norway, from the Prime Minister's Office and from the Stortinget, because the abuses they were subjected to, they are still waiting for Norwegian courts to apologize. It's still not too late to do anything about this if the courts choose to take this ball. In this debate on racism, antisemitism, Islamophobia, we need to think about why we want to do something about this. Is it primarily because we feel sorry for the Muslims and the Jews that we want to do something about this? I think that's the wrong perspective. We have to want to do something about this because it's a disease sign in our own people that you have hate against groups of people. It's this abomination in parts of our own people we'd have to cure. I think we need a broad action plan, not just to combat anti-Semitic attitudes, not just to counter radicalisation – we need to put it much wider than that. I therefore ask the Council of State to include the fight against everyday racism and anti-Semitism in the action plan in its work on a new action plan. It is important to focus on radicalisation and everything else, but everything else must not fall into the shadow. This grunt is closely linked. The old slogan ‘Fight against all racism, where you work, where you live’ is the good old and well-known slogan that contains what we need to succeed, and this must be anchored in the government’s action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1236	When the Christian People's Party has addressed this matter, it is because we believe this is a particular phenomenon, both historically and according to international law and other circumstances. We are very pleased with what has emerged here today. The representatives have made it clear what their parties stand for, and this indicates that there is a very strong cross-political position in Norway and in Parliament that this is a phenomenon we cannot accept. I am also very pleased with the follow-up of the Council of State, which will draw this out in both education and other things, so that concrete action is taken against this obscenity called antisemitism and Jewish hatred. We all have to contribute, through both general folk and publicity, and try to change attitudes, because these are attitudes. When the representative Karin Andersen calls for political parties in a note, and Keshvari follows it up, I will say from the Christian People's Party that this procedure here went a little fast for us. We recorded that it was to be consulted also in education and justice, and there we were ready with comments, but it was only the whole committee that could go in with a comment, and not single representatives, so it looks so strange. Of course, the Christian People's Party is in favour of that remark – we are asking for it to be noticed – it should be lacking. It is a very important matter for us, and when this matter is finally annexed to the Minutes, and we do not promote a counter-proposal, it is because we expect – based on what has been said – that this will be followed up in the political work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1243	It's stupid with these speeches, that you get 3 minutes at a time – you almost don't finish a comment. But now I'm back here, at least. This document 8 referred back to a few years ago, when we had these riots in Oslo. Although these riots have ended, and even though the physical violence we have clearly so pronounced has at least taken a break – one cannot say it has ended – these attitudes have not disappeared. It's not like they've gone away. As a result of these riots, I took the initiative to hold a dialogue meeting at the House of Literature. I think it helped to calm the muzzles. One of the dialogue meetings that followed focused on Jewish hatred. One year before the famous NRK report, we focused on Jewish hatred at a meeting at the House of Literature. It was stated openly and clearly that some Muslims born and raised in Norway — born and raised in Norway, a Norwegian product — believe, and this was communicated at the dialogue meeting of some, that Jews were born with deceit and hypocrisy in their blood. There are frightening and unacceptable attitudes, which are found in Norway among the Nordics with different skin colors, not only in those with brown skin color with Islam as religion but also in ethnic whites. When I talk to my Jewish friends, they tell me about conspiracy theories that I've never actually heard of. More well-known conspiracy theories that Jews should be vindictive, that they should take over the finances of the world and conspire for world domination, etc., we have heard of, but a theory that they are killing Christian children for their blood was completely new to me. I heard it yesterday. I had to google to get into this. A number of these conspiracy theories are equal to the hatred that Muslims are exposed to. Then it's very strange that the group that is exposed to hate itself, that is, Muslims, is the group that in turn participates in exposing Jews to hatred, and perhaps more hate than other groups. I think there is reason to believe that there is a more widespread hatred among Muslims against Jews in Norway than among other groups, at least in percentage terms. This is related to what we know about in some Muslim countries it's under 10 pst. who have a positive attitude towards Jews. If you move physically from one Muslim country to another after a few hours of flight, you have not changed attitudes mentally. It is an important work, which I hope the government will consider when presenting a new action plan. – If no one has signed up on the list of speakers, do I think I have occasion for a 1 minute post?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1260	You have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1263	Can I draw from here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1268	You can draw from here. Representative Abid Q. Raja gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1273	Thank you, President. In conversation with Ervin Kohn yesterday, it was communicated to me that the Mosaic Religious Society and the Anti-racist Center specifically wanted a support of 3 million. kr from the Ministry of Knowledge, possibly also from the Committee, and since the Council of State is here today, I would like to convey it further. There are three specific posts. They say that if they had three posts over three years, that's 3 million. kr a year – they will be able to cover all the major cities and all secondary schools in the major cities of Norway and to do important dialogue work, where you can tell the story of the Jews. You can tell about the hatred that Jews are exposed to, and do dialogue work on it, but also tell about the Muslims and what Muslims are exposed to. I believe it is so crazy little money that I hope the Council of State who sits here – and I see her nodding a little – is able to find money for such a targeted and concrete project: three pieces full-time, which can go around high school and inform about this important work. I think, as an active dialogue maker at the House of Literature, that this is the most important and easiest thing we can do. Then you can always get to grips with curricula and everything else that has been presented, which are good intentions and good things. Of course, this work must start in high school. You have to start talking about bad and difficult things already then. But we can also intensify work in secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1285	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1301	Area initiatives are about equalising social differences, providing equal opportunities, avoiding the development of urban areas with major problems and improving the living environment, improving environmental conditions, creating security and well-being in our big cities. They are based on analyses based on social criteria, where it has been established that, in the areas under consideration, there are special challenges for many with low incomes, many child protection cases, for many outside the labour market, etc. These are rather small budget lines in the state budget and in municipal budgets, but it is crucial for Norway as a whole that we succeed in avoiding having problem cities in some parts of the country, as we have seen in other countries in Europe. I can divide these efforts into three groups after they were started: the first were launched in the capital message, which came in 2006–2007. There is also a broader justification based on living conditions, etc. for the bets, as I was at the beginning. The main initiative, which was launched there, is the Groruddals bet, which will go for 10 years from 2007. There's a 50-mill spice layer between the state and the municipality. SEK + 50 million. In addition, there are other elements such as free core time, i.e. 20 hours free in kindergartens in the four districts of Groruddalen, as well as increased school effort and some other positive things. The same applies to Oslo Sør betingen, which is an action programme in Søndre Nordstrand, which also runs for 10 years from 2007, and where it has been at least 12 million. SEK + 12 million. Denmark, where free core time in kindergartens and increased schooling has also been important elements. Later, the area lift came in Bergen as well. It was launched in the 2012 budget – a 6.7 million bet on the living environment. kr in the districts of Årstad, Inner Laksevåg and Outer Arna and also free core time in kindergartens in some of the same areas. In Trondheim, housing in the Saupstad-Kolstad district is also worth 2.6 million. kr from 2012. One of the new bets to be launched from this year is in the Drammen, in the area of Fjell and parts of Stroemsø city. There have been free core hours in kindergartens in these areas, but from this year on, you have to start an area lift. It was proposed 15 million. kr on the original budget of the previous government, and now up to 7 million. kr for this environmental activity. A new effort has also been made in cooperation between the Municipality of Oslo and the Government of Tøjen in Oslo, the inner East, where the State budget for 2014 is committed to a commitment of approx. Twenty-five million. In the Middle East, and in the budget of the Municipality of Oslo, a total of 25 million has been committed. kr in the Tøen area. It's very positive to say about the exposure and the results that these bets have generated. I can mention three main points. One is that the shattered state, municipalities, towns, non-governmental organisations, housing co-operation, housing laws, sports laws, cultural life, church and religious communities have triggered much more than the appropriations. It has created a positive attitude, a belief in the future, an optimism, a new identity, a pride in the areas we have missed. A picture of it can be in Oslo South, Søndre Nordstrand, where they have made a new festival they call Be the proud festival – a huge collection in Søndre Nordstrand. Saupstad-Kolstad in Trondheim has a similar festival, and in Groruddalen we have GranittRock. All of these are pictures of how new engagement is created through these bets. The working method has been that the fission layer has been put into practice in area-lifting locations where social indicators point to special challenges. Specific restricted areas have been selected, for example: in Groruddalen. The Högenstua is one of them. There was the Municipal Committee last week. We saw how to – among other things through an action called the World House – creating a new arena, a new meeting place, for the development of local forces and new initiatives, both for prevention among young people and through activities for the elderly and for the whole population. In this part of town we also saw what the effort in free core time to learn Norwegian and to grow up together and learn each other's cultures have meant for the development of positive content, greater ability to succeed in the school run, etc. When we were visiting there last week, they told us that everyone who now starts school in the Stovner district has gone to kindergarten and been through the special arrangements – among others. in the case of language — which is now carried out in kindergartens where they have free core time. The same saw the committee when it was visiting Haugherud school, which had been a school well below average when it applied to grades and results in Oslo School. Enthusiasm was huge at Haugerud school to raise the school above average, which they had now succeeded in. There were environmental therapists as part of the Groruddals bet, they had extra math and Norwegian hours, and they had some government positions that gave these opportunities to do something extra to succeed in new ways. The bets have been in the Grorud Valley in certain places such as Romsås, Furuset, where there has been quite a change in the local environment, and Wetvet-Slettleøkka, and it is now beginning in new areas. The same thing happens in Søndre Nordstrand and the other parts of the country where there are bets. Common activities include language and community, safe and attractive outdoor areas, physical activity, highways, public health and the creation of meeting places with participation. What I particularly want to focus on today are five issues, and I would like to address with the Council of State how to develop this positive further. First of all, the mention of these initiatives in the government budgets, on the part of the government and also at the time of the treatment here in the Stortinget, is quite scattered because there are some words here and there in different departments. You have to look with a magnifying glass to find out where it says something, and there has also been little connection in the treatment from our side here on the Stortinget. When items are spread, where they are to be applied for during the year, etc., an involvement is assumed in the departments and by the government to trigger these investments locally. I am in favour of the approach that was now taken in the State Budget to bring together more in one department – i.e. in the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation – which took over a department in the Ministry of Environmental Protection that had been responsible for, among other things. The Groruddal bet earlier. Now the majority of the department is more concentrated and better coordination can be achieved. But it requires a clear commitment from the departmental management, a commitment to reporting on all projects, and a commitment to providing the Storting with a more comprehensive presentation in the budgets of how to develop these initiatives in the years to come. My second question — or the issue before the Council of State — concerns how to give the bets greater long-term perspective. It's obvious that we've created more faith in the future and more commitment, that we have positive results and started a positive development, but it's also obvious that we're far from being in the goal. For example, in the Grorud Valley, in the same areas that you work in, you still have the accumulation of the social problem indicators in the same way we have seen before. It has not changed significantly for the time being. We have problems with security in the local environment, such as: The case of 19 child orphans, who just now went for Oslo District Court, shows. We have problems moving out of school circles, so we get more one-sided composition in terms of students' background on a good part of the schools, which of course also makes the language challenges bigger. So we need to agree on an extension of these bets, and I hope and believe that it can be combined with evaluating and improving them along the way. It is a unanimous decision to do so, including: in Søndre Nordstrand city, and there was a broad cross-political attitude to it also in election meetings up in the Groruddalen. So I hope that the Council of State can aim to clarify in the course of the year how to add up to an extension of these efforts to take care of the good that is created, and to build them up further. Furthermore, I would like to point out that there is a need to trigger more involvement from several state agencies. I think of Nav in terms of work, I think of transportation, of the State Road Service, and I think of the Ministry of Culture in terms of sports facilities. There's more to come back to – thank you!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1333	There are important questions for the representative Jan Bøhler to travel, and I would like to give tribute to both the representative Bøhler and other representatives on the osloben to address questions that matter to our capital. The territorial approach is a cooperation between the country and the municipality to combat differences and promote integration and better environment in the metropolitan areas. Bøhler asks how the government will proceed with the bets. The government is running an active urban policy, and we want to work to develop good solutions with the big cities. Some major urban areas face major complex living conditions challenges. It is good policy to give cities greater opportunities to meet the challenges themselves. The cities need action spaces and increased freedom from state detail management. At the same time, we see that some challenges are best addressed when the municipality and state cooperate. In some urban areas, therefore, the state and local authorities have joined forces on joint regional initiatives. Such bets are in addition to ordinary operations and general welfare arrangements. Over the State budget for 2014, six different areas have been allocated: three in Oslo and one in each of the cities of Bergen, Trondheim and Drammen. Groruddalssatsingen in Oslo is the most extensive area bet, with a duration of 10 years. In the Groruddalen, which has as many inhabitants as Stavanger, there are several areas of living conditions challenges. Through the Groruddalssatsingen, state and local authorities contribute financially to improving the environment and living conditions. There are routes made for walking and cycling, outdoor areas are being upgraded, and organisational life and volunteering are being strengthened. I agree with the representative Bøhler that the involvement shown locally in this type of bet is itself important. Citizens are involved in determining the measures taken. Urban parks are being built, and old cultural environments are being established as new meeting places. The health centres offer pregnant assistance to, among others: prevention of diabetes. Schools with weak learning outcomes receive increased resources. Free core time in kindergartens means that more children can Norwegian when they start school. The Oslo Sør action programme is an area bet in the Søndre Nordstrand district. Here, the State and the Oslo Municipality work together to strengthen the urban community's work on integration, public health and housing challenges. The experience from the eight specially selected areas in the Groruddalen – so-called area lift – has been transferred to the municipality of Bergen and the municipality of Trondheim. Municipalities receive annual grants through the Husbank for urban areas exposed to living conditions. Since 2011, Bergen has been working to improve conditions in Årstad, Inner Laksevåg and Outer Arna, while Trondheim has been working with Saupstad-Kolstad since 2012. In 2014, the State submitted support for two additional regional initiatives, one in Oslo and one in Drammen. Several departments work together to strengthen Drammen municipalities' self-help efforts so that they can improve the living conditions of the mountains. In the inner east of Oslo there are also areas with major living conditions challenges. Therefore, a similar cooperation has been established with the Municipality of Oslo, with the support of the State. Area bets are made in cities across Europe. Experience has shown that they can contribute to the renewal of the public sector. The area stakes have a high transfer value to ordinary management, not least in terms of the need to think in a holistic manner. At the same time, we know that such a transfer of knowledge does not always take place, and there is room for improvement. If an area effort is to succeed, it must be co-operated across sectors and management levels. It may be a challenge, but in Groruddalssatsingen we see that good solutions have been developed. Secondly, an area effort must be well anchored at all stages, and we have different experiences here. Some of today's area plots lacked sufficient anchoring in the administration when they were launched. As a result, it has taken a longer time to get started and has been more difficult to make use of regional efforts for ordinary management. Experiences from, among others: The Alna School of Young Leaders in Groruddalen has shown that regional initiatives can promote local initiatives. The government has faith in strengthening cooperation between the public and voluntary sectors. Territorial efforts can be a good tool for involving citizens and facilitating contact between residents and several management stages. It is important that the experience we experience in these areas benefits all the municipalities of the country. Another experience is that it may be difficult to measure the results of area bets. Physical measures, such as the construction of highways and parks and the upgrading of buildings, are clearly visible. The impact of some social interventions, on the other hand, may be difficult to detect. What is the consequence of an area effort, and what is the consequence of a more general policy, can be unclear. The main objective of regional action is to improve the environment and cohesion of living conditions. International research points out that territorial efforts have limited impact, in particular with regard to the objective of balancing living conditions. It is difficult to combine targeted area actions and ordinary welfare services. In other words, there's a gap between some of the goals of the bets and what challenges you can actually deal with. We have to be aware of what and how high the targets we set for the area deployments, so that we can meet the expectations. Territorial measures may not be the most appropriate means of improving the living conditions of individuals. Mr Bøhler asked what the government would focus on in the future and how the work on the area initiatives would be organised. He also asks how, as Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I will contribute to the long-term development of negotiations on the extension of the agreements. For me, long-termity does not necessarily mean continuing in the same track. The government will complete ongoing area operations. However, I am concerned that we are using the most appropriate instruments to address the challenges facing big cities. It's the results that count. That means we have to go through the efforts that have been made, and consider what has the best effect. Of course, I want to have dialogue with the cities. I have already had a meeting with the Municipality of Oslo on the Groruddals bet, and we have planned a new meeting closer to summer. The representative, Mr Bøhler, also raised the question of a better coverage of regional activities in the context of the State budgets. I think that's a good input that we're going to take with us. Because I fully agree that the Stortinget will have a good basis for assessing its objectives, results and impact, it is important that it is a more comprehensive reference and not too widespread. I will take that with me in the further work. Today's area interventions are characterised by much earmarked grants selected by the country. The grant shall not be granted on the basis of objective and neutral criteria. It can therefore be criticised for being socially unfair to citizens who are not subject to a territorial effort but who may have both poorer living conditions and better proposals for action. We are in the process of renewing, simplifying and improving public administration. Whether area bets are to be designed in exactly the same way as they are today, or whether they are to be changed, we need to look at them more closely. The question is what role the state will play in the future. The question is not whether the State should play a role, but what role the State should play. I am concerned about having a dialogue with the Stortinget and with the big cities about that. Because in dealing with regional and urban challenges, we must constantly be concerned with results for the individual, for the city and for the cities, and then we must have an open mind in terms of the means we use.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1375	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and with the answer, we are in the process of discussing what I had hoped for. It is true that it is about a broader welfare policy to change and improve the development of these areas. The interaction between Groruddalssättingen and Oslo Sør betingen has been an engine for creating – that it has been committed to schools, that the educational system has developed its reinforced structures in schools in these areas, that it is now beginning to look at the concentration of municipal housing, where residents with social problems are concentrated in some of the same areas as we have accumulated many other social indicators, and that housing planning on the part of the planetates and rates on another type of composition of housing in the future in these areas. We depend on that kind of action. The same applies to public transport. We've seen upgrading stations along the t-track line that have been significant now in the Grorud Valley. Because there are bets, wider welfare measures of that kind are given priority in these areas, for example: upgrading the Haugenstua station from the NSB side. What I would like to say to the Council of State is that I fully agree that it is about broader welfare policies in these areas, but the fact that they have had these efforts has been a way of putting the areas on the agenda, and it triggers much more from other agencies and businesses. I mean, for example. that efforts should be stepped up with regard to Nav and those outside the labour market. A problem that I want to address further in terms of the content of the bets – a challenge we have – is a stronger effort in language. We have 20 hours of free core time in the kindergartens, which I was in the city. There we need more long-termity. I think we need to extend the scheme to apply from three years. There are four- and five-year-olds today. We have the same challenge in school. In schools, as in the past when it came to kindergartens, there are too few participating in the activity school, where a good deal of important things happen in terms of physical activity, in terms of homework, in terms of cultural schools, etc. There is an experiment at Mortensrud School in Søndre Nordstrand city, where you have a corresponding free core time, free part-time activity school. This has led to over 90 pst. Participation in the activity school there, while participation in some of the problem areas I am talking about is between 20 and 30 p.m. The participation is over 90 pst. west of Oslo. I would like to say that the proposal that the Left raised in the budget process last autumn that we should have an activity school scheme similar to the one that we have for kindergarten – with free core time – in the same areas is a proposal that we should move on to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1388	Let me just first establish that we agree on the value of the fact that the differences in our cities are not too big. It's an important value to avoid too many differences in living conditions. In other cities in Europe – we’re not going further than to Sweden – we see what challenges it can create if the differences become too big. So that's an important starting point. I am concerned that we need to discuss role-sharing – what is the role of the state, and what are the tasks and responsibilities of the municipality? I am not questioning whether the state should have a role, but I am inviting a debate on the role of the state in the big cities – what should be the responsibility of the municipality, the responsibility of the city, and what role the state can play in strengthening the efforts made locally. I think that the representative Bøhler focused on two important areas: housing planning and how we can help particularly more vulnerable groups into the housing market. I believe that one reason we have done relatively well in Norway is that very many people own their own home. Having one’s own home creates security, and it helps to take better care of both the homes and the areas. But housing policy, the social housing policy, is an important part of the effort in the big cities. The second important area in which the representative Bøhler focused was language. I fully agree with the importance of strengthening language skills, both before the children begin school, and when they go to school. We're concerned about how we can enhance language skills, because we know that being a linguist is the key to success in other schools and, not least, in society. We now have some time to discuss how to proceed. The Groruddal bet is valid until 2016. I am concerned that we are now spending time evaluating the bet that has been: what results, what doesn't work as well, and how can we move on to ensure good living conditions in our cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1401	I also want to start by giving honor to the representative of Bohemia to address an important topic. It is crucial for Norway's future that we as a society succeed in integrating all people, regardless of the origin and postal code of the municipality or city. I am also in favour of the area bet that has been made in, for example. The Groruddalen, in particular because the Oslo City Council has contributed to the development of local and inclusive cooperation with residents, businesses and public institutions. Local involvement is essential for success. Although I'm positive with the area bet, it's not that the next ten years are automatically going to be a repetition of the first ten years. We have to conclude after we have evaluated and learned useful lessons. But let me stress that the most important measures are those of the municipality, which in this case is the Oslo City Council, working through its general policy for the city every single day, by creating good schools, good living environments, a good collective offer, jobs, security and a good welfare offer. This creates local pride, belonging and identity. It will also have to apply to other municipalities. It's enough now that we're getting closer to this axis, that I unfortunately sometimes experience politicians from the left-hand side – I don't necessarily talk about the representative Bohemia – often get in the wrong direction. Last year’s campaign organised ‘Richingsafari’. At regular intervals, it was suggested that the eastern border children be busied around the city, while some use cumbersome words such as ‘getto’, ‘the divided city’ and ‘segregation’ to describe the environment on the eastern edge. If you were to create a project of the type «Visit the East Edge», I don't think anyone from the left would have got a job as a market manager there. The left side has too low ambitions on behalf of the residents and sends signals that one must have a bold wallet and an expensive home to succeed. We have to facilitate people to realize their dreams and their potential where they live. ‘Social mobility’ may be a better word for a ‘class journey’ in that sense. Let me give you a few examples: a small immigrant family realizes the home dream by buying rowhouses at Bøler, a father at Stovner who himself dreamed of work, has a daughter who has a career, a mother from Bjørndal who herself cannot read and write, has a son who takes a letter, a single mother on the Tøen who works as an assistant nurse, dreams of starting his auxiliary care business. This is what these people do, even though they live on the east side, even though they don't necessarily have the fattest wallet. Geography, size, and school circles have nothing to say to these people, because they're being helped to exploit their potential. Let me also give you some examples from the second part of the scale. If you are a drug addict at the Causes, the problem is not that you live at the Causes, but that you are a drug addict. Then you deserve to be met with a warm hand and a good treatment offer. If you live on the other side of town, and you're one of the young people who's looking for the drug environment at Holmenkollen at home-alone parties, you don't have a riching problem; you still have a drug problem. Also, you need to be met with a warm hand and a good treatment offer. What do these examples show? Well, Oslo is not a divided city, as the left-hand side often says and will repeat against the local elections, but a diverse city. We're a city with 15 cities, 600,000 inhabitants, all of which have their local variations and their personal goals they're going to achieve. Politicians cannot and should not decide where to live, but we can ensure that it is attractive to live throughout the municipality and that the service provision is equal. We do this by creating Norway's best schools, good living environments, a good collective offer, jobs, security and a good welfare offer. The cube of the professional arena, several take-offs on the t-course, schools betting on having visible results and testing of the students, is not part of the Groruddals bet; it is part of the initiative the Right Town Council in Oslo has wanted to make as a political choice. I believe that no matter which side of the city you live in, no matter which municipality you live in, you have a claim on Norway's best school, you have a claim that people will work for you to have a safe job and a safe place to live. That is what I think is area action, and that is what it should be about. I want to finish where I started, by giving tribute to the representative of Bohemia for having taken up this debate. I hope for a constructive tone from the left in this debate ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1427	First, I want to give tribute to the representative of Bohemia to address an important interpellation. He went through many of the challenges that I think Oslo and the Capital Region are facing. I also think it's being drawn a good picture of Oslo's growth. Right now, one classroom is being built this week, and it's clear that it's hard to keep up with the challenges we're facing. When we know that many municipalities are struggling for decades to clean up schools, I think there are a lot of local governments that have become anxious when they have the message that it is being built so much, and given the rate of growth in Oslo right now. Oslo is a place where many nations – and many challenges – accumulate. We have e.g. drug and health challenges. We see that very many of them with drug problems all around the country end up in Oslo, and that the helper in Oslo must be built up. A lot of them don't have a residence address in Oslo, and a lot of them experience – I've heard a lot of stories myself – the challenges gathered in this field, which hurt. Another thing that we in the Left have been concerned about is that very much of the innovation actually happens in a region without very much of the instrument for this innovation being put at the disposal of the living business. As a former local politician in a small thunderstorm municipality and as a former county representative, I have to say that these are two different worlds, two completely different worlds, dealing with the state. I think it is important that the representative, Mr Bøhler, deals with core time. I would also like to refer to the proposal we had in connection with our alternative budget before Christmas. I think looking at both language and social skills is an important step forward to understand the whole society we live in. A split layer between the country and the municipality is important in the future. Many of the urban areas pointed to by the representative, Mr Bøhler, have great influence, not only from other countries, but not least from other regions of our own. I myself have had the pleasure of being in Søndre Nordstrand several times, where I have visited people with whom I have grown up in Trondelag, and who have moved there in adulthood. I share Bøhler's thoughts about the investment in the outdoor areas that have been completed, which has been very positive. It makes sense to continue the arrangements that the interpellant calls for, but it is also important to look at the role of the House Bank, which was also discussed by the Council of State. It is important that area interventions are well anchored in order to achieve the best results. I fully agree with what the Council of State says in conclusion, that these are the results that count, and then we also have to look at this completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1444	For SV, the area investments that we have carried out are very important. It's about the state being involved in the fissure layer that it's both to smooth out the differences that we've been talking about before here, and also to help address both the social problems that exist and the development problems that may exist in some parts of the city – not just in Oslo, but in several other cities. SV can say clearly today that we want to extend these investments, because we believe it is absolutely necessary to do so – to ensure that additional funds are provided from the state to bets such as the cities and municipalities, of course, the sea should be involved and decide what should be included. I think that's important to say, because I'm a little worried about the posts both from the government council and from the government and position parties, where I hear that you're very uncertain about whether this should be continued. The changes in the local economy signaled by the government – that is, to distort the local economy so that municipalities with high incomes will retain more of their incomes, while municipalities with small incomes will have less to distribute them – will, of course, strengthen some of the municipalities receiving regional initiatives. It's perfectly clear. But then it is within the amount that is in any case allocated to the local government sector, while we now have a distribution of income between the municipalities that is based on the fact that the differences in income are not going to be large, that they need to be reduced. The Council of State said in its statement that excessive economic differences should be avoided. I could ask him, what is it? What is too big a economic difference — between people, between towns, between municipalities, for example.? With the system now in place, there is a main objective: to smooth out the incomes for which all municipalities will have good communities, good schools, good kindergartens and good care for the elderly. So you've put these area bets on the table. It is incredibly important to keep the area operations visible so that the state does not discharge its co-responsibility to participate in and finance such schemes. That is why I am concerned when the Council of State says that he will complete the ongoing efforts, but is completely unclear whether to continue with more. Because it's necessary to do, and it's been wagered in many ways. You can just take a walk around this town to see how successful these area bets actually are. I just want to mention two measures that I think should be further strengthened. One is the activity school, which has been mentioned here. It should be free for more people in areas where there are few children attending the activity school. It's because we know how incredibly important it is to children who are going to do well in school, and who are going to work well in their communities together with their comrades. Activity school is a very good step, and we should make sure that those who need it the most can go there. Then it must be free. The second is free core time in kindergartens. We know how important it is to go to kindergarten if you're going to learn Norwegian and don't have it as a native language. Anyone who has worked with children knows that children learn language best when they are young – yes, maybe they learn the most before they start talking, even. That's when language learning comes. Now that we have free core time for the four- and five-year-olds, it's good, but there's a need to expand the core time in the kindergarten for smaller children, so that they get into a Norwegian-speaking environment earlier, so that they can learn their native language at home and Norwegian well in kindergarten and get language learning automated in a better way than they get if they later get into such an environment. Finally, it is important to be able to maintain high quality in kindergartens, to ensure that they have trained pre-school teachers, trained staff, who also speak Norwegian well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1459	Thanks to the interpellant for travelling what is a very important matter. Sometimes you have the opportunity to speak for your sick mother, and I intend to take advantage of that opportunity today. State Council Sanner referred to the cooperation between the state and the municipality of Drammen. For the time being, it has not come very far, and it is understandable, because the municipality of Drammen only joined the area operation this year. But there has been one meeting between the state and the municipality. A few of the departments in question were absent, but the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation was at least there. The matter is incidentally dealt with in the city council just today, but without the leadership of the state for the time being. I expect it to come. The councillor has recommended that a two-part set of measures with a focus on the activity, play and sport activities of the Drammen Mountain, and that one at the same time seek to strengthen the learning outcomes of the city, including: through health promotion measures involving both children, young people and their parents. Now Drammen Arbeiderparti wanted to draw the FAU at the school more strongly. It is currently voted down in the Presidency and it may well be in the City Council today, too, but I believe that that kind of parental cooperation is something that the State is going to place on, without asking the Council of State to or should be dealing with here today. But I'm going to assume that in the future, the ministry will also focus on parenting to achieve good results. So it was this thing with my sick mother. Then I would like to return to a question that was raised here in the budget debate, among other things. from the undersigned, and who was also commented on by Bohemia in his first post today, without any clear answer to it. It's about the amount of area bet in the Drammen. The drama is immigrant town number 2 in Norway. 25 pst. has immigrant background, and we have clear living conditions in the city. Mountain, where the migration tip is the highest, points out as an obvious candidate for the next area bet, and that is also where the municipality has chosen to bet. 70 pst. students have a migrant background in this part of the city. 40 pst. children have open child-restraint cases. There is a relatively high rate of leave in the city and a combination of problems such as leave, mental health and drug abuse. Schools have expressed their need for more competence. On the basis of these facts, the drama should probably be there a long time ago. We were very pleased when the Stoltenberg II government last summer signaled that it was now Drammen's turn, and it was set of 15 million. kr in the start-up year 2014. With the corresponding contribution from the municipality, everything was at the ready to get started quickly and well. Then we heard from the Right Party government in the context of the budgetary procedure this fall that it had had too little time to go very thoroughly into and put its mark on the budget, but that it was doing something – and then I would assume the most important thing. One of the things it got was to cut the new area bet in the Drammen by more than half. Of the 15 million. So kr, as the Stoltenberg II government suggested, it's just seven million. So let's add another cent. This I choose to interpret as a serious sign that the new government does not fully see the importance of area deployment in areas such as: Mountain in the Drammen. As I said during the budgetary procedure, I thought it was really bad done to Drammen, who had waited so long. There's little money in the big context, but it means a lot locally. The drama has a rapporteur from the Right, and he tried in local media to try out some partial excuses – without it being entirely credible, but that is the way he is obliged to do. I also said that I was particularly disappointed with the Christian People's Party and the Left who were involved in the extensive cut in the new area bet in the Drama. I wondered if it might be a mistake on their part and hoped that they could help fix this at the next crossroads. My question to the Council of State today is: When he says ‘complete ongoing area operations’, does it mean at the same level anyway, or is it possible that the amount of the Drammen can be increased as one starts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1476	I would like to thank you for the debate and also for the contribution of the Council of State. I think it was positive to hear that one will get a more collective mention of these efforts in the state budgets ahead, so that we can get a better treatment and clearer thinking about how to build them up in the future. I also hope that I will be able to see positive results from what the Council of State says. When he says he won't continue in the same track, necessarily, I'll interpret it so that you will continue, but you don't necessarily want to do the same thing. The last thing I agree with, that's something we get done in a way that's so good that there's no sense in going on doing the same thing. But I believe that the important thing for these areas where we are betting is that they should know that we will be there and will build up special efforts further, because these areas still have many of the challenges that lay there when we started, and because there are large areas, where quite extensive work is needed to move on. Then we have the issue that was raised, which was followed up in a fine way by both the Left and the SV in the debate now, that everyone has to afford to be there, especially in terms of language. Activity school costs between NOK 2 500 and NOK 3 000 in Oslo, and unfortunately there are many people around in the eastern districts who can't afford it and who can't afford it. A similar problem we solved with free core time in kindergartens, and it has given good results, which the government parties have also agreed to. We should think in the same way about Activity School, that everyone should be able to be there, including those who need it the most, because it is those who have the worst advice, who probably also have parents who are poor in Norwegian and who just need their children to be involved in homework and on the various offers offered by the activity school. We have the same problem of participation in sports and cultural schools, etc., where prices are high, for example. training fee in sports teams of NOK 3000 per child and quota, etc. on top of it. It makes too many people who don't participate, who like it. So we have to look at the whole way we support and create new measures to make sure that everyone can participate. One thing in the end that there is a need to clarify. When the state says that you want an internal east bet, while the Municipality of Oslo says you want a Tøen bet, how can you get a better connection between the state and the municipality about arealifts that also deal with Greenland, Fatherland, Lower Grünerløkka etc., as the state suggests, but as the Municipality of Oslo currently needs more clarification around?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1485	First to Lise Christoffersen's question about budget. That is the way it always is, that the budget is adopted in the autumn. If you look at the Groruddals bet, you'll see that government appropriations have fluctuated considerably from year to year. In particular, it has increased in election years, and then it has fallen the year after. If we look at 2008, it was 120 million. kr for Groruddalssatingen. In 2009, it was up to 131 million. And then it went down to 124 million. kr. In 2012, the year before the election, it was 123 million. NOK – all the way down to 123 – and then it blew up to 130 million. kr in the campaign year. I'm not going to say anything if this is random or not, but I'm going to use it as an illustration that the appropriations change from year to year. So to the representative Karin Andersen: I think it's nice that Karin Andersen talks nice about Oslo, but it can't be that everything that's positive in Oslo is due to the area bet, while everything that's negative comes from the City Council. You can sometimes get the impression. It is true that the Municipality of Oslo is making a great effort to raise the urban areas and to ensure that all the children in the city get a good school. It must be the fundamental. I also disagree with the representative, Karin Andersen, when she says that the goal of area betting is to make visible that the state is not running away from responsibility. No, the goal of the area effort must be good results, and that is good results this government is hunting. When I say that we want to evaluate today's area bet, it's just to get on the table what it's having effect. What's not working, and how are we going to go on? That must be the whole purpose of the process we are going into, not just to make it clear that the state is not running away from responsibility. No, we're going to be concerned with results. There will be many suggestions, good input, during this debate. What I am concerned about is that we must also have a role explanation of what is the responsibility of the state, and what is the responsibility of the city and the municipality. Then, of course, we are concerned about and interested in further dialogue with Oslo and the other cities to discuss how we can move forward, so that we can together achieve good results for our citizens in all parts of the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1497	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1503	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1733	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1743	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1921	The Christian People's Party has announced that they wish to vote against I, § 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1934	It shall be added to the other paragraphs of I and II, III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1944	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1954	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e1962	During the debate, Karin Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 4 July 2003 80 on the introduction scheme and Norwegian training for newly arrived immigrants are amended as follows: points (c) and (d) of the first paragraph of Section 2 are replaced by the following: [[Introduction Act]] Section 34 of the Foreign Affairs Act. For persons who, pending a documented identity, have a residence permit limited by § 38, fifth subparagraph, points (a) or (b), the right and obligation shall apply after the initial renewal of the permit, (d) a residence permit as family members of persons referred to in points (a), (b) and (c), cf. Chapter 6 of the Act on Foreign Affairs. For the purposes of this provision, it is a condition that persons referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) have not been resident in a municipality for more than five years before the application for family reunification is made; or Paragraph 17 of the first and second subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: the right and obligation to participate in free training in Norwegian and community knowledge for a total of 600 hours shall apply to aliens aged between 16 and 55 who have received (a) residence permits under the Foreign Affairs Act which form the basis for permanent residence permits; (b) collective protection in mass refugee situations under Section 34 of the Foreign Affairs Act; or (c) residence permits limited under Section 38, fifth paragraph, points (a) or (b) pending documented identity. The new third sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 17 shall be replaced by the following: the right or the obligation to participate after the first to third subparagraphs shall take effect upon the granting of the initial residence permit under the Foreign Act or from the arrival in the State of aliens who have been granted such a permit before entry. In the case of persons covered by point (b) of the first subparagraph, the right and obligation to participate shall apply from the date of his residence in the municipality under a specific agreement between the foreign authorities and the local authority. For persons covered by point (c) of the first subparagraph, the right and the obligation to participate from the initial renewal of the authorisation shall apply. The current third to the fifth sentence is going to be the fourth to the sixth sentence. II The law shall enter into force from the time of the king's decision." Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e2044	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-03-18.ana.ud556e2212	Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
