ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e57	The representatives Else-May Botten, Ola Elvestuen, Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen and Per Sandberg, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From the Workers' Group there is an application to extend the convening of the meeting of the Deputy Representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, until 12 May, during the period from 6 May to 12 May. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From 12 May to 14 May to take part in the Nordic-Baltic Parliamentary President's meeting in Moldova, an application has been made by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives for the period from 12 May to 14 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, is called to meet on the 13th and 14th of May.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e102	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e120	First, on May 8th, the day of release and the day of the winter, I want to thank all the old and young veterans for all they have sacrificed, and all they have done for us all, on behalf of us who sit here in the Storting. Then go to the interpellation. Distribution is the key to a well-functioning society, and a society with little differences between people is a good one. There are many good reasons to make smaller differences between people. Some of them are social or practical, other ethical or economic. Let me start with the most basic. If we are to have a civilised and humane society, it is to give everyone equal access to health care, education and a social security network a premise. A society where not everyone has equal access to these goods is by definition a society with poor distribution. However, free schooling, hospital treatment, health care and unemployment benefits are not self-inflicted. It must be created and maintained, and we do so with the policy. There is a positive relationship between social capital and equality in a society. Conversely, we know that if the social differences increase, the social capital is undermined, and it is not difficult to imagine the causal relationship. We feel that society is fair – giving everyone equal opportunities, sharing the privileges of society – we are also more likely to think well about those around us in society. If we experience ourselves that we get a lot of society, we will also be more willing to give to society by paying taxes, being law-abiding, still at work and doing volunteer work. British researchers Wilkinson and Pickett have compiled statistics from 23 countries and found that inequality has the following effects: lower life expectancy, poorer reading skills, higher infant mortality, more crime and poorer health. I think I have all Norwegian politicians with me when I say that none of us are for these effects, but when we talk about increasing distribution, it is often stigmatized as envy by some politicians in the Progress Party and the Right. Distribution isn't just good for people. That's also good for the economy. If too much of the income is collected in a few families, the economy will gradually be slowed down. A normal employee uses almost all of his monthly salary. We pay on the mortgage, we pay the nursery and the electricity bill, we buy food, clothes and maybe new gravel for the driveway. If we get a salary increase, we spend more money – mainly locally. This is how we reinvest our income in society and contribute to creating turnover, economic growth and new jobs in our own community. For the super rich, it's different. They have so much income and wealth that they only have the ability to use a small part of what they serve, and external wage and wealth growth for this group does not automatically produce the same effect. Instead of reinvesting everything they earn in the national economy, as the employees mainly do, more money is put into international stock markets or other values that do not necessarily contribute to the growth of the local economy. If a large proportion of the values in a country are collected on too few hands, economic growth is likely to stop and the economy is eventually drained for money. This is far from our Norwegian reality now, but not from the American. Skew distribution also changes the motivation of people to work. There is a widespread perception that it is worth working, and that those who work a lot should be able to be left with more than those who work a little. The French economist Thomas Piketty shows with his work that capital income increases more than income in most countries. If this trend continues over many years, differences will increase dramatically. Gradually, it will have less and less to say how much you work and how good your performance is. What really determines is how much you inherit. In the United States, the economic consequences of bias are now really beginning to be realized. Here, income inequality has grown dramatically, and President Obama has called income inequality the defining challenge of our time. According to Piketty, the inequalities in wage income in the United States are probably higher than in any other society at any time in history anywhere in the world. While the richest percentage of Americans in the period 1979 to 2007, revenues increased by 275 pst., the middle class increased by 60 pst. by the population — income of around 40 pst. during the same period. There have been no major differences between what the wealthiest and what the poor serve in the United States since the 1920s. Today the richest percent makes 24 pst. of all income in the United States. In the United States, you try to grab hold of the differences to make them smaller. President Obama has set up a working group chaired by Vice President Joe Biden just to work on this. The trend is the same in OECD countries: inequalities are increasing. It started with English-speaking countries in the 1970s and 1980s. In the 2000s, we have seen the same trend in Germany, Denmark, Sweden and other Nordic countries. The assistance organisation Oxfam has strikingly illustrated the division of wealth in the world. The 85 richest people in the world have the same wealth as the poorest half of the population combined. As politicians, we own the most important tools to prevent big differences between people. We are the ones who decide the tax, pay, school, hospitals and pensions arrangements. That's why I'm concerned when today's government parties, the Right Party and the Advance Party, don't just seem to care that there's going to be greater differences, but also actively, through their grips, go in to make the differences bigger. I would like to mention three areas of government policy. First, tax and the measure of complete elimination of taxes on wealth. The evening item showed a while ago a production of the taxes of Norwegian billionaires. It showed above all that Norwegian billionaires almost pay no taxes other than the property tax. The property tax stood for a total of 70 pst. the tax paid by the billionaires surveyed. In addition, we were informed that all twelve billionaires who were examined paid far less than 1.1 pst. in taxes on wealth. Professor Jarle Møen of the Norwegian School of Commerce stated that the debate should focus on how we can improve the wealth tax, not on removing it. How can we make it more focused? How can we make it more accurate? In the Evening Post, it was also found that if a tax on wealth is removed, almost 12 000 taxpayers in Snarey, Nesøya and Jar will receive as much tax relief as 211,000 taxpayers in 141 Norwegian municipalities. Removing property taxes uncritically, and not going in to make it more targeted and better, gives enormous geographical and social bias. Another effective measure to increase differences in Norway is to stimulate more private schools. In a more diverse society, it is more important than ever that we have a common school, a common arena where we meet across the board. There is no objective for more Christian children to go to Christian schools, for more Somali children to go to Somali schools, for sports-interested families to have their children in sports schools, etc., etc. How will society evolve if we now, at a time when there is more diversity, also get more private schools? A third step for major differences is the government's announced changes in the funding of municipalities. The centre party believes that one should have an equivalent school, welfare and service offer wherever one lives in the country. Because the municipalities have very different tax bases, we believe that the state should redeploy funds from the tax-rich municipalities to the tax-weak. The changes announced in the Government Platform on how to finance municipalities will make greater distinctions between municipalities, so that municipalities with a high average income get more money, while municipalities with a low average income get less. This is classic right-wing policy of the worst brand. We that have a lot of things already, we're going to get more, those that have a little bit less, we're going to do less. It'll reinforce the differences we're already seeing. The parents in Bærum who have high incomes will be able to get better schools for their children than the parents in Eidskog who have low incomes. We believe that we should balance the differences, so that if a person lives in Eidskog or in Bærum, the opportunities for a good school and for good local welfare should be the same, so that we can build up divisions, not build them up. As I have seen in my article, I consider increased economic differences to be a problem. So my question is, does the Council of State consider increasing economic differences as a problem? And if so, what will the Council of State do to counteract increasing economic differences in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e152	Let me also take the opportunity to congratulate you on the day of release and veto. Many of us can extend a greeting in a day like this. So for the interpellation. Compared to other countries, there are small income differences in Norway. Even before account is taken of the redistribution via the tax system and public transfers, we have a more even distribution of income than most other countries. The representative Battle Violence Vedum refers to the United States and evolution there. However, Norway is in a different situation from the United States and many other countries. We have managed well through the financial crisis, we have a high level of employment, and we have low unemployment. While many countries are struggling with increasing income inequality, income inequality in Norway is roughly as it was in the late 1990s. The latest survey of the European Statistical Agency Eurostat showed that Norway has the lowest income inequality in European countries. It would have been wrong to claim that we have challenges with increasing inequality in Norway. A well-functioning market economy with a large proportion of the population at work, a safe society and an efficient tax system are some of the main reasons why most of us are doing well in this country. The government attaches great importance to maintaining and continuing these features. Although increasing inequality in itself is not a major concern in Norway, there are still too many who fall outside. On the world scale, we're getting poor, but the government has a strong commitment to improving the situation of those who stand outside important social arenas because of poor economy or poor living conditions. We know a lot about which groups are struggling economically in Norway, and several measures are needed to improve their situation. Therefore, the government will improve the integration of those who will be here, we will increase the skills of teachers, we will strengthen the provision of drug care and the provision of people with mental disorders, and we will give children who grow up in poor families more equal opportunities. At the same time, we know that the most important measure to combat low incomes is an open and well-functioning working life with room for all. That everyone has good incentives to work, and that their work is demanded, yes, it prevents poverty and is the most important thing for the well-being of the individual. High levels of professional participation are essential to maintain the level of well-being of today. It is therefore particularly important to make it easier for vulnerable groups to enter the labour market. We know that people with disabilities may have challenges to get into work, or to stay in work over time, and we know that very many people go too long on sick leave because they are in a state of health waiting for treatment. Values to be shared do not come of their own. They must be created first. The representative, Battle Violence Vedum, points to the United States. But you don't have to go as far as the United States to find countries that are struggling with persistently high levels of unemployment and low economic growth. Such conditions increase differences. These countries show how important it is to have a robust economy with high employment and good growth capacity. We rely on the efficient use of resources and create values to ensure the basis for growth and well-being. The government therefore wants to stimulate work, investment and saving. We started this work. In 2014, the tax on profits in companies and labour income was reduced. We reduced the property tax, and we removed the inheritance tax. The changes make it more profitable to save, invest and work and facilitate an increased proportion of Norwegian capital in Norwegian business. This is good for the Norwegian economy, and the tax administrations allow individuals to keep a little more of what they have created. An economy where investing and working pays off better facilitates value creation, high employment and low income inequality. The main factor explaining income inequality is the differences in market income. Some such differences in income are necessary for the good use of the resources of society. Differences in wages and salaries contribute to the education of people in occupations where profitability and demand are greatest, and to a flexible labour market with low unemployment. Different returns on capital make people and companies invest where resources waste the most. However, it may be right to mitigate some of the differences created by the markets, and we have several instruments that redistribute market income. Here the tax system is central. In 2014, someone who has 1 million will. kr in employee income, pay more than 10 times more in income tax than one who earns NOK 200000. But even more important for income balancing is what taxes finance. Social security benefits, public transfers and publicly funded services such as kindergartens, schools, health care and elderly care balance income and living conditions to a much greater extent than the tax system. But I think we should raise our eyes and look at long-term distribution and well-being. Distribution policy is about more than redistributing earned income through the tax system and transfers. It is primarily because of a well-functioning economy that Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in for all income groups – not because we have relocated ourselves to wealth. Distribution policy is probably so much about facilitating the generation of income. A business that goes well will invest and demand labour. When discussing distribution, we cannot focus unilaterally on changes in one-year tax tables for relatively small groups of either high or very low incomes, as the opposition tends to do. Through growth-enhancing tax reliefs, real priorities for public budgets, and increasing knowledge and improving infrastructure, governments will contribute to increased growth and better well-being. Already in a few months, we have carried out several simplifications for business and the tax system. We have removed unnecessary regulation and reporting, and we have reduced the level of taxation. We have set up a Commission to advise on measures that can increase productivity growth. The government also wants to strengthen labour incentives in the tax and social security systems, so that more work is paid. We're going to look critically at how the government spends the money, and we're going to add up to simplify, renew and improve the public sector. All these are measures that will improve resource use in Norway and will yield long-term returns. In that case, value creation is increasing – for the benefit of all income groups. We are not alone in claiming that good resource use is crucial to well-being. In the OECD country report on Norway at the beginning of March, the organisation stresses the importance of the efficient use of public expenditure, the reduction of taxes in order to improve the efficiency of the economy and the strengthening of labour incentives for those receiving public transfers. The OECD also supports reductions in the taxes on wealth, because it will strengthen Norwegian entrepreneurship. Here's the OECD and the government in line. The government wants greater well-being for everyone. In the longer term, it is our ability to exploit the resources that determine how well-being will develop. A robust and diverse private sector and an efficient public sector are prerequisites for future value creation. The short-term re-allocation of the tax system must be balanced against the efficient use of resources and good framework conditions for business activities. Administrations should not direct detail towards an imaginary, non-profit distribution of income. Increasing redistribution through the tax system is not the best way to pursue distribution policies. The most important thing for the government is to facilitate growth and prosperity development, which will help reduce poverty. The government wants a healthy economy where it pays to save, invest and work. That is also a good policy for distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e186	The Progress Party and the Center Party probably have a slightly different view of how important it is to have a good distribution in a society. There are three main elements, which I was inside in my post. One is redistribution through tax. We've said over time that there are challenges to the wealth tax, but we've seen that a clean removal of it will give very large, negative distribution effects. The changes made by the government in its tax system before Christmas illustrated the challenge with the grips the Progress Party wants to take. Average tax pressure for a person with an income of more than 2 million. kr – according to the department’s own figures – went down by approx. 40000 kroner, while the tax burden on a person with an income from work of 300000 to 350000 kroner went down by 200 kroner. We're convinced that it means more to the working capacity of a society if we can give tax relief at the bottom. It will also have the greatest impact on creating local and regional ring-effects, if one stimulates low-income groups to be left with more when they work more. Question no. one – and challenge No. one – is: is there such a profile the Progress Party still wants to have when they are going to give tax relief, that it is the ones that have the most, that will get the most, and that those who have little, are really going to get nothing? The other thing, which I think is absolutely fundamental, is using the school as the arena to smooth out the differences. How do the Progress Party and the government assess the distributional if we get more and more private schools, where different groups have to have their children in different classes and schools? Will it not reinforce differences, intensify conflicts and reinforce inequalities? Isn't it now more important than ever to have a strong common school, where we meet across religion and ethnicity? The third – which I was also in the interpellation – is the geographical dimension. In different parts of Norway, there is a very uneven distribution of income and wealth distribution. In the government's alternative budget, all regional policy instruments were systematically cut. Both in fisheries, in agriculture and in regional development, cuts were made to counteract the differences. Now the government has announced a dramatic jump in the employer’s fee to many district companies. Jan Tore Sanner guaranteed on live TV that the government would provide compensation – a crown for the crown – for the areas that lost a differentiated employer's fee. Is it a promise that Siv Jensen can confirm, or was it Truer's own promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e197	As I said in my first post, government doesn't just reduce the total tax burden. We also make changes to tax legislation to close holes and to help make the system even more effective than it is today. That's smart. That's right. This will help us to get a more efficient tax system that is easier to manage over time, and we will get more out of each of the heads that we actually demand. I also said in my post that it's pointless to look at tax tables, where you extract high-income groups and low-income groups and have it as a scale. Even the example of Battle Violence shows that everyone has found relief. This means that all income groups in Norway have been better placed by the government, simply because they retain more of their own income. But it is also about the fact that, in the relief given in the 2014 state budget, we were committed to providing relief at the bottom, just to stimulate them with low and medium incomes and, not least, to stimulate people to stand longer in work. To school: This government is primarily concerned with improving the quality of school. We've taken over a school that ranks on average on all the measurements. We want to raise it -- we want to make it easier for our children to get the best possible education that will equip them for the future. It should be the ambitions of school policy. Then we need to strengthen the real subjects. Then we have to make sure that teachers get better continuing education. This is what the government is doing. Violence Vedum was injured to call it the government's alternative budget. No, it was the budget adopted by the Stortinget last harvest, a budget in which we made significant changes to strengthen the framework conditions for Norwegian business. We're going to keep doing that. Then it is a short cut when Battle violence Vedum claims that the government wants to make changes to the differentiated employer's fee. First of all, it is a challenge that we inherited from the government of Battle Violence Vedum himself. Secondly, there is an area in which we work intensively towards the EU, in order to practice as much harm reduction as possible. How that arrangement is going to be, we'll get back to you in the context of the revised budget. What the government has said is that to the extent that we are faced with a need from ESA to make changes to the differentiated employer’s fee, it should be compensated in a way that benefits the countries concerned. We're now working on that. I thought that the Center Party and Battle Forced Vedum would likewise be concerned that the changes the government is presenting are accurate and good for the parts of the country that are being affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e210	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for giving the Storting the opportunity to discuss on that slightly superior plane and reflect a little on the long-term consequences of the policy that one is pursuing. A historical perspective shows that the differences in Norway gradually decreased after the Second World War. Specially, we got a big middle class. Internationally, as the interpellant points out, this trend has been reversed for the longest time, and if developments continue as at present, there is reason to fear that differences will also increase here at home for years to come. Globalisation, and particularly the enlargement of the EU to the east in 2004, have led to increased pressures on our Norwegian working life model. It may be the main challenge of increasing globalisation, that even if countries are raised out of poverty and the differences between countries are reduced, we will have more economic inequalities within countries. Immigration into work is very good. It gives us labour, greater possibilities to build roads, to run schools and hospitals. Globalisation also leads to jobs that were previously carried out by professionals here in Norway, either disappearing and moving to poor countries, or to wages and employment being under pressure from us. Many workers in Norway come from countries where the pay level may be one fifth or one tenth of Norwegian. The advantage for those who come is that they get a higher salary. The advantage for us is that we have completed the necessary tasks. The disadvantage is that there are some places where pressure on wages is needed, and this leads to a risk of social dumping. Fortunately, Norwegian working life in general is serious and tidy. Most people have work contracts, they have fixed additions, they have decent pay, and we have a good working environment. At the same time, the working life model we have in Norway, with confidence in the workplace, responsible trade unions and their tripartite cooperation with the government, is one of the pillars of social governance and our whole social model. Central paychecks provide the basis for managing the Norwegian economy, and it has contributed to far less pay differentials than in countries with which we can compare. I hope the Minister of Finance agrees with me that this model of working life must be defended, that we can have a relatively large amount of labour immigration because we have strong trade unions and a regulated working life – but only then. If the Siv Jensen Council believes that increasing differences is a problem that she wants to fight against, then I hope that we can also be a few that action plans against social dumping, publicising collective bargaining agreements and transparency are not an obstacle. The fact that we have strong trade unions is what makes us in Norway have a reasonable distribution between wage earners and the income of the owners of the company, and that we have had it for a long time. Both in terms of unemployment and weak pay and working conditions, developments in Norwegian working life are somewhat uncertain. And with the deep crisis in Southern European labour markets, such as Greece, Portugal and Spain, and the large pay gap at home in relation to countries such as Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Romania, are much to the point that the challenges of labour migration will not continue. They are likely to increase, and at the same time adopt new shapes. Social dumping tends to spread like rings in the water, unless a powerful instrument is put in place. Without more measures, we risk that serious companies are weakened and tempted to be unprofessional because they lose contracts to unprofessional operators. Ordinary Norwegian workers may thus lose their job or get more precarious or poorer conditions. Working life's organisations may lose influence, lose members and get into poor circles. Social dumping is a social problem that will ultimately rock through the foundation of our working life model, as a contributing factor to small wage differences. That's why I hope the Minister of Finance will take this seriously as a social problem. The problems in the eastern and southern European labour markets raise challenges, including in Norway. If unfair working conditions are widened in the Norwegian labour market, both the normal workers in Norway and the serious enterprises will be affected. The work to ensure a well-regulated and decent Norwegian working life must therefore be given greater priority in the future. If not, the Norwegian model of society, with the unique combination of high trust, even living conditions, good distribution and economic growth, can also be undermined. I don't think there's room for sleepiness in this work, and the time to have a wait-and-see-hold for the longest is over. I hope the Council of State in this room can establish that the government will be busy reducing the differences in Norway, and prove it by taking action to combat the crime of working life. In this way, the government can show that it understands the relationship between small differences and a well-organised and decent working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e238	Fortunately, most people in Norway have a safe and good standard of living. We're proud that we have an equality society, a society characterized by small differences between people, and where the income differences are also small. Of countries it's natural to compare with, we're probably the best in the class here as well. We want to have it this way, I think there's a broad cross-political consensus about that. This does not mean, of course, that no one in Norway is serving more than others, but in general we have had a broad wealth development in our country, which we who have lived for a while have been able to register and participate in. The positive economic development that we have had in Norway since World War II has led to a significant development of wealth. Some income differences will always be, but fortunately they are small. Some have been good at creating and making more money for different reasons than others. This is nothing wrong in itself. Then we probably have to admit that someone can't contribute as much as others, and that someone else falls outside, as it's called. Our responsibility is that this last group will be as small as possible, and that society will have to take responsibility for them. The fact that it is approx. 600,000 people are out of work, that the number of young people has increased, and that high school dropouts are also growing, are not good numbers, and that's not a development we've earned. There is a distinction between those who have a safe and good income-bearing job and those who do not. Fortunately, we have low unemployment in Norway. The more people at work, the lower the income difference. Therefore, policy must be such that people are stimulated to work, and thus more and more jobs are created. Then, for example, we have to. have a tax system against enterprises that are just leading to increased investment and stimulation. We also need a policy that will speed up the return of sick people to work, so that they are at least insured, but rather have a good income. In order to achieve this, we need, among other things, to: avoid health cows and unnecessary waiting lists and waiting times for de minimis operations. A safe workplace is important for the individual. Work gives social belongings, economic autonomy and thus freedom to people and families. A strong Norwegian business life gives Norway more legs to stand on in the future, and therefore safe jobs and a diverse business life are the very foundation of our current and future welfare society. Knowledge is also an important factor. Its more educated — or more precisely increased knowledge — the more likely to be involved in the working and professional life. We also need to focus on how we operate the public sector. Not only should it be effective, it should also be responsive and helpful, to say it that way. People who have come into a difficult situation will meet with respect, not only by public offices, but also by those of us who are doing well. I have said this before: Right-wing wants a society shaped so that individuals feel welcome in the community that society is, and that individuals must be able to gain freedom and trust within the framework of society, trust in making decisions themselves, have their own situation. But in this, there is also an obligation for individuals to participate in society and to help those who need help in different forms get it. That's when we get the good community where the inequalities are few and people feel safe for themselves and theirs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e251	Norway is a country with small income differences, small economic differences, and we should be proud and happy about that. Nevertheless, I believe there are other issues that may be more important in a society than the income difference and the economic difference. In the United States, they have built up considerable economic differences, especially in recent years, and there may be a long-term problem for the United States, at least if the differences increase further. I don't think it's primarily the difference between the wealthiest in the United States that's the biggest problem, but I think it's the development – or the lack of development – of the poorest that's the biggest challenge. So the biggest problem in the United States is that there are more people who become poor and fall below the poverty line. This can be a major challenge in the long term. China has had strong economic growth in the last 20 years, which has also contributed to greater inequality, greater economic differences. It's mainly because you've got some super-rich people in China, who you haven't had before. At the same time, economic growth in China has contributed to hundreds of millions of Chinese people coming out of bottomless poverty, so they don't have to worry about whether they have food on the table the next day. It's a joyous development that economic growth has contributed to. In North Korea, however, there has been no economic growth. There's a small difference, at least if you believe in the country's own statistics, and it's probably also true. At least about a good family Kim Jong-un and his friends outside, probably the differences are small in North Korea. That doesn't mean, of course, that it's better to live in North Korea than to live in China. On the contrary, and I believe that most people are with me. Then, of course, the question is: What is the most important thing — to prevent the rich from becoming richer, or to ensure that the poor become richer, and that they come out of poverty traps? The property tax is a peculiar tax in Norway. It provides a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian companies. Here it is the Norwegian ownership that determines whether or not a property tax is paid. One example is two companies located next to each other — one has Norwegian owners and the other has foreign owners. Both have an equation value of 1 billion. kr. That means that the company that has Norwegian owners has to pay $10 million. taxes on wealth per year, while those who have foreign owners do not pay taxes on wealth. The removal of the property tax will therefore strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and secure Norwegian jobs. As a result, the removal of taxes on wealth can ensure that more people can participate in the labour market, thus avoiding falling out of the labour market and avoiding the poverty traps that it could entail. At the same time, the removal of wealth taxes can, of course, make some of the rich richer. I mean it's important that we have little differences in Norway. We should work to have that in the future, but I think it is more important that the poor become richer than that the rich become poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e266	It's a very interesting debate that Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum brings up in his interpellation. You can take the big picture, the big world, and then you can turn it into our own country. If you look at the big picture, there is no doubt that since the 1980s there have been less differences between rich and poor countries. It is an unparalleled view from the stand of the Christian People's Party. What's the reason for this? There is no doubt that much of this is due to freer world trade, and that large countries such as China, India and former Communist countries in many parts of the world have become market economy integrated into the global economy. It's a fact. The same globalisation can also create greater differences within the rich countries. For the workers of rich countries, competition for jobs will necessarily become harder and, therefore, in some countries, wages will be pushed downwards. If this gain in trade is not distributed among the countries, the workers can quickly become the losers, while the shareholders become the winners. Norway has been a major exception to the side effects I mentioned here, and that is much thanks to our business structure. Wages and salaries of Norwegian workers as a share of the value added have remained well up and running. But we also struggle with inclusion in the labour market. And as the Norwegian economy normalizes, to call it when the activity on the pedestal decreases etc., this will be a major challenge also in Norway, as we have seen trends in our neighbouring countries. Battle violence Vedum was within the French economist Thomas Piketty, who shows that the free market economy has an inherent tendency to create growing inequalities – precisely because people who are initially wealthy invest their funds and get returns on them, so that differences are reinforced. But that is also a point that the previous speaker, Mr Hageseter, made, how are we supposed to set up our instruments as Norwegian politicians? Is it primarily to take the rich in order to be able to look at the statistics that this has become evener, or is it to raise those who actually need it, and that is our main goal? We believe in economic cohesion, but it must not happen in such a way as to prevent the total growth of a country. So to one of the elements that Battle violence Vedum was in – school. It must be a crossroads of thought for a former government council in the red-green government to see that the school policy that has been administered to a great extent now – now we are making some changes, and that has been mutually agreed – has reproduced the social differences in what is hailed as the important common arena of public school. When you point to the few private schools we have in this country as the cause and a possible challenge in the future, I don't think you see the forest for just trees. In fact, private schools also contribute to the community. You can, for example: Visiting St. Sunniva school, you'll see. Tax is important, but I agree with the Minister of Finance that this is what we do with the total revenue, transfers via the State budget, which is important for cohesion in the Norwegian society. This is a very important debate. We're concerned that there's also a common value in the Norwegian community that the inequalities are not too big. I think that also has its own value. We're convinced that we're coming back to a lot of different individual elements in what's at stake in the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e285	A society based on solidarity and community is best. Yet not everyone is working for it. Charity is something other than fair distribution and solidarity. The Progress Party recently announced an attack on the sick pay system again at its national meeting, and the government puts competition above solidarity. A solidarity society must be actively chosen, and the fight against social dumping will only be won if we work hard together with the trade union movement against this. This means that this government must have the will to take at least as hard action as the previous government had in the field of solidarity, public service, as the representative Holen Bjørdal also stated in his statement here. In SV we very much agree with the Minister of Finance that the labour force is our foremost capital and our foremost instrument in our country. That's why we're too steady a job and a full job; it's vital for people to have a safe everyday life. In practical policy, the Minister and Government stand for more temporaryity and insecurity for workers. This debate has taken place strongly after the financial crisis, and well-known economists who have been quoted here before today, Stiglitz and Piketty, have documented how increasing differences across the world are a huge challenge, not just for those who are hanging again, but for the whole of society. In Norway, we now have a government that makes the opposite of what is needed to combat economic differences. Although wealth and heritage are becoming increasingly important in order to succeed in the distribution, the Right and Advance Party, with the support of the Left and Christian People's Party, want to eliminate the taxation of these. The inheritance fee was removed by the government almost overnight, but they can not argue that it is economically correct. When the government presented its new tax bill for 2014, we clearly saw that the big tax bill went to those who had the most from before. While those with ordinary income got a few hundred patches in tax-free and more expensive kindergartens, those who made over 2 million. NOK, on average NOK 39 000 in tax bills. It's not going to get past that it increases the differences. In the year of the Constitution, which we celebrate with discovery and hug, it is important that we look at the great historical lines, but also that we discuss what lays the basis for a living democracy. Great differences mean that a few have an economic power that most people can only dream of. This becomes self-enhancing. In the United States, it has recently been opened so that the ‘super-rich’ can sponsor the politicians they want with as much money as they want. For us in Norway, it is obvious that this has major negative consequences for democracy. In the United States, the ‘super-rich’ have helped to shift the debate so far that this is only a debate for those who are particularly interested. Those who struggle to make ends meet because their cleaning work was put at a competitive disadvantage in a progressive party municipality, or because the right-hand side of Norway may have an impact on the desire to cut social security and sick pay, will not have any surplus to participate in the democratic conversation. All the energy will agree to get food on the table. We can't have it like that. SV will have a society where the differences are combated by solidarity, not charities and crumbs from the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e304	First to Hans Olav Syversen: I'm one of those in the hall here who's been to Christian private school, and I definitely don't have a prejudice-based relationship with private schools. But I see it as a big challenge if there are more and more private schools, even though I have gone to private school myself. In a society that is becoming more diverse, I'm sure that the most important key is to bet in high school, and that's where we're going to meet. Because if we're going to have one school for the Christians, one for the Muslims, and one for the athletes, I think that's wrong. It's not like that now, but I don't want it to be like that either. It's a conscious policy that we have a strong common school, and we have to build up under it, because that's the answer, as I judge it. So, in the case of taxes: if we remove the property tax, according to the former professor at the School of Commerce, Jarle Møen, we remove the tax paid by the richest of us. For 70 pst. of the taxes paid by billionaires are taxes on wealth. We in the Center Party see great challenges with the wealth tax, but, as the professor at the School of Commerce also says, we should not discuss whether to remove it or not. We have to discuss how we can do it better. Because if those who have the most, they are going to have to do the least, they will have to do so. While the person making 400,000–500,000 is subject to a heavy tax, Petter Stordalen and Gunhild Stordalen shall not be taxed. It's not my model. That's not the policy for most people. It is the policy of a few very few, it will increase the differences, and it will make the social contract worse if you see that it is a ‘Stordalen Layer’ that should not contribute, while those who make 400,000–500,000 are going to contribute. So I think it's strange that so to speak, no parties are within the spatial dimension. There's been a lot of good stuff, but if you look at the differences in Norway, they're very geographical. There's a lot of geographical dispersal. That is why my challenge is again to the Council of State Jensen: does she think it is right in politics to use tools to balance geographical differences? It'll also be equalizing social differences. Or will the government do the opposite? They will reinforce geographical differences and thus social differences, by, for example: a greater proportion of the income of municipalities shall be tax-based? It'll reinforce the differences. So the interpellation started with a question that Jensen did not answer in his answer, and that's: does the Minister of Finance see it as a problem if the differences in Norway are increasing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e316	The last question from Schlagsvold Vedum I answered in essence throughout my main post, and I underlined how the government is working just to reduce the inequalities in a society. But there are questions about what approach you have to what works. We believe that some of the best tools are to make sure that people can handle themselves. Then it's about what kind of framework conditions we have for Norwegian business. Then it's about how we address the actions against those we know have poverty challenges. This is precisely why increased efforts in the care of drug users, in psychiatry, in a better school — to mention some important areas — are so important, and not least to measures to further improve the functionality of Norwegian working life. It is true that there are geographical differences in Norway, but how do we reduce them? Well, just through many of the measures that the government is now in the process of strengthening. Transport is one of the most important means of reducing distances, reducing disparities and ensuring safe, good and functioning jobs across the country. Good framework conditions for Norwegian business are another instrument that we know works. Many of the farms around the country report exactly the same. Safe, predictable and competitive framework conditions are the key and prerequisite for its adoption. So now, I hope – for the first time in many years – an interesting and broad, principled debate on the tax system. In October, the Scheel Committee comes with its report, the task of which is to go through the entire capital tax system. It'll be exciting, because there we can – perhaps for the first time in many years – discuss how to set up the tax system so that it works better. And what do we want to achieve? Of course, we want to achieve that we have to build up more private capital on Norwegian hands – which is invested in Norwegian companies. What's the benefit of that? Indeed, more jobs can be created to help those on the outside of the labour market to get in today. That will be good, and it will be a contribution to combating increasing differences. So it is not a problem that the government has removed the inheritance fee. It's rather the opposite of very good. First of all, it might be good for those who don't have that much from before, but who want to keep a property that has great affinity value, that has been in the family for generations, but that because of the increase in value of many dwellings has been almost impossible to keep in the family's possession by an inheritance. It is only beneficial that the inheritance fee is gone – no disadvantages in my opinion. That's when the time was up. Unfortunately, there were more things I should have said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e325	We'll see if it's possible to tell them at a later stage. The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e343	The theme of this interpellation is simply whether some sensitive personal data in the banking sector are on the way out of control. At the end of March, it became clear that Nets is not only sold out of the Nordic countries, but out of Europe. Nets are linked by most banking customers in Norway as the successor to the Banks PaymentsCentral, BBS. But most have, like myself, until recently had rather vague notions of what lies in changing company logos. The letters we received in the past that confirmed the transfer we wanted the receipt for, BBS claimed it. Later, the very same letters came with a new logo: Nets. Since the merger of Norwegian BBS and PBS, Dankort in Denmark, Nets has evolved to become the dominant payment system in the Nordic region. Nets’ products are well-known brands – AgreementGiro, Brevgiro, BankAxept, eInvoice, Internet banking and mobile banking – and Nets provides mini-bank solutions. Through its subsidiary Teller AS, payment is administered in the Nordic countries for most payment cards, with MasterCard and Visa as the most famous. So far, Net’s organisation and ownership have been quite unproblematic because the banks themselves have been in control. Just as we as customers have had confidence in our own bank's ability to handle our customer information and account movements safely, digital cooperation solutions between several banks have been obviously sensible. Common developments lower the costs for participants and facilitate flows of payments between financial undertakings when the technical architecture is common. Although Nets has been separated as a separate company, it has been under the control of those who provide financial services, namely the banks themselves, and who are left in a direct relationship with their customers – you and me. Of the largest shareholders in Nets, we today find Nordea, Danske Bank, DNB and Danmarks Nationalbank, corresponding to the central bank of Denmark. From medium-sized owners we find Norwegian savings bank groupings, Sydbank and Jyske Bank. These are serious social actors who have great confidence. Now these owners have wanted to sell Nets, and the argument is understandable enough: it is a large and complex IT company that does not represent the core business of the banks. In addition, the sale will also release capital of the order of 19 billion. NOK, which is the purchase price. But Nets has been worth so much because of its dominant market position in the Nordic countries, mainly in Norway and Denmark. When Nets is now sold by Scandinavia, questions arise regarding the processing of a sea of sensitive data on Norwegian citizens and Norwegian enterprises. Not only the information that we as customers each have to provide voluntarily when we enter into a customer relationship, but also ongoing metadata that, through own computer programs developed on the basis of algorithms, can follow the lives of the individual to the extent that you use cards, and most, as you know, do. The so-called Patriot Act following the New York attack in 2001 has extended the possibilities of US authorities to require sensitive information provided, even if they are not in line with the laws of other countries, with us most typical of the Personal Information Act. Nor will the EU rules on the protection of personal data, which the European Parliament is currently working to update in the light of technological developments, apply. The consortium that has purchased Nets is not under European jurisdiction alone. The company is 97 pst. non-European. Even a serious American company that wants to be law-abiding could conflict with Norwegian data protection rules and the EU data protection directive on the one hand and US legislation on the other. The U.S. position has until recently been that American companies are bound by domestic regulations no matter where the servers may be located, nor do they regard the legislation in the field as an international issue as long as privacy is in a legal no-man's country globally. Some interpellations are lost in time from being notified until they are answered. Unfortunately, this interpolation has become more topical. A few weeks ago, it became publicly known that the Danish Watch and Hearing had received all the information they wanted about Danish acquaintances via an cheating employee in Nets. The information allowed journalists to monitor continuously the persons they were interested in, the goods and services they used, and not least the time and place of the transactions when they used cards. Of course, only Queen Margrethe must have escaped this because she does not dispose of such cards and stands – as we expect from the monarchy – a little out of time, a little over time. Of course, attention has been paid to the scarf and its owner the Aller group, which is also a significant press player in Norway. They include: owner of the daily newspaper. So we are facing a whole series of large-scale personal data. But attention should be given to the stealer in the same way – yes, perhaps even more so – not just to the healer. And the basis for these massive crimes is laid by a deceitful employee, but not only, also by a company that has not taken privacy seriously. At the same time as the collapse of the press scandal, it has become known that the Danish Data Protection Authority has criticised Nets for ignoring warnings that the company has not adequately protected its citizens’ personal data. So the question is no longer whether a company we thought took responsibility for processing and encrypting personal data in a reassuring way, and took privacy seriously, but whether they should also do so satisfactorily in the future under new owners. The issue is just as much about the sale of a company with documented security holes, with documented security deficiencies, can be expected to repair them if they come under a new jurisdiction that does not place the same emphasis on privacy in competition for other reasons, such as: transparency for safety reasons and other considerations. In this context, this is very interesting – I think – for the Stortinget that is concerned with privacy, at least we are when we discuss the Annual Report of the Data Protection Authority. The size is probably also interested in hearing the reflections of the government of the Minister of Finance in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e383	The President has not recorded that the Danish queen Margrethe has passed out of time, and will just clarify that it might have been a use of words that was a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e386	On 24 March of this year Nets announced that it had concluded an agreement to sell the company to a consortium consisting of the companies Advent International, ATP and Bain Capital. Advent International and Bain Capital are US private equity companies, while ATP is a Danish pension fund. I will first briefly explain the company structure in the Nets group and what services Nets provides in Norway, before I discuss the details of the representative's questions about the role of Norwegian authorities. The network information is based on publicly available information about the company. Nets is an international group with its head office in Denmark and its activities mainly in the Nordic countries. Nets is currently owned by Danish and Norwegian banks, with some emphasis on Danish interests. In Norway, Norwegian banks, in addition to being owners of Nets, are also customers of the company. Nets offers a number of important services to banks through its Norwegian subsidiary Nets Norway AS. The agreements for the provision of these services are between the Nets and the trade association Finanz Norway on behalf of the banks. Nets provides services to Norwegian banks, including: operation of Norwegian Interbank Clearing System, NCIS, BankID, BankAxept Joint Function, AgreementGiro and eInvoice. Nets has stated that they use data servers in Norway to provide these services, but CSC Denmark in Copenhagen is still used to operate some services. Norwegian banks and Finans Norway, and not Nets, own the systems that Nets provides services to in Norway. The ownership of the systems will, after I have been informed, remain with Norwegian banks and Finans Norway after the sale of Nets. However, networks possess a specific competence in the operation of such systems, which cannot be easily replaced. The role of the network is to provide services for the operation of the systems under the agreement with Finance Norway. Nets are the owner of the technical infrastructure used to provide services in Norway. The financial supervision has therefore addressed Norwegian banks and Finans Norway to ensure that Norwegian banks can provide secure and stable payment services. The agreements between Finans Norway and Nets have therefore also recently been renegotiated, with the result that it will be easier for Finans Norway to choose another provider of the operation of these services in the future, if the banks so wish. However, there are few service providers in this market. I will now comment on the issue of the role of Norwegian authorities in the assessment of the transaction. The transaction is subject to authorisation by the authority, but because Nets is a Danish concessional undertaking, the Danish authority is the concession authority. Nets Norway AS, a subsidiary of Nets, is not a concessional entity. On the other hand, the Norwegian authorities shall approve the change in the ownership structure of the concessional subsidiary Teller, which has a concession from Norway’s Bank to operate as a payment undertaking under the Financial Activities Act. The formal role of the Norwegian authorities in relation to the transaction itself is thus limited, but we have been briefed on the process, and the Financial Supervisory Authority follows up the responsibility of the banks. Secure and stable payment systems are an important element in maintaining financial stability, and Norwegian authorities therefore impose strict requirements on banks in this area. I would like to comment on the question of privacy for Norwegian users of payment systems. Banks manage a large amount of sensitive personal data through their business. It is important that privacy is properly protected. Data protection issues are essentially governed by the Data Protection Act, which falls under the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I have therefore submitted to the Minister of Justice, Mr Tetzschner's question, which has provided the following answers: The press release on the sale shows that there are no changes to the existing regulation of Nets. Nets will continue to be subject to control by the respective Danish, Norwegian and Finnish financial regulators and competition authorities. The same will apply to data protection requirements, which will be unaffected by changes on the ownership side, and it appears that the consortium will also implement further measures to ensure the management of data protection and privacy by Nets. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has been in contact with the Data Protection Authority on the matter. The Data Protection Authority has confirmed that the Director of the Data Protection Authority Bjørn Erik Thon held a meeting with representatives of Nets on 3 April 2014 on the privacy implications of the sale. Based on the meeting with Nets, the Data Protection Authority did not see any legal obstacles to the purchase. It follows from Section 4 of the Data Protection Act that the law applies to data controllers established in Norway. Being ‘established’ requires having a business activity. Here, three cumulative conditions must be met: An activity must be carried out in Norway The activity must take place through a fixed organisational infrastructure and for an indefinite period The controller shall be the controller who determines the purpose of the processing of personal data and the means to be used, as set out in: Section 2 paragraph 2 of the Personal Data Act 3rd@item: inlistbox In this specific case, it is the Norwegian banks that offer their customers the use of different payment services, which are considered to be controllers. The Norwegian Data Protection Act therefore regulates the processing of data concerning the bank's customers. This understanding of the law is based on the Data Protection Authority and was otherwise also confirmed by Nets representatives at that meeting. Nets is therefore only to be regarded as a processor, which processes the personal data on behalf of the controller, i.e. the banks, cf. Section 2 paragraph 2 of the Personal Data Act 4th@item: inlistbox A processor cannot process personal data in any other way than as agreed in writing with the controller, and banks must therefore ensure that they have an adequate contractual network with the processor. Nor may the information be left without agreement to any other person for storage or processing, as specified. personal data law § 15. If data are to be transferred from Norway to abroad, the conditions of Chapter V of the Data Protection Act must be fulfilled. The starting point of Section 29 of the Data Protection Act is that personal data can be transferred to countries that ensure a ‘responsible processing’ of the data, while the first paragraph of Section 30 sets out a number of exceptions to this general rule. Any transfer to the United States will be assessed under Section 30. It follows from the second paragraph of Section 30 of the Data Protection Act that the Data Protection Authority may authorise the transmission even if the conditions of the exceptions provided for in the first paragraph of Section 30 are not met if the controller provides ‘sufficient guarantees’ for the protection of the data subject’s rights. The Data Protection Authority was informed that Net’s infrastructure in the Nordic region will be maintained, that the information will be stored in servers here, and that there are in any case clauses in the contract work that prevent the transmission of data to the United States without the approval of the Norwegian authorities. Moreover, the banks will continue to be controllers in the event of the company being resold to new buyers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e424	I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for a thorough response, especially with regard to the formal structures that Nets is working within today. However, I would like to remind myself that the issue may not go so much on the role of Nets in the Nordic region, but what arises when a non-European company, which is under a different jurisdiction, which, to put it mildly, is not in line with Norwegian, Nordic or European data protection law. Moreover, it would not be restrictive for those who are under American law to have their servers in the Nordic region, as was pointed out here. In addition, I can also add the interesting additional information that is already part of the servers that Nets is using, located outside the Nordic region – as I allow myself to say that Estonia is not a direct Nordic country. What is true, of course, is that Norwegian supervisory authorities must follow up the Norwegian banks, and it is also true, of course, that our financial supervision imposes strict requirements, and must make strict demands, on banks. But the important thing is whether these strict requirements are further imposed, and that, by the fact that the country's financial structure is sold out, the right to intervene and regulate is not granted by law, if it is seen that development requires it. That's where I get a little more in doubt and perhaps have to ask the Minister of Finance, in a little shorter sentences, to give a guarantee that Norwegian users of financial services will not be allowed to weaken their privacy, based on the law we have today. I think it would have been a good outcome of this interpellation if we could get such a unambiguous guarantee. Then I realize that it might be doing more legal homework to get it in place. But I think it is of great public importance that Norwegian bankers know that there are Norwegian personal information rules that protect their personal data better in the future, and that there are actually some shortcomings in correcting the company that is now being sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e439	Let me first say that I am very pleased that the representative Tetzschner is travelling this interpellation. It is important for many in this room to focus on privacy. The government is also very concerned about privacy in many different contexts, and I can assure you that both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and Defence follow up on their respective responsibilities. However, many of the follow-up questions raised by the representative Tetzschner in his second post are the constitutional responsibility of the Minister of Justice. I would therefore ask him to give a supplementary answer to the representative and the Stortinget, so that any questions can be answered through him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e446	I would like to say that the second answer from the Minister of Finance delighted me even more than the thoroughly prepared answer, because I believe that that answer also contained a recognition that the legislation of the pact with technological development and take lessons from such events that Nets has been through. But it's not just about individual pissors from cheating employees. It now turns out, according to what has become publicly known in Denmark, that Nets has been in a blind zone between the local Danish Data Protection Authority and the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority. It turns out, then, that the Danish supervision, which has the closest oversight responsibility for the technical solutions chosen, has not had an interest in Nets in several years. There have been omissions, and therefore it is important that the sales are intensified which regime you can expect, and that of course we also come back to the clarifications that the Minister of Finance gladly said she would like to join the Minister of Justice. I think that is promising, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e451	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended. Since the Minister of Culture is not in the Chamber, the President sees no other way to deal with it than to suspend the meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11:23. ---------------- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 11.26
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e465	The Minister of Culture has entered the hall, and that means that the Stortinges meeting is legally set again. Let's get to the point number. 3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e483	In the government platform, the government has announced that it will open for Sunday open shops. It emphasises that there should be a voluntary nature at the bottom, that those who want to keep Sunday open will have the opportunity to do so, which, of course, sounds very dependable. The challenge is that the principle of volunteering will lead to less volunteering. If one actor takes advantage of the possibility of extending the opening hours, it forces the other actors in the same segment to do the same, for the option not to follow will be to lose market share. If the store is located in a mall, the purchasing centre management decides the opening hours and not the store owner. If your competitor with a larger market share chooses to keep it open, the competitor has made the choice for you as a storekeeper as well. So it's not going to be more voluntary, it's going to be the opposite. We don't have to travel far to find experiences related to changing opening hours. In 2012, Denmark repealed all the provisions of the Act relating to opening hours for working days, Saturdays and Sundays. Dansk Handelsblad wrote on 26 April 2013 that the disappearance of the law has hit the smallest shops harder than intended. In Denmark, the opening time has been extended by 10-15 pst. This is expensive for the stores; it could be up to 50 pst. more expensive to keep open on Sundays. While expenditure has increased significantly, revenue has remained at a standstill. Looking at Danish sales figures from October 2012 to March 2013, a period when the grocery stores had kept open 400,000 hours more, the Danes had not used one more krone than in previous comparable periods. This change in Denmark has resulted in smaller shops having to close down and the largest chains having increased their market share. The situation in Denmark is now such that it is the big chains that push to keep more people open on Sundays, while the independent store owners are negative, according to Dansk Handelsblad of 22 March 2013. Per Nyborg, adm. Director of the Institute for Center Planning, says that there has been a tremendous expansion of capacity, that some will have a sudden awakening, and that only those with strong economic muscles will stand the distance and get a competitive advantage in the longer term. So it's emphatically established that it's the biggest chains that serve the new opening hours. Shop diversity has become harmful, and consumers have less freedom of choice – less competition, less diversity and less freedom of choice. I am therefore surprised that this is what this government wants in Norway. But that might explain why the government is quite alone in this position. Because in Norway there is no large majority for Sunday open shops. Employee organisations do not want open shops on Sundays. Trade and Office say on their websites that they will ‘keep Sunday as a different day when family and children are at the center’. Nor do employers' organisations want open shops on Sundays, and it is not difficult to understand why. The experience gained in Denmark and Sweden as well as in Norwegian studies shows that there will be no change in turnover. In other words, the conversion will not generate increased revenue for the shops, but the cost of both wages and salaries will increase. One way to think about what will be the impact on the trading industry of such a change is to take from an average mall store. Today it has opened approx. 60 to 65 hours per week. Sunday open for 6 to 7 hours means a capacity increase of approximately. 10 pst. That leads to a minimum of 10 pst. increased compensation of employees, most likely more, as Sunday work naturally gives the right to pay more. In addition, all the increased operating costs of keeping open an extra day. Therefore, the impact on shops needs to be compensated by increased prices to consumers. One alternative may be that of approx. 10 pst. the capacity is reduced, i.e. shops are shut down. It's most likely that there'll be a combination of these consequences. Consumers also do not want Sunday-open shops. Infact’s survey carried out for the Norway Group shows that a majority of consumers are against Sunday-open shops. When asked to what extent the individual would use Sunday-open grocery stores, a majority replied: not at all. When asked whether we believe that we would have acted more collectively if the shops were open on Sundays, the whole answer is 70 pst. No and only 12.5 pst. Yeah. There are few customers to keep open for on Sundays when the customer base is 12.5 pst. These results have also been confirmed by a number of studies carried out by several actors. Among other things, a survey conducted by Response on behalf of Evening Post 9–11 shows. ==References====External links== they did not ask for Sunday-open shops. There are also significant environmental impacts of such a change: one more day with distribution, production and traffic to and from the shops will lead to significantly greater emissions from an industry engaged in limiting its climate and environmental impact. It's also a step in the wrong direction. There is therefore no desire for more Sunday-open shops from employees in the retail trade, from employers or from us consumers. Then such a change appears to be more an ideological project than an answer to a real societal challenge. Per Arne Dahl wrote in his Sunday chronicle on 18 November last year: "It is neither God nor the Church who needs Sunday, but we humans who depend on it." More than one million people in the United Kingdom signed the call "Keep Sunday Special" a few years ago. We might all need a different day, as Trade and Office call it on their websites. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of close dialogue between the government and the parties on both the employer and employee sides. There is also a need for thorough impact assessments, so that we know the consequences before any decision is taken. It is on this basis that I wonder what is the government's reason for opening up several Sunday-open shops, and how the government will ensure that neither employees, shopkeepers nor consumers lose such an extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e529	First of all, thank you to the interpellant for promoting this interpellation. The representative, Line Henriette Heimdal, questions in his interpellation what is the reason why the government will open up Sunday open shops, and how the government will ensure that neither employees, shopkeepers nor consumers lose the loss of the opening of Sunday open shops. For the sake of order, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the interpellation is addressed to the Minister for Children, Equality and Inclusion, but it is the law on public holidays and holiday peace that regulates the access of shops to have open on Sundays and public holidays, and this law is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. That's why I, as Minister of Culture, am responding to the interpellation on behalf of the government. The Holiday Act requires shops to be closed on Sundays and other holidays. The Holiday Act has had such a mandate since the last opening time law was repealed in 2003. The 2003 change was justified by the fact that supply and demand were considered to be better suited than the law to regulate the general opening hours of shops. The purpose of the Holiday Act is to protect in Sundays and other holidays. A general rule in the law that shops should be closed immediately creates a need for exceptions. As the interpellant also points out, there are today a number of exceptions from the law's starting point for Sunday-closed shops. This means that many shops have actually been open on Sundays and other holidays. However, it has also become clear that the exemption rules may be difficult to practice and that they seem bureaucratic. Allowing shops to keep open on Sundays could result in more flexible adaptations based on industry type, location, local conditions, etc. It is essential for this government’s policy to build on freedom and trust in the individual, family, founder, community and volunteer. We want a society that evolves more from below. Then we must also control and regulate less from above. We're going to be less detailed. Simplification of legislation is a common challenge for the entire government. The policy platform lists several regulatory areas to be simplified. Allowing Sunday-open shops is one of our measures to achieve a smaller bureaucratic society. The exemption rules of the Holiday Act for certain types of shops involve detailed management, which has led to clear challenges in practice. One example is hardware stores that also sell gardening items, which have to be closed on Sundays. Garden centres, on the other hand, which, in addition to flowers and plants, sell hardware items, will be able to remain open because of the specific exception for these types of shops. Another example is groceries with a sales surface of more than 100 square metres that build their own ‘Brustad’ arches in order to offer their goods even on Sundays. I think more people with me think it's going to be pretty hard that the buyer has to operate with two stores and use the everyday store that stores on Sundays. Such an example is found at Pilestredet Park, where the Coop Prix, the cooperative's own store, has a two-part shop solution. The exemption rules are also bureaucratic. Limits for commercial activity on holidays create the need for exemptions from specific assessments. Last year the population was treated approx. 60 specific cases of exemptions for so-called special reasons. In addition, the county councillors are examining requests from municipalities for regulations for so-called typical tourist resorts. For the time being, it is approx. 85 major or smaller areas of the country which are considered typical tourist sites. These mechanisms bring not only more bureaucracy but also a great deal of discrimination. On the other hand, the holiday arrangements have important aspects. From an old age, it has had a social as well as a religious task. The public would be able to share in the Church's ministry, but also have opportunities for necessary rest. The opening times for shops are a consequence of this. Today we have to ask questions about what is appropriate to regulate in the Holiday Act, and the government wants to allow shops to stay open on Sundays. It has not been said that we do not want to screen any holidays, but it is not given that all the Sundays of the year are equally sacred to everyone. The government has not yet taken a decision on the scope and, where appropriate, what to protect, and whether to protect some holidays in the event. At the same time, the government will include shop clerks in a good law on working time and participation. This is an interest which should be safeguarded by occupational health and safety legislation. Here it is, among other things. the obligation to safeguard the interests of employees with regard to the location of working time. I assume that good working time arrangements can be designed in the framework of occupational health and safety legislation and through agreements. We need to take a closer look at this, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is working on following up this. Again, it is important to remember that there are people who would rather have been free on Friday or Saturday than on Sunday. We live in a pluralistic society, and it requires flexible solutions, including in the workplace. What shopkeepers and consumers lose or win, there may be different perceptions about. Restrictions on opening hours may be detrimental to competition in the market. Today’s numerous exceptions to the Sunday-day-line requirement may distort competition between points of sale. This may be a disadvantage for both shopkeepers and consumers. Retailers are engaged in a level playing field. Access to Sunday open air will allow for flexibility based on concrete assessments – industry type, location, local conditions, etc. At the same time, this will increase competition in opening hours. This must be balanced against the disadvantages of today’s legislation for many shopkeepers. I believe that increased flexibility and a level playing field can work well for shopkeepers in many cases. Consumers also need access to goods on Sundays. Whereas it is necessary to take into account the changing needs of consumers over time; The exemption rules for certain types of shops involve detailed management and have proved to be difficult to practice. Effective regulation of the law must be in place over time. It is not easy to design sensible legal rules in this area. This must be balanced against the increased costs of Sunday soap. If Sunday-open shops are not profitable, I assume that supply and demand are best suited to regulate the future opening hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e559	Thank you to the Council of State for her articles. I'm glad we can have this discussion and this interpellation to shed light on different aspects of this question. Governments are concerned with supply and demand, that this government stands for freedom, trust, and that things should be controlled from below and not above. Yes, that view shares the signed far on the way, but the challenge here is that there is no popular requirement to have more Sunday open shops than what we have today. Yes, we have these Brustad arches, and we have some challenges, there's no doubt, considering that garden centers can have up and sell garden accessories and hardware, but hardware stores that sell garden accessories cannot have up. There are some challenges, but the issues we've had here in Stortingen before and tried to find solutions, and then today's government wasn't so very willing to join in on the solutions that were there. So it's also about doing to find the good solutions to the challenges that today's laws present, instead of opening up completely. I am pleased with what the Council of State says that it should be a good law for the workers, with good working hours and good regulations, and that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is doing it, because it is crucial. Looking at Denmark and what has happened there since 2012, you don't act on Monday anymore, but you act on Sunday. It is clear that it has something to say to all the shopkeepers in view of when you have to be at work now compared to when you were previously at work. I challenged the Council of State in my first post to look at the consequences, both in terms of the workers – she replied to that – and in view of the environmental impact. We know that you run more in Denmark now than you did before, because of the pattern of trade. The last thing I want to do is add two more things to the impact assessment. One goes on prizes, and the other goes to the local stores, the district stores. What consequences will it have for them if the government decides to promote this matter for the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e572	As I said in my post, there may be different perceptions of what the consequences are, and what consumers and not least shopkeepers have to win or lose on that one changes the opening hours. What I'm at least very concerned about is that the restrictions on opening hours that are today can be unfortunate for competition in the market. There are also a lot of people who have stressed that this is a challenge. As I also said in my post, shopkeepers are engaged in a level playing field. It is something that they highlight in all areas, that they want to have a level playing field, and the access to Sunday open air will provide room for more flexibility based on concrete assessments, as I said, both off-site, local conditions and industry type and other similar moments that play in. It will increase competition in opening hours. Of course, this has to be weighed against the disadvantages that it brings to many shopkeepers. I believe, in principle, that increased flexibility and a level playing field can have a positive effect on the shops in very many cases. As I see it, the way it is organized today is that you have this Brustad-bua – I mentioned a concrete example not very far from the Stortinget where there are kind of two shops in one store, and you run and operate with a curtain and go behind the curtain and pick up some goods when you lack it – not a very good way to organize this. I think it would be much better that you have a regulation that regulates it so that those who want to be open have the opportunity. I also think it is important in view of this with bureaucracy. As it is today, we see that there are more and more applications for exemption from the legislation, and there are also more and more who really want to be defined as a tourist destination. It is also a comprehensive bureaucracy that is the result of the legislation that is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e579	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the representative Hemdal of the Christian People's Party for an incredibly important and good interplay. Reducing the debate on Sunday open shops to deal with when and if you can shop for milk, bread or clothes on a Sunday is a derailment of the debate. This is primarily about what kind of society we want. Which direction are we going to go in, what values are we going to have? Trade in goods is Norway's second largest industry in the private sector. The figures from Trade and Office show that approx. 180 000 jobs in the retail trade. If we include the entire industry – the trade in goods – there are 370,000 employees working here. There's a lot of them. If all shops and shopping malls can have open 24 hours a day seven days a week, this obviously has consequences for those employed in the goods trade. However, there are also consequences for many other professional groups linked to the trade in goods: cleaners, weights, storage and transport workers, suppliers of goods and service functions related to repairs and maintenance — to mention something. Maybe it will also eventually require us to have Sunday-open kindergartens. Here we're talking about a lot of people who change their working hours to also apply on Sunday. Sanctity is important to all of us. That's when we have time to be with our family. That's when we have time to be with our children. That's when we have time to have joint activities, go watch a good Rosenborg fight, go to church together, play a handball game or maybe just sit and cuddle on the couch. It is not the same thing to have time off on a Tuesday when the children are at school, as to have time off on a Sunday when the children are at home. Does the government mean that parents are going to take the kids out of school to have Sunday on a Tuesday? This also has implications for volunteering, on which teamwork and association work depend to a large extent. I have cooked many liters of coffee, fried an incredible number of waffles, cooked and ordered sausages at all kinds of events, which you here in the hall have also attended. Amazingly many sporting events and festivals during the weekends – to mention something – have been carried out with great effort. When fewer people are free on Sundays, there may be fewer people to be with and stand up and take those parts. Several hours open does not necessarily mean more profitable hours for the shops. It was said by the interpellant that figures from Sweden and Denmark show that they do not pay off. Of course, the proposal for Sunday-open shops will put considerable pressure on pay and working conditions in the industry, and it should just be lacking. Once again, it can lead to more expensive food. Is that what the government's policy is? Consumers do not want Sunday-open shops, the industry itself does not, the organisations do not. Then I wonder, what is the government's intention with this proposal? So Sunday-open shops are so much more than just the availability of goods. It is a choice of values, and here is the Workers' Party with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e600	Yeah, it might be about what kind of society we want, but we already live in a 24-hour society, and the Internet is one of the things that have contributed to it. I wonder what kind of shops you might want to force on Sundays. Is it the clothing store B-Young, or Sorbet, Accessorize, The Body Shop, Netcom, Boots Pharmacy, Dressmann, Master Green, that everyone is allowed to open at Oslo S? Are there those shops that are allowed to have Sunday open in so-called tourist municipalities, like Kiwi and Menu on Rjukan, while the tourists in Oslo, who are not allowed to call themselves a tourist municipality – there are half a million tourists visiting Oslo every year – can get to grips with Deli de Luca, 7-Eleven, Mix or Narvesen, where they also work? Of course, these tourists don't need to go to the plantation, where there's a lot of people on Sundays, and it's not just garden equipment and hardware – decorative cushions, lights and cat food can I buy there. Some of these tourists may find out about Grünerløkka, where they can buy travel manuals and equipment on Chillout, used clothes on Velouria Vintage, things on Sharm or shop vegetables on Sultan Market – small and independent shops that sell more on Sundays when customers are out and going, quite environmentally friendly, than in office hours on Mondays, when many of them actually choose to keep them closed. It's their different day. The chain shops are also open, like Accessorize and The Body Shop on Grünerløkka, which help to create the life that we who live there appreciate so much. And you can shop at the second-hand market in the Birkelundy or at the antique dealer in Sannergata. This is not promotion, this is not advertising. I'm talking about shops that have Sunday open, so I have to bring the names. Why is it that, on the one hand, we complain that people no longer care about the actual message of Christmas, so that so temporarily allow Sunday-open malls in the time before Christmas to make it easier for people most? If the trade is a problem and the rest day is to be held sacred, should we close the Internet on Sundays? Why is it that we nordics appreciate walking on Oxford Street on a Sunday and acting before we go home to everyday life in Norway? We're actually trying to stop something that's already here. We also need volunteers at the football game on Tuesday, and my grandmother appreciates visits on a Thursday as she does on a Sunday. A majority may well say that they do not want or want open - for - Sunday shops. I believe that when the stores that are open today have to go down because of the lack of customer base. It doesn't seem to me that there's an extreme unwillingness among the people most against walking through an open and living city on Sundays. Nor have I noticed any price rise at some of the stores that choose to have an open, chain or independent. And what about gyms, cafes, cinemas, swimming pools, restaurants — all the others open on Sundays? On the other hand, those I hear protest massively against Sunday-open shops are the billions of concerts behind shops like Kiwi and Meny, who have invested in the hundreds of millions to adapt the shops to the Brustadbu concept. Of course they don't want any more competitors. They scare with higher prices and losses on the market, interestingly the same arguments as the merchant population used against the Right State Council of Astrid Gjertsen in the 1980s. Those who don't want to trade on Sundays or want to keep it open, don't have to, in the same way that we don't force the small independent shops or the Mathallen, with which several of the staging representatives should be familiar, to have open on Mondays. Unlike Denmark, there are the big chains that say no. They serve on a ban that prevents the small, while the small on Grünerløkka break the law in order to compete. And that's what it's all about: it's about equal conditions of competition and opportunities, about small independent shops not having to break the law in order to be open, about an open and modern society with respect for those who don't want to participate, but yet not necessarily so that their wishes should drum us who want it. But then I want to say, if you want to force someone, I'm going to encourage you to start with the 24-hour training centre, which is the vis-à-vis where I live. It is not necessarily that it is Sunday soap that is the problem, but without closing hours I have absolutely no excuse not to practice. So I think it's at least a good place to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e626	The President will remind you that even pleasant requests must go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e629	The interpellant brings up an interesting debate. This is a theme that still appears. The last time there was a focus on this in the media was around the Christmas trade. I don't quite understand why someone who wants to keep open their store, won't be allowed to do so. I don't understand why politicians should define what's right or wrong if you're shopping in a small or big store with the exact same range. Plant outlets such as Plantation etc. has a Sunday open air service, like petrol stations, which sells much of the same range of goods as the retail trade, the hardware trade and plant outlets. For these industries Sundays are often the best day of the week. We as consumers receive a lot of advertising for new garden plants, spring plants, tools, motor tools, garden furniture, barbecue equipment, etc. The plantation and other plant sales are allowed to sell these goods all days including Sunday. Then the question is, what is the difference between buying plants, garden products, grilling equipment, tools, etc., that you can buy on the plantation, and buying milk and bread, which can also be bought in Sunday-open shops today, such as Coop, the local store, Kiwi, Bunnpreis, Statoil, Shell, Esso, etc. as long as they have a limited sales area? Why really this artificial division of the area? In addition, we see that with today's system there is a discrimination in terms of the fact that the product range that was natural before is no longer applicable. This discriminates, inter alia: type of shops like Maxbo, Montér and Jernia, as they cannot have Sunday open. In practice, opening hours were lost in 2003, with the exception of public holidays and some days off. But there was a slight exception, that's if the stores were less than 100 m2. With that the problem was solved, because the arguments for this should be that Sunday should be a different day. That's what happened to me, too, because the shops are different here. I do not see this as more different than that the shops that sell food are 100 m2 if it is Sunday, the store is even bigger, and on Monday the store area is larger. It's a different day. I am familiar with approx. 450 Sunday open shops around the country, and there are increasing numbers of them, as well as nearly 1,000 gas stations and kiosks – not because the shops think it's clever or profitable, but because society and the market are changing all the time. As for the discussion about whether it's profitable or not, if one of them does, the other one has to do it, too, I don't see it that way. Fewer gas stations are open 24 hours a day. When you started it, they said everyone wanted it, and then it would go wrong, but it didn't work out that way. A number of people in this country work evenings, nights and weekends for the social machinery to go around, almost 30 pst. It sounds like almost no jobs on Sundays today, but it does. It's not unique to work weekends. The trade pattern changes over time, and the product range changes according to people's wishes. It's like when the NRK was going to go from black-and-white TV to color TV, it was also a problem – just like when you were going to start having longer transmissions on the NRK and not start at noon. Eighteen in the evening. The market is changing. It is often said that if you open Sunday-open shops, more people have to work on Sunday. I'm not so worried when you can actually facilitate that more people who want to work and make money alongside the studies get the opportunity to do it. In addition, families actually work different shifts. Someone might choose to be at home during the days of the week. Maybe Mom's at work, while Dad's taking babysitting, or the other way around. In any case, the Working Environment Act shall be complied with whether it is Sunday or Wednesday. This also applies to all other places where you work today on a Sunday. In addition, it must be mentioned that it is not that Sunday open means that the individual store is forced to keep open on Sundays, but that is an opportunity, among other things. because some people think it is right and good, and because the market in which the store is located suggests that it should be open. If it was not to be profitable, I would have hurt to believe that the shopkeeper would unlock the door on a Sunday. Nor is it the case that people have to act on Sunday if it opens up for this. For me, people still have to do what they want on Sunday, be walking or being at home with their family. But I see no reason why I, as a politician, should refuse consumers to shop in a politically defined store that is less than 100 km2 or the plantation stores. It's no longer morally or ethically right to trade in a store if it's less than or over 100 km2. I'm recording that the world has moved on, and I think everyone can see that. It was also decided that the trading position would not. No well – in Fedrelandsvenn last yesterday it was said that the trading position will have Sunday open. It is referred to neighbouring municipalities, where turnover has increased, and they want to save their industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e673	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising a very important question. This is not just a question of the working time of employees in the trade in goods, it is a question of something that has major societal implications. The centre party will protect on the holiday law, and we believe that we should still have a different day. All those who have professions that they can do on a Saturday and do not necessarily have to do on a Sunday should have Sunday-free. Why does the government want Sunday open shops when everyone is against them? The shops are against, the NHO trade fears the consequences. There were some here who claimed that it would not be more expensive goods if we had Sunday-open shops. It's pretty simple math: we all agree that we don't buy any more milk and bread because it's open on Sundays. So the turnover will be the same, but the cost will necessarily increase, for example. because there must be more employees – and I hope finally the government believes that we will continue to have UB supplements on a Sunday. Ergo will increase the cost. And that's easy math: it gives you a reduced profitability and higher prices of goods. As it is in Norway today, we have the capacity to serve twice the population we have. We have a very overcapacity on the shop side. This means, of course, that if the margins decrease, we will also experience store deaths in Norway, as we have experienced in Denmark. Even after one year of experience in Denmark, over 100 local stores were closed. Wagner, who is the head of the trade association The Cooperative Copenhagen, i.e. the employers’ organisation, warns the Norwegian government and asks it to think carefully before it allows for Sunday-open shops in Norway – once you have seen the consequences in Denmark. Proximity shops and niche shops will be damaged. The district stores will be damaged. This is another government intervention that affects small and medium-sized enterprises. The customers are against it. There is no call about any longer opening time. Questionnaires in the Evening Post and the Class Battle show that 60 and 70 pst, respectively, are against. There was the question: Do you want Sunday-open shops? If the question had been, would you like to have Sunday-open shops if the goods became more expensive, I think maybe the answer rate would have been both 80 and 90 pst. It is said to be voluntary, but voluntary for whom? The malls have a common opening time. Everyone who is there is forced to have the same opening time. This will force employees to work on Sunday, it will force people in the distribution to work on Sunday, and it will force people in the production to work on Sunday, because the demand for Sunday open bakery will soon come, since we will also have fresh bread on Sundays when the shops are open. So this will be forcing both shopkeepers, employees and customers. The fact that employees are opposed is not so surprising. This is a large profession, with 370,000 employees, and they have more than enough uncomfortable working time from before. Many of them meet their kids at the door when they go to work. Now we're also going to take from them the time they have with the family, the opportunity to spend the day together, whether they choose to go to church, on a ski tour or at a museum. Anyone who can do away with the job on a day-to-day basis should be groomed for Sunday work, but many must necessarily work. Staff in care, farmers, those working in the hotel and restaurant industries, etc. have to work on a Sunday. You can't milk on Saturday and be done until Monday morning. Those who have such occupations must exercise it on a Sunday and must be compensated in ample for that disadvantage. The community will develop from below, said the minister, but where does this demand for Sunday open shops come from below? Customers don't want it, local politicians don't want it, employees don't want it, and the stores don't want it. One might as well be free on a Monday, it was said. Yes, maybe so, but at least we have to have one specific day of the week that is a day off – a day when the whole family is free, when the kindergarten is closed, when the school is closed, and when those who have the opportunity to do it can have time off from work. And then the tradition in Norway is one Sunday, and I think we should keep going. Or is it that all public offices should also be open on a Sunday? Is it perhaps that we in the Storting should start meeting on a Sunday? Because it's probably like we're spending a few days off Monday and Friday trying to get the days around the weekend in our home state, so we can spend it with our family.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e702	Then the speaking time is closed, I would have almost said!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e705	I would like to commend the Christian People's Party representative, Mr Hemdal, for addressing the matter, and for taking a holistic view of both working conditions and environmental impacts. The dispute about Sunday-open shops shows very clearly how different approaches we can have to the concept of freedom, which the representative Flakne and others have also explained well. As a general rule, shop clerks should be free on Sundays, just as most other workers do, is a sensible scheme we have in Norway. The percentage of turnover in trade in goods in Norway is roughly the same over six days as in other countries over seven days. And that's an easy way to ensure productivity in an industry that in many other countries has lower status. Those who trade goods in Norway earn as much in six days’ work as others do in seven days. If we remove the Holiday Act, and when the last remainder of the protection for merchants' rights on Sundays, it will not be about any freedom, either for employees or for owners. The malls will require the shops to keep open and the chains and independent shops will have to follow in order to keep up with the competition. In the next round, there will be a need for weights, cleaners, goods transport, wholesalers and storage staff, who will have to work on Sunday, and then public services such as kindergarten and public transport will increase. More expensive goods and bankruptcies will be the most realistic way the market will react to this extra cost. With 370,000 persons employed in the trade in goods, there will be a significant benefit for society rather than further developing such a sensible agreement as is reflected in the Holiday Act. As elected representatives, we must note that neither the employee side nor the employer side has called for the termination of this scheme. Numerous studies show – as it has been referred to today – that a clear majority of the population are opposed to Sunday-open shops, and I know no one who has gone on trains to trade on Sunday. On the other hand, in the 1st May train in Oslo, 8 900 gathered behind the main parole: «Yes to fixed and duty-free Sunday – the government's proposal». In the matter of Sunday work, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left have moved away from the reality of most people living in. My mother worked in the goods trade from the early 1970s until she recently retired from the pension – a job she was proud of, and gave her many joys. Among the disadvantages caused by the job, more and more evenings were almost without customers, because the mall would do the opening hours without increasing sales. I wish more Right and Left people were also concerned about the parents who rarely see their kids, because customers should have the opportunity to buy milk and bread long after bedtime. Sunday is about the last thing we have in common time – for family dinner, tour or gebirthday visits. Even I have 17 years of shift work on the back and can sign that we workers too understand that some weekend work is necessary. I've been working at a hotel. For example: cinemas, restaurants, hospitals and hospitals we need people to work on weekends, but we don't have to open everything. The representative Nordby Lunde mentioned that shops create lives on Sunday. The representative Nordby Lunde can be with me and run the flea market in Groruddalen for the school music if she has a lot of free time on Sunday! We in SV are associated with the employees in the trade in goods, with their trade unions, employers' organisations and people most against the government in this matter, and we hope the government puts the proposal at the bottom of a drawer and throws the key.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e724	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising one too many important issues, and she is quite right that this is not in any way a popular requirement. As the interpellant stressed, this is not the wish, either of consumers, workers or shopkeepers. Others have argued well why they do not want to. The representative of Nordby Lunde made a strange contribution. She talked about what you wanted to coerce – that someone would coerce the Internet on Sundays. As I see it, this is simply an attempt to ridicule the interpellant. So in the name of the matter, this debate is not about forcing anything; it is about opening up to more than we have today. The representative, Mr Flakne, made a good contribution to show us what this debate is about – among other things. about values. Government responses to the interpellant dealt a great deal with a level playing field, less detailed management, less bureaucracy, consumer needs, individual freedom, etc. The Council of State also argued that there was probably a strong desire for shops to have a level playing field. I can see that, but this is not where the big challenge lies with regard to Sunday-open shops. The industry itself doesn't want it at all. I wonder: what is the government having understood like NHO, LO, the industry itself and the consumers have not understood? The Holiday Act requires permanent outlets selling goods to consumers to remain closed on Sundays. The background for this is multiple. First of all, Sunday should be a different day – which has been attended by more people. It shall differ from the other days of the week, as the law states. Secondly, many shops have long opening hours throughout the week. Since 2003, we have not had any adjustments to opening hours in everyday life. This reduces the need to act on Sundays. So today shops are open from 7:00 in the morning until 7:00 in the morning. 23:00 in the evening. If you can't buy the groceries you're going to have, I don't think Sunday-open shops will help a lot. Thirdly, the consideration of employees is also important when discussing Sunday-closed shops. The rights of workers are governed by the Working Environment Act and, as a general rule, workers are not to work on Sunday unless there are particular reasons for doing so. In my view, workers in the trade in goods should not be subject to greater labour pressure on Sundays than is currently the case. Among other things, they actually work the last three Sundays before Christmas. Although the general rule is that outlets are to be closed on Sundays, the law provides for a number of exceptions – as mentioned above – for, among others. outlets with limited sales area, outlets located in defined tourist areas and outlets selling mainly flowers, plants and gardening. These derogations have been granted in order to provide for practical reasons and needs. I believe that this means that we have an appropriate balance between having a day off duty while ensuring that consumers have access to the goods for which there are particular reasons to allow. In the end, I actually thought this government was against increased prices. Especially did we hear it in the last period, and the red-green government got a lot of criticism because, among other things. food prices were too high. This case will at least increase food prices. As I said, I thought this government was against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e750	Perhaps the most important argument for changing legislation is the discrimination that today's laws provide. It is simply not easy to understand why it is easy to sell garden furniture in the garden centre, while the furniture store is forced to hide the garden furniture behind the blending curtains. Just as little does it make sense that a grocery store in the tourist municipality of Tjøme is kept open, while the merchant is forced to shut down some quick swim roofs away, on the summer island of Nut Island. We know the history behind today's legislation, but society has changed, and today's more or less random discrimination seems comical and inexplicable in 2014 – not only because you can buy milk and daily bread in Brustad-bua, but a young shopkeeper runs between the big store and the built-in little bow to fill up the shelves along the way, but also because Sundays are no longer the only exclusive day. There's two reasons for that. One reason is that more and more jobs work on Sundays, both in the necessary service production and in attractive service companies. The second is that in a multicultural society it is no longer exclusively Sunday, which is the one more special day for everyone in Norway. We simply have to wipe away people's personal choice of holiday or holy day, if you want. People decorate their lives themselves and choose to a greater extent what day they want to go to a godhouse, take a walk in the woods, or just lie on the couch. It may be painful for someone to take this in, but to hesitate to force a random selection of shops to stay closed for a few hours, is what's the solution, is to stick your head in the sand and refuse to see society change. It's the coercion to shut down the stores we're now going to remove. There is no obligation to keep it open – each store chain decides, of course, on its own. Yes, parts of the industry are negative. Why are they? Surprisingly, many of them already have a good share of the existing Sunday trade. It is also the case that working on a Sunday is no longer unsuited. Many want it in a more flexible society. A third work outside normal working hours, i.e. outside the traditional pattern Monday-Friday and free on weekends – a third! It is also pointed out that Sunday soap will drive food prices in the weather. Well, today's milk and bread at the gas station are not exactly characterized by normal food prices around, so I as a consumer might actually experience the opposite. Many people have pointed out that working on Sundays is a burden; others have even pointed out that working at all is a burden. It's not like people are going to work more, it's going to be more work for more. With today's situation, you also have the challenge of getting tops in the trade that stress shopkeepers and customers. The month we're in right now is a very good example. Take a walk at the store just before one of the long weekends we're in front of, you can see it quite clearly: long cows, lean in the shelves and tall shoulders – also with the employees. Finally, I would like to point out an important environmental aspect that should also be able to find the sound bottom of interpellant Hemdal and her party. It's not just about driving to and from the store. In Norway, an insane amount of food is thrown away, like 40 pst. has been stated. A large part of this is food that goes out to date and is no longer available for sale for the grocery stores. With a more streamlined flow of goods, logistics will improve, and the amount of food thrown down by the chains will decrease significantly. Permitting open shops on Sundays is to eliminate discrimination, while achieving significant positive effects on the environment and value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e771	Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate with their perspectives. I think it's been a good interpellation. We have very high availability with long opening times in our shops in everyday life, there's no doubt about it. Sunday-open shops will have consequences both for employees, for the shops, for the chains and for us as consumers. So it's said by the Council of State and by the Right and Advance Party that it's about freedom for the individual, and we have confidence. But it is not freedom for the employee. You don't want to experience that freedom. It is pointed out that there are equal conditions of competition. But when you look at the experience, it's the small and smaller shops that are hit and that have to be laid down. They're the ones that go beyond, and then there's not going to be a level playing field. The previous speakers, the representative of Løvaas, took the environmental and climate perspective into account. It's signed very busy. Several grocery stores just put down the price of the groceries on Friday and Saturday, so that we consumers will buy them versus buy a product at the full price. The challenge is that if you are to have fresh cups and 17 types of bread on Sunday, you also have to throw them, because as a consumer you want the bread rack to be full when you arrive at the end of the day – so that the amount of food can be discussed. I'm concerned about freedom of faith, that everyone should be allowed to believe whenever they want and whatever they want. This is not about the ‘old’ Sunday in this respect. That's why I just referred to the United Kingdom, which has a different tradition and a great popular commitment to a special Sunday connection in the country. This is not about forced connection, Internet shutdown or any other connection, but it is about opening up. I think we have a lot to pick up on to clean up and have clear and clear boundaries in terms of the shops that today may have opened up. I think that is something the government will have a great understanding of – and also this house. We all live in this problem, but having a full release is something other than going in and looking at the limitations that today are demanding for everyone. That's how some students might be allowed to work a little bit more. But students who are going to work three Sundays must be trade-organized, and there are few of them. It's just like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e788	I would like to thank you for an interesting debate. I'm taking with me all the points of view. I think it is important to weigh different views against each other no matter what position you take in relation to this issue. I would like to say that the government has not taken a final position on the scope and design of the amendments to the Holiday Peace Act that we have announced. It'll be done. These proposals for changes will also be put to the consultation. I guess we'll get recordings that are important to include when the changes are going to be made – and we'll have a debate on this in the house. Many have asked questions about the purpose. I have repeatedly pointed out that the government's intention is to simplify it. The exemption rules for permitted Sunday trade have led to an eroding of the provisions. They work poorly in practice, and we believe that less regulation can actually provide more flexible solutions in the future. There were many people who were asking about what kind of society we really want, and what kind of values to base. The government's policy is based on trust and freedom for the individual – not only that, but also for the family, the founder, the community and the volunteer. We have faith that society is evolving from below and that there is no basis for us to participate in the best possible way from above. A very important point from the government is also to accept that you make different choices. Having equal opportunities is a prerequisite for making the different choices – that you actually have a real chance of doing it. I also feel a great need to stress again that preventing discrimination is also a very important driving force and an important argument to help us get Sunday open shops. Some have been involved in the cost of this, and what if Sunday-open shops were not to turn out to be profitable? This government may have more confidence in the market. In fact, if the Sunday-open shops are not profitable, I assume that supply and demand are best suited to regulate the opening hours in the future, and that we can facilitate that the market is actually able to regulate it itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e803	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e819	Kampfiksing and the problems surrounding it were seriously put on the Norwegian agenda when former Minister of Culture Annikken Huitfeldt took the initiative of a national action plan against combat fixation in sport. Both the Norwegian Sports Association, the Norwegian Football Association, the Lottery and Foundations Board, Norsk Tipping and Minister of Justice Grete Faremo developed the action plan together with the Minister of Culture. The action plan recognised the need for joint action on what had become a significant international problem and had reached Norway. The problem was and is large and complex and requires cooperation between sports organisations and different authorities. The plan dealt with effective action by creating attitudes on waste, on alert mechanisms, on responses and on penalties. It was obvious that this could not be the responsibility of the sports alone. At the trades seminar in front of the sports gallery this year, fighting fixation was the main theme. More with me got insight into a crime that is significant and increasing in scope. The sports union had acquired international competence that described a crime that was unknown to many of us. That this is also a major policy, is confirmed by one of those who have worked most on the problem issue, the Canadian Declan Hill, when he describes how the Asia championship a few years ago was decided by means of combat fixation, and that the medal distribution was completed before the championship started. Through an active sportsman, we were also told how practitioners in a vulnerable situation can be an easy trade for criminals — criminals who use sports in their economic gain business. The example of a game-dependent football player who can – and is capable of – fix an event in a game, well describes what we are facing. Former IOC President Rogge has described fighting fixation as a bigger problem than doping. The Council of Europe has also committed itself to developing a common strategy against the turbulence. DIF – the Danish Sports Association – may be the most advanced organisation in the Nordic region in terms of anti-fight-fixing initiatives. If this has a link to the liberalisation of the game market, I do not know. But what's certain is that combat fixation has a close connection with different forms of ‘biting’. There are many foreign ‘betting’ companies that have Norwegian matches in their gambling offer, ‘betting’ companies in Asia and Europe. Of course, there's nothing criminal about it, but it does mean that there are many practitioners at different levels who can get an offer to influence events in a fight against them getting a sum of money. Gamblers who have played on that particular event earn money, and there is reason to believe that Norwegian practitioners too are to some extent exposed to such offers. It's played on Norwegian boys' matches, on third division volleyball in Brazil, on who wins the first game in a tennis game, and it's played on who gets the first free kick or thrown into a football game. Gambling takes place 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. Because when Asian practitioners sleep, the game is moved to games in Europe. And when the football season ends in large parts of the world these days, it's Norwegian football matches it's being played on, because our football series is doing summer time. Fighting is the deliberate manipulation of sports competitions. It's just an agreed game, and it's the opposite of fair play, which is the top value of sport. I think we've only seen the beginning of the theme of empty stands if in the future the spectators are going to be unsure whether the result is decided in advance. And is it that you can put money on who gets the first shot, and a practitioner at the same time is bought and paid, the game policy itself is also threatened. Sport is completely dependent on people's trust. Fighting is therefore an extremely serious threat to sport, and sport is one of the largest Community arenas we have in Norway. There is therefore a Norwegian action plan to combat fighting fixation. It is an important part of ensuring the value of sport, ensuring a safe and reliable gambling market and combating international organised crime. There is an involvement in sport in general, and there is every reason to commend the information and attitudes of the NIF and that sport contributes to ensuring knowledge and attention on the theme, so that it is spread across local teams and associations. When we talk about combat fixation, we often think about football. But combat fixation is available in all sports – in volleyball, in tennis and in pro boxing. And when several individual idres develop new forms of competition on which there will be opportunities to play, the uvesense can also spread there. So with a one-sided football focus, the criminals will have a too light game. So there's reason to be sure that the criminals realize that the attention to this obscenity is there in all our minds. In addition to the fact that the involvement of the NIFs and the Football Association has to be praised, the organisation of professional football players in Europe – FIFPro – and the Norwegian organisation NISO have also shown a significant commitment to the criminal activity. The Don’t Fix It campaign encourages each player to play fair, to be open about suspicions and requests they had to get — if not to share sensitive information that can be exploited, even to get involved in the rules, in particular that you yourself are not allowed to play on your own sport. This job deserves all support. As far as I know, in Norway today there are two cases under investigation. We must be able to call it a new crime. Erik Hagen’s experience from FK Zenit and Russia has attracted a little extra attention and, at best, has provided some relief to put combat fixation on the agenda in Norway. The danger is that many people are tempted to believe that it still does not happen in Norway. The values and integrity of sport depend entirely on competitions being based on skills and skill, team spirit and honesty, and the fact that each performer always has his or her own interest — that of doing his or her best. Fighting and results fixation is the opposite. It is just sloppy that should not characterize one’s response to such a great and serious threat as that of this case. Whether you're a sportsman, a coach, a spectator or simply a socialist, I'm sure that unusually many people appreciate the active involvement of practitioners, sports and governments – locally, centrally and internationally. The point of bringing this matter into the main hall now is to assure us that the Minister of Sports is also engaged – that she has noticed the previous IOC President's statement that fighting fixation is a bigger problem than doping. Follow-up to our national action plan on combat fixation in sport is a matter of course, since nobody has said anything about the opposite. But with what we now know about combat fixation, I am sure that more effort needs to be put in than what we thought was enough when the action plan was created. Then is my question to the Council of State: Could she imagine setting up an independent function – if not to the extent that we see in Antidoping Norway, then in some comparable form – an anti-fight fixation agency or something like that, in Norway? The aim must be to contribute to knowledge, monitoring, making it easy for individuals to report on suspicions and requests for fixation in sport, possibly in consultation with the Lottery and Founding Supervisors. I also think there is reason to ask questions about whether the law is sufficient today. I look forward to an exchange of views on this matter with the Council of State and the representatives of big business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e861	First of all, I would like to thank the representative Aasrud, who addresses the challenges we face in the field of combat fixation in sport. I think we can start by saying that we all agree that fighting fixation does not belong in sport. It's a threat equal to doping. It reflects the fundamental values of sport and may harm the integrity and reputation of sport. The government therefore wants to prevent, detect and react to combat fixation in sport. Fighting is not a new problem in international sport, but it has become a rapidly growing problem in recent years. The development of the international gaming market has made sport more vulnerable to fighting fixation. Today, online gambling companies operate across borders. The Internet has greatly increased the range of games. Fighting is attractive for organised criminal environments operating internationally. There's a lot of money to make out games, and sports competitions are manipulable. We also know that games are a known method of money laundering, and sport becomes interesting for criminal environments. Sport cannot do the fight alone, because fighting fixation is about much more than sport: it is about financial crime, and it is about international criminal networks that use sport as a tool. Combating fighting fixation must therefore take place in cooperation between sport, game operators and public authorities, and international cooperation is crucial, as the interpellant was also in. Work on fighting fixation starts by recognising the scale and severity of the problem. All countries face these challenges — including Norway. In the summer of 2012, these problems suddenly got very close. Then – as has also been explained from the interpellant – we were confronted with possible combat fixation in two matches in Norwegian 2nd division football. The police are still investigating the matter, so I'm not going to go further into this. However, there is little doubt that the case has increased recognition in Norway of the need for effective fight-fixing in sport. That is why it was very good that the previous government in December 2012 presented a national action plan against fighting fixation. The plan obliges the parties to contribute to the fight against fixation and provides a basis for close cooperation between sport, Norwegian Tipping and public authorities. Our government is behind this plan, and for me it is a high priority to follow up the work in this area. Our task is now to contribute to the follow-up of the intentions of the action plan with concrete action. Effective fight-fixing requires close cooperation between sports, gaming companies and public authorities, as I said. Last year, a cooperation forum against fighting fixation was established in Norway. Lotteries and foundations, Norwegian Tipping, Norwegian Sports Association, Norwegian Football Association, Norwegian Rikstototo, Norwegian Travsgesellschaft, Kripos/Politiet and Ministry of Culture. The Forum is a concrete response to the need for cross-sectoral cooperation. Cooperation shall ensure the exchange of information and the sharing of competences between the Parties. Sport itself has a crucial role to play in fighting fixation. There will often be organised criminal environments behind the fighting fixation. However, fighting requires the involvement of sport’s own ranks. I am therefore pleased that Norwegian sport takes these challenges seriously. I got it, among other things. when the Minister of Justice and Preparedness and I met with the Norwegian Football Federation earlier this year. Here was work on fighting fixation one of the themes. Knowledge and recognition of the challenges facing sport are crucial. A clear regulatory framework, combined with prevention and awareness-raising, is important and it is particularly important that knowledge is disseminated to practitioners, trainers, clubs and judges. These are the ones that will first of all be exposed to attempts at combat fixation. Increased awareness, knowledge and good attitudes will make everyone better equipped to say no to any offer of combat fixation. We must also recognize that combat fixation is not just a problem in football; it can occur both in individual dresses and in coats. I am therefore pleased that the Norwegian Sports Association prioritises the fight-fixing work in sport. Already last year, the laws of the Norwegian Sports Association have been tightened up by adopting two temporary legislative changes to the criminal provisions. An explicit ban on fighting fixation was introduced, while a ban on all gambling was introduced on its own competition. The provisions shall apply to the whole of Norwegian sport. NIF has also carried out a survey of the practitioners, managers, trainers and judges on the knowledge and extent of combat fixation in Norwegian sport. Based on the findings of the survey, the Norwegian Sports Association will develop and implement a combat fixation package. Information, awareness, guidelines and procedures will be included here. The aim is to create sustainable attitudes towards combat fixation in Norway. However, it is equally important that sport should give international priority to fighting fixation. I would therefore like to address these challenges with the IOC when they visit Norway later in May. I am pleased that the IOC has also put combat fixation on the agenda, and that they stress that this is a problem in line with doping. As a game operator, Norsk Typing has an important role to play in fighting fixation. Norwegian Typing is completely dependent on the confidence in the products they offer. Norwegian Typing takes these challenges seriously and has taken several measures against fighting fixation. Market surveillance is one of the main instruments used by them, which provides opportunities to adjust the odds or to close the game in the event of suspicion of irregularities. New IT infrastructure for sports games also provides Norwegian Typing with the opportunity to effectively regulate its gaming objects. By taking into account risk assessments, the company may manage its turnover, inter alia. by differentiating the input limits of the type of sport and the type of the game object. In addition, Norwegian Typing has strict internal control procedures. This includes procedures to prevent maladministration by commissioners and measures to reduce the misuse of playing cards by linking all gaming transactions to a secure ID. The Lotteries and Foundations Authority supervises the systems developed by Norsk Tipping to manage the risk of fighting fixation. In cooperation with other Nordic lottery authorities, last year, a report on the fight-fixing work was presented in the Nordic countries. The Ministry of Culture has received an enquiry from the Lottery Authority to establish its own control unit with top competence in financial crime in the field of lottery and gambling. In the United Kingdom, the establishment of the Sports Betting Intelligence Unit has been a success. The Ministry will now assess whether such a unit may be relevant to Norway, but it requires a more detailed examination of various questions, and I have not yet taken a decision on this matter. At the same time, we must recognise that the biggest threat of fighting fixation in Norway is probably not related to games at Norsk Tipping. Today, a very large number of foreign gambling companies offer games in Norwegian sport, for example. Norwegian football matches – also on matches in lower divisions. We also know that there is a very large gaming market in Asia and that there is considerable money being played on European sport. An effective fight-fixing response is therefore conditional on Norwegian sport being well equipped to meet the challenges they face. This requires further close cooperation and coordination between stakeholders in Norway and requires good international cooperation. Since the autumn of 2012, Norway has been taking part in negotiations under the auspices of the Council of Europe on a new international convention against fighting fixation. The Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Justice and Defence and the Lotteries and Foundations have all taken part in the negotiations. The purpose of the Convention is to strengthen the possibilities for preventing, detecting and sanctioning combat fixation. National coordination between public authorities, gaming companies and sport shall be strengthened. In addition, there is a need to strengthen international cooperation. Work on the Convention is now in its final phase. Norway welcomes the establishment of a new Convention and has taken an active part in its work. I will end by saying that the work against fighting fixation in sport has a high priority. For me, it is important to contribute to good coordination of the work of stakeholders in Norway, because it is only through broad cooperation, both nationally and internationally, that we are strongly equipped to tackle the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e907	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which was a good review of the situation in the field, and there is every reason to keep paying attention to these issues. I wish we had seen even more proactive measures from the authority side too, because very much of what we hear about here is, of course, measures that the sport is going to implement. And I'm very happy that sport does, and I totally agree that we should support it, but I think it's important that we take more responsibility for this situation from the authorities, too, now that we see the problem increasing. I think it is good to now look at and assess some kind of action related to the Lottery and Foundations to be able to look at warning systems. I expect that we will get a case about this to Stortinget. I myself am somewhat uncertain as to whether the Lottery and the Foundation's supervision is the right body, but it is possible to discuss and safely find out good systems for. In any case, it is important that it is a system that has great confidence in those who are to be alerted. It could also be interesting to hear what is left in the negotiations in the Council of Europe. I understand at the Council of States that those negotiations are coming to an end, and I would like to think that something was said about what is now going to happen in order to obtain a text of the Convention under the Council of Europe, and what are the obstacles to progress. Finally, I have to say that I agree very much with what the Council says about Norwegian Typing. Norwegian Typing is an excellent tool for ensuring that we have games within a responsible framework, and with the measures that Norwegian Typing can implement, we have the opportunity to check this in a good way in Norway internally. It was supposed to be because we also use Norwegian Typing as an operator for games in Norway in the future. Here, the Council of State has a unique opportunity – at very short notice – to go in and make changes if we see that the games that Norsk Typing has give some unfortunate results. If this is to be done for other types of actors, it is the law that must be used. It doesn't help you get a good tempo in these things. I thank you again for your answer and hope that the Council of States can comment a little more, in particular with the Council of Europe and if there is no other measure by the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e920	Firstly, I believe that it is important to contribute to a good coordination of the fight against fixation among the parties involved. It was precisely one of the important points of the NAP presented by the previous government that the parties themselves are responsible for following up the various actions in their fields. At the same time, it is also very important that we have a good exchange of information and knowledge between the parties so that the overall effort against fighting fixation in Norway is as effective as possible. I think at least that this is something we're going to be very focused on in the years that are coming: to make sure that all parties are conscious of the work they're going to do. Since the fall of 2012, Norway has been participating, under the authority of the Council of Europe, in the process of obtaining a new international convention against fighting fixation. Over 40 countries have taken part in the negotiations. The draft Convention is now under consideration in the Council of Europe's responsible bodies, so that it has actually been negotiated, and the aim is that this Convention should be ready to be signed at the ministerial meeting in September. However, this is a very tight timetable. There is a risk that delays may occur along the way, which may help to prevent targets from reaching targets in September, but the intention is therefore there. The design of the Convention reflects the need for cooperation in the fight against bullying across sectors. The work involves sport, the gambling sector, public authorities — including both the police and the judiciary — and the Convention also focuses on the importance of international cooperation against fighting fixation. Consequently, the Convention is divided into three parts in substance. Some articles address the roles and responsibilities of sports organisations, some articles address gambling companies and gambling regulators, and some articles deal with criminal provisions and the role of justice authorities. I am very pleased that the interpellant underlines that there is a broad interest in focusing on this area. I think all the good contributions are necessary to be sure that we are able to get a better monitoring of this in the years to come. With regard to the concrete proposals of the inter-pellant, it is one of the areas that we can also take with us when we are going to assess this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e931	First, I would like to thank the representative Aasrud for taking this initiative. It's a very important thing to be a driver. I am also very pleased with the Minister of Culture's expressed willingness and commitment to address this. In Bulgaria, 12 athletes are killed in combat fixation. In South Korea, there is a record of suicide in connection with revelations related to combat fixation. In Italy and several European countries, there are a number of lifetime exclusions of both players and judges, and the much-reported Norwegian-Malta national match in 2007 was manipulated without anyone in Norway noticing it. Fighting happens more often than we think, and Norway is a quite transparent society. It gives us good leadership to fight combat fixation, but Norway is also a country with a very high level of trust between people and groups, and it can trick us into thinking that we have a good overview, that we only expect that such a case will be exposed by itself and that it is not possible to carry out economic crime as a combat fixation on a modest scale. But without a systematic work, such a case will not be exposed, unless there are similarities that expose them, and it does not pray in length. Fighting is not a sport. It's a joke. It's rocking at the base values of all sports. It may harm the integrity and judgment of sport, and not least there may be large amounts of money in circulation and attempts at money laundering. If we look at combat fixation in a European perspective and transfer the experience we have internationally to Norway, there is also reason to believe that things happen here that we do not know about, that are not exposed and that do not have criminal consequences. That's why I'm glad that the sport itself is busy with it, and that the sport itself initiates knowledge acquisition and knowledge sharing, so that a person can both prevent and fight against fighting fixation. But sport cannot do this work against fighting fixation alone. An effective fight-fixing effort has led to cooperation between sports, gaming companies and public authorities. The connection to gambling has made sport more vulnerable to fighting fixes. The Internet has also given the game market new opportunities, but it has also made the game market more vulnerable, because now it is no longer possible to regulate it only nationally, because the gaming companies operate across borders. However, something is happening in Norway. It is possible to send a clear normative signal. It is possible to take policy initiatives in relevant international forums. It's possible to take responsibility for bringing people together, pushing for cooperation in this field, and not least raising the knowledge of all the actors that it's up to in Norway. The Justice Committee has a special responsibility for the police. In the first action plan against fighting fixation ever, which the previous government was delighted to present, it was pointed out that the police have little knowledge of the extent of fighting fixation in Norway. This knowledge must be self-evident, for which you are able to discover, also refers to which members you have, which professional resources you have to go on. Before criminal law, one can at least frame combat fixation with legends about, among other things. fraud, corruption and economic fraud. As the representative of Aasrud pointed out, there are two issues in Norway today during research, and it can help raise the level of knowledge in the police in this field too, but there is a need to equip police and prosecution authorities with the best authorities to fight the fight against fixation. Then they also need more systematic knowledge raising. I am pleased that the Minister of Culture has met with the Norwegian Football Association and the Minister of Justice, but I also hope that the Minister of Culture, along with the Minister of Justice, will take the initiative to increase the knowledge and leadership of the police and prosecution authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e955	The national action plan against fighting fixation in the sport 2013–2015 states: ‘The general consensus is that the link to gaming activities has made sport more vulnerable to fighting fixation. The Internet has revolutionised the gaming market in recent years. Before the Internet, sports games were regulated at national level. Today, online gambling companies operate across borders. The market has become more difficult to regulate and it is challenging to follow up suspicions when more than one country is involved.’ This section of the Action Plan is very touching on the current situation and challenge. As a result of the progress of the Internet in society, Norwegian consumers have access to a large and uncontrolled international gambling market – a market that is highly competitive in relation to the Norwegian gambling market and over which the Lottery Authority has neither overview nor control. We must recognise that the opportunities for playing on international gaming markets have come to be, and rather facilitate the provision of their services to Norwegian consumers by international gaming companies in a safe and transparent manner. In the Sundvolden platform, government parties agree that: «examined the issue of licensing arrangements for foreign gambling companies to see whether it is possible to combine social policy considerations and increase total revenues for voluntary activities within the framework of the EEA Agreement». The result of such an investigation is that it opens up to grant concession to other gaming companies, so that also other gambling providers are allowed to enter the Norwegian gaming market. By allowing foreign gaming companies to operate in Norway under Norwegian concession provisions, we facilitate a safe and responsible gaming offer. At the same time, part of the profits of non-resident gambling companies will be due to Norwegian volunteering, which it does not do today. The action plan against fighting fixation in the sport 2013-2015 contained some good measures that I believe should be continued in the government's further work against fighting fixation. Kampfiksing challenges the basis and soul of sport and is a problem we have to take seriously. It is important that we continue to work to strengthen our knowledge of both what combat fixation is and what the consequences of combat fixation are. Fighting is subject to a number of criminal law provisions, and practitioners, trainers, leaders and judges need to have a good knowledge of them. Fighting, as defined in the action plan, is financial crime, which my party and I take seriously. Information on the seriousness of fighting fixation needs to be disseminated, and awareness-raising efforts need to be made in the various sports environments. Fighting requires the participation of professional sportsmen, and only in dialogue with them will we be able to prevent the further spread of such crime. I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important and serious topic, where it is only a matter of time before it blames Norwegian sports too. This is challenging, it is demanding, and I hope that together – and I think also politically – we will agree on how to actually tackle it. It's demanding, but together I think maybe we can manage to get to something that's good, to prevent what we call an obscurity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e978	I want to give praise to the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic that we may not discuss daily in the Storting, but which I think many should be concerned about, because the recent years of detection of combat fixation in sport provide insight into a criminal activity that is suitable for undermining the basic values of sport. As serious as rocking the fundamental values and integrity of sport, we simply see the development of a fraud industry where criminals use sport as an arena both to make money and to make money laundering from other crimes. Sickness about fighting fixation is a growing problem – I think – in several sports, it has been especially football that has received attention, and it is especially football that has been hit so far. When the International Football Association, FIFPro, published its report on the conditions of players in Eastern Europe, it was a shocking discovery of conditions and serious crime, of violence, threats, lack of pay, extortion and fighting fixation. Afterwards, examples from a number of other countries and leagues have also been revealed, and we have also seen that it is played over to other sports than football. One must also say that money laundering from other crime — which is often combat fixation — is being carried out in ever-new and ingenious ways. It requires governments in many countries to work continuously to keep up the pace both through the law, through research and through gambling policies. It is true that when the risk is considered to be relatively low, while the gain may be enormous, it should not be surprising that many people are testing it and trying it. Nor should it be surprising that Norwegian sport is also being subjected to attempts at combat fixation. The evidence that one has seen from individuals who have been contacted about fighting fixation — either directly or who have been informed about that type of activity — shows that players in lower divisions are equally likely to be tried to manipulate battles. Attitude-making and the regulation of sport are therefore very important and must try to meet this challenge. As a number of speakers have pointed out, it is also my impression that sport has addressed the problem both through awareness-raising work and through international forums. But the scope of combat fixation shows that sport does not have the opportunity to take this fight alone. Sport may introduce rules, and one may work with awareness-raising at all levels of its own organisation, but sports organisations alone have no chance of combating criminal networks operating across borders. From the red-green government, as mentioned in the inter-pellant’s contributions, a national action plan against fighting fixation was presented in December 2012 – a cooperation between the then government, several different special federations, the Sports Association and also Norsk Tipping and the departments. It's a plan of good intentions, and it's important, but it's not alone enough to curb this kind of crime. We are now in year two in the follow-up to the plan, and I think it is quite essential that all parties in the cooperation keep up the pressure and take action. I am very pleased that the Council of State also today confirms that the new government wants to continue the work in this plan and continues to have the attention necessary to this work. That's good. That's good signals, and we're going to follow from this room. I would also like to stress what has been said about the importance that the police and prosecution authorities also have attention to speedy clarifications of these kinds of issues. So it's been mentioned things about gambling policy. Gambling policy is inextricably linked to the concept of ‘fight fixation’, but we must not do this as a debate on gambling policy alone either. But there is no doubt that a game policy with increased competition also increases the pressure on fighting fixation. It increases the pressure against manipulation of single events in battles and increased use of games where odds are put on different game objects in a fight – which is particularly vulnerable. We also see that ‘better’ in lower divisions opens up several arenas that can be in danger again. But let's not make this a pure debate on gambling policy. But let's not ignore that it's actually a big challenge, the developments we see in game policy. The centre party expects someone to put the necessary pressure on this. We're never going to forgive ourselves if we don't take this issue seriously enough early enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e997	It seems like there's a very large consensus, and it's a good thing, because combat fixation destroys and – I'd almost said – pollutes something of the finest we have in many ways: sport and the whole existence of sport. It's basically about an activity that too many start at a young age, before school age, and that is associated with joy, which is linked to health, and which is associated with role models and idols – and then, as we've also seen examples of in Norway, cases of combat fixation, which tears down the whole attitude we have to sports on a wink. So we have a common cause, and it also seems to be a common interest in finding good solutions. As the Council of State and several others have also been involved, it is the sport, the gambling companies and the authorities that together have to do this work. I think that sport and gaming companies may have a special responsibility, because it has to sort of be cleared up in those arenas where it's going on. But, of course, the authorities should also put a click on this. Then the 2012 action plan has been referred to, which is also very widely agreed on having a very good record. Then it becomes important that we go from action plan to concrete action. The Cooperation Forum is good. Norwegian game actors are in. We might be able to discuss whether you should invite more people in. I'll come back to it in a little bit. There will also – as we have heard – be an international convention. It's exciting. We have to look at the effect of it, but it's at least so that it fights on multiple fronts. It is also very good – to get hold of this. Interpellanten, Aasrud, and several others highlighted Norwegian Typing as perhaps – you could get the impression – the only way the players could be present. I think we have to dry to think a little bit further than that. There is an internationalisation of the gaming market that makes it possible for us to consider inviting other players as well. I think it's a strength to get more. The serious actors with whom we have been in contact say themselves that they are very concerned about fighting fixation, because it destroys the whole foundation of their industry. The basis of nutrition is threatened, and they themselves want to join in and fight this. This applies – as we have heard – to lower divisions, but it also applies to unprofessional actors. This may also apply in countries further away than in many of the nearest countries where it is played. Finding solutions with gaming companies outside Norsk Typing and Rikstototo – along with sports – I think it will be essential to succeed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1010	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important matter. In the meeting between the Committee and sport, this was a subject of great attention. The positive signals we get from the sport, we're going to take with us. It is within sport itself a great willingness to fight this. Fighting is not a new problem – the problem is that it is increasing. As one who is happy in sports and the important values it stands for, I have to say that the development of combat fixation is of great concern. That is why it must be done. It's clear that if you don't succeed in fighting fixation, it will go beyond just the values that sport stands for. Of course, sport as an attraction to the audience will also be greatly weakened if you think that the decisions have already been decided in advance. So for sport itself, this is important. This is also of great importance in the game market, as there is a link between the game market and fighting fixation. I would strongly warn against doing anything in the gambling market in Norway that deprives us of the way we can regulate this, namely through the exclusive right model. Yesterday, a report showed that 22 000 people in Norway are struggling with gambling addiction. 89,000 are at risk. Without mixing the cards too much, at least this – and of course the theme we are discussing – shows how important it is that we have a good regulation of the gaming market. The exclusive right model for Norwegian Typing is the model that enables us to regulate this – with the social mission that Norsk Typing has. That is why we must at least not pursue a policy that challenges it and that could lead to the abolition of the model of exclusive rights. Everything is related to everything, also within the theme that we're discussing here. Of course, fighting and fighting fixation is also about international crime. Many view sport as an area where, among other things, can wash money. I am pleased that the head of the Justice Committee at Stortinget has been very clear on the role and responsibilities of the judiciary here. This is something that we, together – across several sectors – need to address, so that not all sport and gambling policy are almost rotting. As I said, I am very pleased that we have had this debate in the Chamber, and I will once again thank the interpellant for raising an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1024	I would also like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. I think it's important that we sometimes lift up and discuss a little bit different kinds of things than what we usually do in this room. It's not often we discuss sports policy in Stortinget, although the sport movement is something that is very close to many of us. A lot of people are interested in sports. When sport can be destroyed because it cheats, it is very serious. I agree that we should keep the tab high when it comes to those who are baptizing. This is interesting: Baptizing makes one to win – that's what sport is all about – but fixing fights makes one for the very opposite. Therefore, it is important that we view this as serious issues, both of which challenge the basis of sport. What can surprise one after listening to the debate is that both the Progress Party and the Right today are calling for us to liberalise gambling policy. I fully agree with what representatives Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Marit Arnstad say, that there is no direct connection between playing and fighting fixation – because it is not. The gaming companies – like everyone else – are at least equally dependent on the absence of combat fixation, because it also undermines their activities. To let go of a lot of new actors: there will be more advertising, more advertising, and more will be triggered to participate in that kind of activity. It may also be in the interest of starting to fix battles. I also believe that we should not approve types of events in Norway, for example. pro boxing, where we know there's a lot of fixation going on. Again: I am pleased that we have had the debate, and that more people are concerned about this. I am also pleased that the justice sector sees this as a work that is also important to them. Although sport has to sit in the driver’s seat and although gambling companies have to have good practices and rules to do so, this is too big a problem not to be taken seriously by the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1037	I would once again like to thank the interpellant for asking this important question and, not least, everyone else who has contributed. I'll take it with me in the further work. I think that's right, what the representative Hadia Tajik – I think it was – said that fighting fixation happens more often than we think. She referred to great activity internationally – in a negative direction, as set. I think that's a good point that's being said, that the trust between the people and different groups here at home must at least not help us get naïve. I think it's very important that we all have a long way to go -- that we're concerned about -- this with mind-creating activity, raising awareness among our leaders, trainers and judges, in sports, not least, the dissemination of knowledge and the dissemination of information between the different actors, that we're all conscious of this. It is also very important that initiatives are taken. We do so, both internationally in connection with Norway's obligations in a new international convention – as I mentioned in my previous post – and by noting that the IOC has become aware of this issue and seeing that Norway has developed a good monitoring system, which Norsk Typing has developed. This is one of the issues I want to discuss with them when they come to Norway at the end of May. At national level, I think it is very important that we intensify our work. Today there are no separate legal provisions in Norway against fighting fixation. However, the provisions of the Criminal Code on fraud, corruption, financial adultery and coercion, respectively, could be used in matters involving fighting fixation. Of course, these sentencings will also have a bearing on combat fixation. I assume that if the police's ongoing investigation of possible combat fixation in Norwegian football ends with a charge, a subsequent trial will show how appropriate the relevant sentencing officers in matters relating to combat fixation are. Just a few words about this with the action plan: it is three years old, but it does not necessarily mean that work is over after 2015, when it is done. Many of the actions outlined in the action plan are long-term and have a long-term value, and it is also very important for us that we have a continuous focus on this work and look at what we are going to do with it. I feel a great need to say in the end that it is also clear from the Sundvolden statement that the government will investigate the issue of a licensing scheme for foreign gaming companies to see if it is possible. We're working on that, but I think it's very important to establish that there is a broad consensus – including from the government – that the exclusive model of Norwegian Typing best safeguards the social policy considerations of gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1052	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1066	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given following submissions from the main speakers of the parties and six replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1075	This proposal for a representative is about the government's process and behaviour linked to the government's proposal to abolish price control in the concession law. The concession law regulates the turnover of agricultural properties. The aim is to regulate and control the movement of real estate in order to achieve effective protection of agricultural production areas and of the most beneficial ownership and use conditions for society. Price controls also aim at recruiting active professionals to the industry and facilitating ownership of agricultural properties that provide a basis for long-term and good resource management. Around 9 000 agricultural properties changed owner in 2012. The vast majority of these were within the family and are therefore not subject to the provisions of the Concession Act. Only every third transfer was free sale and two out of three transfers were intended for agriculture. Only a few were subject to price control, and only in some cases was the concession refused because of too high a price. The proposal to abolish the price control was sent to the hearing before Christmas with a deadline for consultation in February this year. At the same time, a letter was sent to all the municipalities, county councils and the State's agricultural administration, asking that the consideration of the price should not be attributed 'a decisive weight in the assessment of whether to grant a concession'. The letter points out that price controls may have adverse effects and that the aim is to increase the turnover of agricultural properties. The last time the theme was being treated in Stortinget was during the treatment of Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Agricultural and Food Policy, Welcome to the table. The Progress Party and the Right proposed that the government should make proposals to abolish price regulation on agricultural properties. This proposal was then defeated. The majority of the committee believes that there may be good reasons to look at the regulation of the price control in the concession law, but believes that the government acted unjustly when the sent letter to municipalities, county councils and the SLF to disregard Section 9 of the concession law, because the government would propose to cancel it. The majority believe that this presupposes a necessary political process. We also know that the Enlarged Committee has examined the matter and the matter was adopted at its meeting on 25 February 2014. In addition, the Committee points out that the final design of the price control for agricultural properties takes place in the Stortinget. The consultation round has now been concluded, and in a letter from the Minister of Agriculture and Food dated 6 January 2014, it appears that the objective is that the Stortinget can bring the matter under consideration during the spring 2014 session. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1094	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1097	We come back to the issue of price regulation and the material content of such an important part, really, of Norwegian property policy and property management. This matter is very much about the management of the legislative process by the government and the Council of State and the preparation that is now underway for any treatment in the UK. We also heard from the representative of Farstad that this has been dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. One of the reasons for re-examining it in the United Kingdom as such, and also making proposals in the Economic and Social Committee, is that a majority in the United Kingdom points out that the government and the government have acted unjustly by anticipating legal proceedings and also created uncertainty in the municipalities. It is with some wonder that I see that the Left does not agree with the proposal that helps to clean up the insolence. My question is, what is the background for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1104	We've found it right now to point out quite clearly that here's the unyielding behavior, but chooses not to go further than that. It is after an overall assessment, and then we get back when we are going to deal with the matter as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1109	I also show that the left was happy to take part in a very scratch note. I don't think it's given a good answer as to why, when someone thinks it's done something wrong, they can't join in and ask the government to clean it up. The representative answered the previous question. I would like to ask the representative whether he has an expectation, in the light of the examination of the matter today and the comments that are available, that the government will then, on its own initiative, clear up the critical behaviour that has been in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1116	I expect the clear message that is being expressed here now to be included by the Minister of Agriculture and Food in the further work on the matter as it is based here, on what is going on on the formalities. I expect the Minister to take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1121	In another case, the Left is completely unclear as to which steering signals the Storting gives the government. Last time we discussed the customs question. Then it was like the government had one policy, the majority in the Storing had another, and the government did as it wanted. In this case it looks as if it is exactly the same: The size indicates that the government has done the wrong thing, but the majority of the population – of which the left is part – will not agree to say that the government should do the right thing. What are the assurances given to the representative from the Left that he believes that the government will change its view on this matter, withdraw the letter and confirm to the municipalities that they will comply with the law until the law is amended? Is there any indication that the government is going to do something other than what they've done now, a signal that the Storting hasn't got it on, but that maybe the Left has got it on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1128	I'm dealing with what's being said in the hall. We do not have any further dialogue about this in addition to our expectations that this will be followed up, and that it will be noted what is pointed out here in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1133	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1137	I want to start by saying that the price instrument and price regulation of land and forest properties are a very important institute of agricultural policy. There is some background to raising this proposal, at least from the Labour Party, and also when we see that the government has chosen to deal with such an important institute in the way it has done. This, in my view, very much triggers a parliamentary reaction and a parliamentary debate. We come back to the issue of price regulation on a later occasion, and I find reason to stress, as is also apparent from the Labour Party's agricultural policy platform, that we are open on our side to see to what extent this works. This has been an important element in how we have managed the property structure in Norway. I just want to mention on this occasion that for many types of property transfers it has been crucial for what kind of ownership we have of land and forest in Norway, and what will govern this ownership. Is it primarily capital strength, or is it actually such that we want to have a settlement across the country and have a food production and a wood production that is, as much as possible, locally anchored and locally controlled? There is some evidence that the Workers' Party is skeptical about removing the price regulation system, but at the same time it is open to see how the scheme works. I also believe that it is essential, and there are also some other elements of agricultural policy, that we are able to see the instruments we are discussing here, in conjunction with many others. So taking out one measure, one tool, is not very appropriate in the view of the Workers' Party. So the price instrument is absolutely important for what I see is an explicit measure by the government, but also by the opposition party, namely how we can recruit new people, especially young people, into agriculture and forestry. For me, it is striking that government parties seem to pretend to be cutting prices and helping to actually increase prices will make it easier to be recruited – that is, when it gets more expensive, it will be easier to get recruited. In my opinion, it is actually so that it becomes easier and more advantageous to sell and leave the industry than to go into the industry. I mention this now because it's an important part of a political whole in terms of soil and forest. What is now under consideration is the question of the uncertainty created in Norwegian municipalities about what is actually the law. In my opinion, there has been a timely question in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, but in this context, when it comes to the Scientific Committee and to treatment in Stortinget, it is primarily to try to repair some of the uncertainties that have been created. I would like to stress from the Labour Party that we believe that this letter, sent by the Council of State, Listhaug before Christmas, is to prejudge the legal process. It is to set aside an essential part, an important principle, of the concession law when asking Norwegian municipalities not to place decisive emphasis on the price control institute. It's serious in itself, and I think the Control and Constitutional Committee, at least parts of it, has made it clear. Now you have an opportunity to correct. Now we are faced with a situation in which a majority of the parties and a majority in the Norwegian Grand Prix believe that this is an inexorable case by the government and the Council of State. In this there may be a clear signal to the municipalities that the letter that was sent before Christmas, which is described as insolent, should be disregarded. It's my clear advice if it's that we don't get a majority for our proposal in this round. This is my clear advice to Norwegian municipalities. Then you have to follow the legislator's post-work to the law, in fact, and ignore this letter. But I think it is for the sake of cleanliness – and this is where I am voting for the Left and Christian People's Party that is not included in the proposal – that the Council of State should take an initiative in clarifying to Norwegian municipalities that this is actually the case, and it sounds very trivial that it is the wording of the law that actually applies until the Storting has changed them. The majority today has an opportunity to create clarity, and I will continue to encourage the parties that have not signalled support for the proposal, to do so. With this I address our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1154	The representative Knut Storberget has thus taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1157	We're discussing something today that should be a non-thing. We are discussing a letter from a government council to the municipalities, which has been through the control and constitution committee. We're discussing a matter that should really have been processed. To all intents and purposes it is that among the proposers, we find two former state councils. What we should be asking ourselves here is whether those who state councils have ever sent out letters and used the term "supplied" from the ministries. Of course they do. It is that we should really discuss why that concept practice is ok from a red-green government, but not ok if it comes from a progress party council. So thin is this thing we're discussing. It is not that you have asked the municipalities to ignore something, you have sent out a recommendation on how to interpret the law. A political direction has been identified. It is entirely within the parliamentary system, and it is completely in line with how the policy is carried out in Norway, how the operational part of the parliamentary system works. This is a moodless case from the opposition, which we really shouldn't spend so much time on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1168	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1171	I want to say that I think the representative Bakke-Jensen took a little light on this and had a little arrogant vision. There are people in Norwegian municipalities who believe that price control is an important instrument. They receive a letter from the Council of State saying that one should not take into account parts of Norwegian legislation. I believe that this is a very real matter, and it will take a long time for a person to deal with the final issue of price control. So my question is, is it not for the municipalities that are now sitting and dealing with this, and that use price control, a clarification of the situation, and does it not impress the Right when a majority of the Biggest parties so clearly express criticism in the comments in the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1180	No, it doesn't make much sense to the Right that we get these critical comments in the case. In addition, we also have to draw attention to the fact that the same remarks state: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Centre Party, considers that there may be good grounds for considering the regulation of price control in the concession law.’ In fact, the hearing that has been and the legislative work that is coming is expected, and you can see that. And I still believe that there is no uncertainty created by the letter from the Council of State. It is quite common practice for governments to use this type of letter — the kind of political signal — in terms of how municipalities should use the law. That is why I believe that the Council of States is in line and that it did so in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1192	With all due respect, I have to say that it is reasonably ‘fresh’ by a representative of a party who is now in government, saying that one does not choose to take into account what a majority in the Grand Duchy actually says. It doesn't promise well how to deal with the Storting in the future, and that's a contradiction to what we've heard in the past about how to deal with the Stortinget. It is quite common for governments to send out letters with both recommendations and one and the other. But the challenge here is that the majority consider this to be irreprehensible because it is contrary to the concession law. There aren't so many government councils that have tried, I think. It's rare for government councils to be met by a majority of the Stortinges who say, "This is unforgivable." Does the representative not see the need – when a majority in Stortinget says this – to create the necessary clarity for Norwegian municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1199	Yes, the representative sees the need to provide the necessary clarity to Norwegian municipalities. That's why it's my point that you have to read all the comments to find out what the committee thinks. You have to read all the comments in order to find out what the majority in the Grand Duchy means. It is not useful to take out three lines of the case and say that this is what the Storting believes about the matter. The Committee has been quite clear: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Centre Party, considers that there may be good grounds for considering the regulation of price control in the concession law.’ And: If the letter from the Council of State had been as serious as the representative Storberget here suggests, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee would have dealt with that matter quite differently. We do have tools to get government councils into track. It has been dealt with in the Control and Constitutional Committee. What we see here is a rematch from the representatives, and – no! – In fact, I believe that this is a thin matter, and I believe that the Council of State has been in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1209	I'm on the Control and Constitutional Committee, and the reason we didn't choose to go further with the case there was that we saw that it took time – it went out, it was just an urgent exchange of letters – so we chose to put in a Document 8 proposal to get the matter settled in the Stortinget. That's why the matter is here, and in the Control and Constitutional Committee we are quite free to reopen the matter whenever we want. That is why this treatment is so important today. When the Left Party and the Christian People's Party believe that this is inexorable, and that the government should act differently, while the representative from the government party now says that it is nothing more than running, there is reason to ask – at least the representative must clarify to the Christian People's Party and the Left – whether they have to participate in the concrete proposal today if we are to get the government to turn around. Because there is nothing but power that can make them change their views on this matter and withdraw this recommendation that is contrary to the law, until, if necessary, they have changed the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1214	I think you should read all the comments in the case when you want to understand what the Committee thinks about the matter, and in all the comments on the matter, there is a main emphasis on this being a review of the law that is wanted. That is one thing that is desired, and I also believe that the Committee has said that there is no support for the proposal. If it had been the way the representative here claims that there was a majority in the Grand Council who would instruct the Council of State, it would also have been a majority in the Grand Council who voted in favour of the proposal today. But it's actually not like that. The case has been submitted, there is a minority voting in favour of the proposal, the majority of the majority in Stortinget says that the matter should be annexed to the Minutes. Then, in my poor opinion, we are on the track in this matter. And that's not how Stortinget instructs the Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1219	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1223	The Christian People's Party believes it is unfortunate that the government intervened on the Storting's examination of the proposal to abolish price control in the concession law. We also believe that it was unfair to send out a letter that takes it for granted that the proposal would have a majority in the Grand Duchy, when the parliamentary situation does not warrant it. I assume that the proposal of the Central Party that we are now dealing with has the intention of clearing up the insolent incident and not humiliating the Council of States. We therefore believe it is more appropriate for the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to take the time to promote the proposal for price control for Stortinget in order to have a final decision on the matter than to send new letters to the municipalities. After the elections, we have a new political everyday life here in Norway. We've got a minority government, which means that power is now in the Storting. Where the previous government could settle matters at the Chamber and beat it through in the Stortinget, today's government has to deal with the other parties in order to secure a majority in Parliament. We in the Christian People's Party must be constructive with the Left. But being constructive isn't the same thing as being nodding. I believe that the new political everyday life is a clear advantage for democracy. It implies that the distribution of power is again according to the current principle in Norway, where the government is executive, and the Storting is legislative power. Of course, I and the Christian People's Party expect the government to relate to these realities and not take the consent of the Storting for granted, and this may apply within the area we are now discussing. As regards price control on agricultural property, which we also discuss, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party still wants to maintain price control on agricultural property. The removal of price controls on agricultural property will, as we see it, make recruitment of agriculture more difficult. Especially in areas around the cities, the prices of property will be driven up by people who want to have large estates such as housing or leisure, which you should not be envious of, but they do not want to run the farms. This could then prevent farmers, who want to operate the uses, from buying them because the market value of the properties without price control cannot be defended by the income generated by the farms. This would be detrimental not only to recruitment but also to resource use, contrary to Storting’s objective of increasing food production with the intention of increasing self-sufficiency. I would like to quote from an overall committee, i.e. the whole spectrum – from the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Advance Party – which agreed on this in the budgetary position: ‘The Committee stresses the importance of facilitating increased recruitment in order to achieve the ambitious objectives of increased food production with a view to maintaining self-sufficiency. The Committee points out that, in order to ensure increased recruitment, it is important to have a stable framework for industry and to facilitate the establishment of motivated operators within the industry. This also includes the need to facilitate, in particular, the setting-up of young people.’ Here we talk a lot wisely. It is an overall committee which agrees on the direction of agricultural policy in this area. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the removal of price control will help prevent increased recruitment and is therefore contrary to the aim of Stortingen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1248	Although I heard the representative explain their views, at least it is a fact that the Christian People's Party is involved in stressing that this has been an inexhaustible process. One consequence of this, in my opinion, was that one had joined the proposal that the government had clarified this for the municipalities. It may feel as if the Christian People's Party has been tied up by an agreement with the government parties. Could it also mean that the Christian People's Party is bound up in the matter of price control when it comes to treatment in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1255	As for the representative, Omland, here suggests that we are bound by some agreement, the representative knows about an agreement that I do not know about at least. This will be the responsibility of the representative of Omland himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1260	There's no doubt that this has been an unsolved process. When something is inexorable, I think it's important to clean it up. Many of the country's main agricultural municipalities have said that price control is important to them. It is going to take some time before Stortinget receives a final treatment of the price control. It's not going to happen in ours. These municipalities now live a little in a legal error, and that's what I think is the most important one that helps to clean up. Then I would like to ask: Who are the municipalities in the country to deal with? Should they deal with the law, shall they relate to the letters of the Council of State, or shall they relate to the Storting's remark that this letter was not very clever to send? It's an uncertainty that I think it's a pity that one can't clean up today, when there's only one decision that's going to take place, and that one gets this back on a clean, legal track. Will the Christian People’s Party contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1269	Thank you for the question. As the representative of Pollestad, we are legislators. I think every legislator should say that the law is the most important thing. It's one of the two most important things that we do as elected representatives. It is to adopt law, and it is to adopt budget. Nothing is more important. I have therefore also given my answer to the representative Pollestad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1274	Obviously you have to follow the law, and that's what this case is about. That is why the proposal has been promoted, because the government has sent a letter saying that you do not have to follow the law. The majority say we should follow the law, but you don't want to instruct the government. This is not about humiliating a government council, this is about the fact that, among other things, The representative from the Right – Hill-Jensen – now was up here and said that this gives them the bluff in, they're not going to follow this, because they think that there's a majority on the Stortinget that's going to change the law. Then the government can change the law a little on its own first and go in that direction. That is why it is so serious when the representative now stands and describes the importance of price control for the agricultural industry, for recruitment and for those objectives. Then the Christian People's Party must be in charge now. That is now the responsibility that can be exercised, and that power lies in the Stortinge to say: No, you are not allowed to change the law until the law has been in the Stortinge and we have been with and held a hand on the steering wheel.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1281	Yes, the representative Karin Andersen is right that we felt it was unfortunate what the Council of State did and that it was unforgivable what the Council of State did. But then we want the Council of State to come to the legislative assembly on the matter, so that we get a clarification. The representative, Andersen, is very aware of where the political majority stands in this matter and in this Chamber on this change. There, I don't think there's any doubt inside this house or out in the country's municipalities. It is a majority to maintain control of prices with possible changes. That's the majority for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1286	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1289	The price control for agricultural properties is determined by Stortinget and laid down in the concession law. The issue we have to deal with today is not whether or not the price control should be part of the concession law. The proposal was promoted in response to the government sending a letter on 5 December last year to all the municipalities, county councils and state agricultural administration and requesting that no decisive emphasis be placed on price considerations in assessing whether a concession should be granted across the legal text. The central party is strongly critical of the fact that the government and the Minister of Agriculture and Food review a law given by the Stortinget, and that the government, without a majority in the UK, is pushing ahead with the outcome of the political process of changing the law. It is not like this, as Mr Bakke-Jensen has said earlier today, that when a majority has an intention to amend the law, one can only ignore the legislative process and do it in advance. That is not what is the Norwegian tradition of legislation. The hearing on the price control has also shown that there are very divided opinions on the matter. It's not a curative matter we're dealing with here. It is highly critical of the government to conduct policies in this way. It is difficult to see what kind of needs were underlying the need for this letter to be sent, and that one could not wait for a treatment in Stortinget. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State uses its own assessment in its own letter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee as a justification that the letter to the municipalities does not prejudge the legal proceedings of the Storting. For me, it's like asking the thief if he's stolen. I believe that the Council of State must take on board that it is a majority of the committee that states in the remarks that the letter from the government actually prejudges the legal proceedings of the Stortinge, and hopes that the Council of State will have such respect for a clear correction from the majority of the Stortinge that in the debate later on she will at least confirm that this letter should not have been sent. The centre lot is concerned that the price control must operate as intended. We have a pragmatic relationship with price control. We also made changes to it when we sat in the government offices ourselves. The councils have previously said that she is busy listening. I have therefore gone into the hearing opinions of the municipalities of Hå, Time and Klepp on Jären. The Minister of Agriculture should be aware that these are large agricultural municipalities. All three municipalities are right-headed. Klepp and the Municipality of Time refuse to cancel the price control in the hearing response, and Haå Municipality believes that the possible removal of the price control must be assessed together with other instruments in the concession law. Klepp municipality says quite precisely in its hearing opinions ‘the removal of price controls in the concession law will lead mainly to higher costs in the industry with the resulting higher production costs for consumers’.’ The abolition of price controls will primarily be a good thing for those who choose to leave agriculture. The Central Party believes that agricultural policy must be geared primarily towards those who want to be in the industry. I regret that we need this matter to be dealt with today, and believe that it comes as a result of the Council of State's wish to show action in favour of the interests of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1309	As others have said, price controls in agriculture are important. It is because without it many agricultural properties will be so expensive that recruitment is not possible. It is not possible to charge the cost of operating the use or otherwise. That's why we have it like that. It is clear that there is a restriction on purchases and sales, but there is part of the agreement concluded between those who own agricultural property and the common good food land in Norway is, and the state, where we regulate in some areas, and then we have an agricultural policy that makes it possible to operate agriculture in Norway, because it is so important. There is also a majority here in the United Kingdom who believe that there is a need for increased recruitment, while the proposals and measures we have seen from the government to now are about getting out of agriculture. There are some issues in which the price control has stopped in a strange way, and it's not like it's just in the agricultural administration that the management sometimes does strange things and wrongs. It's happened in many places. It should be capable of being corrected and not used as a justification for the entire institution to be removed or weakened in such a way that it does not fulfil its essential function today. Therefore, it was with great surprise that we saw that the government sent out this letter, which recommended to the municipalities as a decision-making authority that price should not be given decisive importance in assessing whether to grant a concession – one of the important prerequisites of the concession law. That means that the government says you shouldn't care about the law until you've changed the law. After today's debate, it seems that at least there is no reason for the major changes in the law, whether the representative from the Right is reasonably high and dark in his belief in it – or high and blue, it might be right to say. So a little visit to this with the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs being mentioned in a comment here. I'm just making it clear that it's only the Right Party and the Advance Party that are behind these remarks about what's been going on in the Control and Constitutional Committee. It is entirely possible to re-examine this matter in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, if it is now that the Council of State is not even willing today to say that this was inexcusable, and that the municipalities should comply with the law until the law is amended. It is important, because the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has the full opportunity to re-examine this matter, and that may be necessary. That's also why the role of the Left and Christian People's Party in this matter becomes very unclear to the others. So here you rotate a law that hasn't changed yet, and then you think it's okay that it's done, and it's called a humiliation of the council when the Storting as a legislative body says this isn't right. Then the Christian People's Party and the Left must also be involved in putting it in place when it is to be put in place. I want respect for the rounds of negotiations between the parties, and then we have to agree or disagree with the bill that comes to the Stortinget. Once the Storting has adopted it, of course the municipalities will follow it, in fact a little independent of what I have to think of it. That's the law to apply. Neither the government in itself nor a minority of the Storting can ask anyone to disregard the law until it is changed. This is not a recommendation for a policy in some area that is completely indifferent. The representative of the Christian People's Party was up here instead and said that power is now in the Stortinget. In this case, it seems that the cancellation is in Stortinget, because you don't want to use the power that you have, to say how things should be treated, that law should be observed until law is changed. I therefore expect the Christian People's Party and the Left to say that, because the Right has made it very clear at least that that principle has not been followed in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1325	I would like to start by saying that I agree with the proposers that laws should be followed. Within the matters for which I have a responsibility, it is one of my tasks to facilitate that. Today's debate is about the practice to be implemented by municipalities in concession cases that are dealt with after the letter of consultation has been sent out proposing that price controls be lifted and before the Storting has taken a decision on the issue of termination. The Ministry sent out a letter on this on 4 December last year, and it is the contents of this letter that the proposers are concerned about. I have noticed that the proposers state that the letter prejudges the treatment of Storting, and that it has created uncertainty in the municipalities. I disagree. In the Ministry's letter to the municipalities, the county councillors and the state agricultural administration on the practice of price control, it is recommended to the municipalities that the price agreed by the parties is not ‘assigned decisive importance in the assessment of whether or not to grant a concession’. I would like to point out that the recommendation is neither an instruction to the municipalities nor an invitation to act contrary to the applicable concession law. In the adoption of the concession law, the majority has opted for a solution in which Section 9 of the concession law provides guidance on a broad assessment of the case, where the price is one of many elements to be assessed. The preparatory work of the concession law currently in force includes, inter alia: express the obligation for law-enforcement practices to take account of changing assessments. The proposition says this: ‘The word is so liberal that it allows for development and change of an actual nature in technical, economic, social and other areas, including: with regard to needs and resources. It provides, among other things: playroom for changing perceptions and reassessments.’» Under various governments it has been common to give signals about the practice of the concession law by letter and circular. An example is a series of circulars developed under the then Minister of Agriculture Gunhild Øyågen in connection with the legislative changes that followed St.prp. No 8 for 1992-93 Developed agriculture. Another example is the circulars M-5/2003 and M-2/2004, which were drawn up in connection with the adoption of the new concession law in 2003 under former Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim. The current circular M-2/2009 on Concession and Housing was prepared by the then Minister of Agriculture Lars Peder Breck. Examples show that there are broad practices to give municipalities signals about the practice, and they also show that the signals can be based on different policy assessments. I would also like to stress that this is not the first time the Department is sending out signals about the practice of possible future legislative changes. As mentioned in my letter to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, in connection with the proposal to suspend the right of pre-emption in the concession law, the Ministry sent out two similar letters. This first letter was sent in February 2000 and before Stortinget's treatment of St. meld.nr. 19 for 1999-2000 — agricultural notification. This happened under the then Minister of Agriculture Kåre Gjønnes. The letter called on the local agricultural authority to provide an additional safety margin in order to ensure that pre-sales should produce a better result than can be achieved by the voluntary agreement. The call gave direction for the practice, but it was within the scope of the law, and did not thwart the discretion of the agricultural authorities. The second letter was sent out in May 2000, i.e. after the Stortingen had completed the processing of the farm message and accepted a change, but before the Stortingen had adopted a legislative change. The letter states: ‘It is underlined that the judgement to be exercised under the applicable law must reflect the current situation’.» In my letter of 6 January, which is attached to the position of the Business Committee, I have given a broad explanation of the legal aspects of the letter that was sent out, and I refer to the report there. In my own letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee dated 27 January of this year, I have shown that there is a lot of evidence that municipalities are operating price controls differently, and that the consequences of different practices and the uncertainty about whether price controls are going to go away could quickly reproduce in the market for the marketing of agricultural property. This could lead to reduced turnover. The size has on a number of occasions, for example: in the context of its treatment of Report. St. 9 for 2011-2012, was concerned with increasing the turnover of agricultural properties. I mean, among other things: on this basis that there was good reason to send a recommendation to the municipalities in line with the letter of the department. I wonder if the letter should have created uncertainty in the municipalities – at least until the uncertainty is greater with the letter than without it. The letter shows that the price control rule applies and that a specific assessment has to be made. In addition, the letter contains a recommendation that the practical exercise of discretion should take into account the fact that the price control has been proposed to be lifted. This is an actual situation, which the municipalities would have to deal with with with with or without a letter from the department. I have already pointed out that practice in the municipalities can be very different when assessing the price. I also perceive that many municipalities experience that the price control is difficult to handle. However, this is not about the ministry's letter, but about the rules as they are today, and these are the rules that I'd like to ask the Stortinge to cancel.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1350	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1353	This was not an article that brought more cleanness to this matter. At my discretion, the historical examples to which it was referred apply very much when new laws come and guidelines are written to explain how the law is to be understood. So here we are in a situation where we've been told that we want to cancel the price regulation, which is all over measure, after the signals that are coming, we don't have a majority in the Storting, and we want to prejudge. It's something quite different. It has a constitutional side, but it also has a very important side to the instrument itself. Now, the Council of State has the opportunity to provide clarity for all those who sit around and will deal with matters related to the concession law. I have basically just one simple question, which I ask the Council of State to answer yes or no. Is it so that the Council of State shares the opinion of the majority of the population that this is inexhaustible handling by her side?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1362	I believe that I explained quite thoroughly that this is a practice that has also been used before, even before the amendment of the law. I therefore believe that this is not inexcusable. It is such that the municipalities are free to deal with these matters. This was a recommendation that they should not place decisive emphasis on price. However, they shall consider five different aspects when dealing with such concession cases. So I have full confidence that the municipalities will deal with their concession matters in line with the law – it also states this letter – and that they make their judgements based on what each municipality believes is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1369	We've heard a five-minute post from the state council where she's commented a lot, but not the fact that a majority believes it's unbidden by the government to send letters to municipalities, county councils and SLF. That is what this matter is all about. It's not about what's happened in the past, and the Storting's reactions to it. What is crucial in this matter is that there is actually a majority who write in the comment that it was unyielding. So it's that a comment in the Biggest is not legally binding on the government, but the Council of State represents a minority government, which is dependent on political support in the Biggest. Then my question to the Council of State is whether she feels politically obliged to take into account the comment that Stortinget has made, and to clear up the impurity that the majority says to send the letter, was.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1378	First, I just have to say that I think the municipalities are doing very well to deal with their concessional matters without sending them a new letter. I believe it is very clear in that letter that it is a recommendation; it is not a requirement or a requirement that they should ignore the price. So, of course, I have noticed the Storting's comments, but I believe that today I have argued that this is something that has been done before, that there is room in the law to send out a recommendation that does not violate the law, but that, on the other hand, it is recommended not to place decisive emphasis on price, as one of the elements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1385	What strikes me is that when the Council of State is going to explain why she sent the letter, it has so little meaning, it's so marginal, what happens. At the same time – when the Council of State explains the need for the letter – it will be of great importance and will solve some problems. So here's a mismatch in the rationale, based on what you're going to explain. I also don't think the council was clear enough in what way she would take into account that someone thought it was unyielding. I repeat the question from my post: Can the Council of State later see that this letter should never have been sent, when one gets the type of criticism in Stortinget that one has received in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1392	I notice, as I have said several times, what Stortinget writes in his comments, but I believe that the municipalities are fully capable of dealing with these concession cases. I believe that this letter was not a requirement for the municipalities to ignore the price, but it was a recommendation that they should not place decisive emphasis on the price, and there are two different things. Then there was a starting point for sending this letter that we were afraid that the turnover of agricultural properties would stop. That is why it was important for us to send that letter. But I think that the municipalities are very well able to deal with these matters – also in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1399	If the municipalities are so well able to deal with these matters with the full confidence of the Council of State, the letter is quite unnecessary in itself. The point of sending the letter must be that you want to influence the person who is going to make decisions, in a special direction. It is in that direction that the Council of State has warned that she wants changes in the law, but this has now said that there is a great deal of uncertainty about whether you want those changes at all. Either it has to be that this letter has been sent in order to take account of it and therefore change the practice before changing the law, or then it is well sent for some political reasons, where you just want to flag a case without taking into account or meaning anything. If that's the last thing that's going on, it should be the simplest thing in the world for the Council of State today to say: This was unforgiving, I ask the municipalities to ignore this until we've changed the law. It should be possible for the Council of State, which is now saying that she trusts the municipalities in this matter, to give notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1406	In the case of concession cases, there are five factors to be taken into account: first, before the agreed price corresponds to a socially sound price development, secondly, whether the purpose of the acquirer will be to ensure the location of the site, thirdly, whether the acquisition involves an operationally sound solution, fourthly, whether the acquirer is considered fit to operate the property, and fifthly whether the acquisition takes account of an overall resource management and the cultural landscape. These five reasons are what you have to make an opinion about. That letter was a recommendation not to place decisive emphasis on price, and I believe that it is good within the legislation that is, and that the municipalities are well able to deal with these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1411	In the debate followed by the Council of State, it has become very clear that the High Representative here believes that there is no reason to take any account of the majority comment that has now been made by the United Kingdom, which is criticised, whereas representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party, which is the basis of the government for obtaining a majority in the United Kingdom, consider this to be critical. Does this mean that it is the government’s – Right and Advance Party – view that is the government’s conclusion and that one should go further, or is it the conclusion of the majority in the Grand Duchy, that this was critical, from which the government is to work? Which of those foundations is it that the Council of State is now going to continue to work on?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1417	Of course, I will continue with what Stortinget now decides, and that is that we will not send a new letter. But I notice, of course, the other comments that have come from the committee. Then I am concerned that we will come up with this matter before the summer, so that the Storting can start dealing with the issue of price control and get a decision on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1424	In my opinion, not to place a decisive emphasis on the price instrument is to set aside the price control institution. If it is not to be of decisive importance, it does not have a significant weight in concession cases, so it is important to do so. Then it's clearly a rescue plank from the Council of State that she argues that this is just a recommendation and no instructions – I see she's nodding. But is it that one believes that a government council and a government can recommend the administration of a law that is contrary to the law? It is no more deserving to recommend to municipalities to act contrary to the law than to use instructions. My question is, will it be easier to recommend to those who are going to deal with the law, if not to do so, than to instruct them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1433	As I said, the big difference is that you're going to ignore the price as an element, and to recommend not to place decisive emphasis on price. That's the point of the letter that went to the municipalities. I believe that there was a letter that was necessary, because we were afraid that the turnover of agricultural property stopped. I am pleased that the municipalities now seem to handle these matters in a good way. It is the political majority in each municipality who often decide whether one has a liberal attitude or whether one has a more restrictive position in concession cases. Therefore, I believe that there is a need to look at the entire price control, and that matter will be promoted by the government before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1438	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1443	It is not right, as some representatives claim in this debate, that this is not an important issue. This is a very important fundamental question, because it's about the relationship between government and expansion, and it's about understanding the balance between them. Nor is it right, as some representatives claim, that this is done to plague the Council of State, Listhaug. This is done simply to ensure that the government from a minority position understands that they must comply with the provisions, laws and decisions of the Storting. It has not happened in this case. That's what's going on. And it's quite obvious that a majority in this hall has that opinion. It has also been very clear in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and it is in the context in which I participate in this discussion, because in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs there was always a large majority who understood that this was a quite obvious breach. The examples used by the Council of State in this debate that this has happened before have been refuted — these are not relevant examples. I have sat and heard the whole debate to hear if the Council of State was willing to show some kind of humility. I'm afraid she hasn't. It causes me to say here now that I want to take the initiative that this matter is raised again in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs on the first occasion. It is also triggered by the representative Bakke-Jensens – I may be the club for this expression, but I say it anyway – a delicate way to talk about a very serious political matter. I can't accept it as the head of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and we have to move on to the matter from that point of view. For this matter it is quite obvious that the government has run twice. It's an honest thing that Councillor Listhaug has a different political view of how agriculture is going to develop – I stress it, it's an honest thing. But it is not possible to take turns in relation to the majority of the Storting. What emerges from the letters to the Control and Constitutional Committee is that it is presented to the political platform of the Solberg Government, which says that there is a need for change in this area. Then you have to come to the Stortinget with the law and not pre-shoot it. Besides, and it's going to be the last thing I say, it's about the government doing this in other areas as well – I refer to the snowmobile case and the traffic law. We can't have a development where a minority government operates this way. They must come here, have the matter discussed and voted on. Then we are clear and respect what is the conclusion, but not when trying to circumvent the law without having the majority of the Storting. That is why we have to get back to this matter. The councils are now nodding to me, and it's an expression that there's absolutely a need to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1450	We're going to do this pretty short. I didn't tell you from this pulpit that you have to ignore the law. I have said that my perception of what the Council of State has done is that it is within the law – the law provides room for discretion. Then to the representative of Kolberg, who mentions my post as a delicate consideration of the matter. The dexterity here has been in the efforts of the red-green representatives to extract three lines from the comments and to bring them forward as the only thing that has been said in this matter. But the overall discussion in the committee and the vote result says that there is a majority in favour of attaching the matter to the Minutes. The right and left have stated that they will be constructive, and you wait for what is really the matter – that there will be a law to the Stortinget. In my opinion, the difficulty here lies in the fact that the opposition uses three lines where one agrees on a small part of the case and claims that it is the whole thing in this case. But the committee procedure and the committee's position show that the majority say that one should be constructive and move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1457	The previous speaker suggests that this matter is much more than the procedure we have seen from the Council of State, related to the letter sent in December, and that there is much more to the discussion about price regulation as such, as the Council of State and the government parties have warned to return to Stortinget, and that we then pick out some lines. That's not right. What this proposal is about is precisely the procedure we received from the Ministry of Agriculture before Christmas, when the letter went out. The underlying proposal for document 8 is, of course, precisely to clarify to the municipalities and county councils that it is the provisions of the concession law that apply. So the proposal in this case is not about making changes to this law, which we are waiting for will be dealt with when it has to come to Stortinget. That is why the lines pointed out by the representative, Bakke-Jensen, are extremely important in the matter, where a majority says that it is ‘unnecessary for the government to send letters to municipalities, county councils and the SLF to disregard Section 9, first paragraph of the concession law’. It says a majority in Stortinget, relating to this matter, relating to the heart of the matter. In this way, it is with some wonder that I see that the humility which is to be felt to be lacking towards a majority in the Grand Duchy in a matter that the majority sees as very important. In this way I share the views of the representative, Mr Hemdal, in her introduction to the debate here today, where she points out that to her it is the law that is important that it is at the top. And it is part of Parliament's right to tackle it that way. It is in this house that you decide how the country should be governed. If the government can't deal with it in many ways, you have a brief life in sight. It is true that both when we sail and when we rotate, we believe that it should be cleaned up, so that the invitation to make a clarification to the municipalities should not be remarkably difficult to achieve when you have a majority in the Stortinget who believe that it is unfair proceedings. Once again, I encourage actors to contribute to it. Then it points out that you can clean up the future treatment of price regulation. I wonder about that, but if that is the case, I have a question to the Council of State that I am asking her to answer. It is announced that this matter will come in the spring session. It will be important that it then comes quickly, so that we can deal with this question before the Storting takes a summer vacation. My question, to which I ask for an answer, is, When does that law come? And do you assume that Stortinget will have time to deal with the matter before Stortinget takes a vacation, so that the municipalities will have clarity about what is actually the law in force?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1471	I agree with the previous speakers that this debate has shown that one takes lightly the relatively harsh criticisms made by the majority in the comments and that one does not understand the seriousness of the matter. Then it is wrong, as the representative Bakke-Jensen has claimed several times, that although a large majority believe that there are good reasons to look at the regulation of the price control in the concession law again, there is no clear signal whatsoever to change the law and the practice of it in the way that the Storting has adopted. I also react to the fact that the contributions from Bakke-Jensen are superficial, short and easy, and I note that one of the government parties is not allowed to participate in the debate. The representative of Kolberg was aware that the Council of State has not sufficiently taken up the comment that it says, and I notice that new rounds are being announced in the Control and Constitutional Committee. I think it is a pity that this case is going to happen again, and when you see that the comment that we have written has not had the effect of a wish, it is probably a solution. The case can be resolved by a majority ensuring that the proposal for decisions proposed by the Labour Party and the Central Party in the case actually obtains a majority in the Stortinget, so that one does not have a situation that is unjust and which is raised beyond any doubt that Norwegian municipalities are uncertain as to how to proceed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1480	The matter comes to Stortinget in mid-June, according to plan, so it is up to Stortinget to decide how quickly it can handle it. There'll be one coming back to the committee. I would also like to stress that I do not take lightly the criticism that I have received, but I believe that it is also the basis to note the statement given, where I refer to several other cases under both the Bondevik I government, the Bondevik II government and other governments where one has sent a letter to the municipalities by recommendation, before the law has been passed. Finally, I would like to say that the recommendation sent to the municipalities can choose to follow, or they can choose to ignore it. It'll be up to the local authorities to decide. I look forward to the issue of price control coming to Stortinget and that we will have to deal with it and discuss it in full width on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1489	The President shall draw attention to Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, in particular to the Committee's consideration of proposals for representatives, which clearly states: ‘In all other cases, a statement stating that the proposal for a representative is annexed to the Protocol, as appropriate, to other proposals.’;» The President says this because this was a change that was made in the Rules of Procedure in the autumn of 2013, as far as the President remembers, and that is what is the usual procedure. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1502	We are then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1512	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Knut Storberget on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the municipalities and county councils to comply with the provisions of the Law on Price Control and to await the processing of the Storting before implementing any amendments to the Law on Concession.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-08.ana.ud2433e1549	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
