ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e85	The representative of Arild Grande, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. A number of permit applications are available: From the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Helge André Njåstad and from the Group of the Workers' Party on the Permit of the Representative Stein Erik Lauvås – both from 5 April to 12 April in order to take part in the World Urban Forum in Colombia. From representatives Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, Sonja Mandt and Roy Steffensen on leave from 7 April to 9 April – all to participate in the Nordic Council's ceremony on Iceland. From representatives Lise Christoffersen, Inbjørg Godskesen, Tore Hagebakken, Frank J. Jenssen, Kristin Ørmen Johnsen, Ingjerd Schou and Snorre Serigstad The elections on leave from 7 April to 11 April and from the representative Hans Fredrik Grövan on leave in the days of 8 and 9 April – all to attend the 2014 session of the Council of Europe Parliament, second part, in Strasbourg. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the Province of East-Agder: Lene Langemyr 8-10. April For West Agder County: Torhild Bransdal 8-9. April For Buskerud County: Laila Gustavsen 8.-10. ==References====External links== April For Hordaland County: Laila Marie Reiertsen 8–10. April For Uppland County: Kjersti Stenseng 8.-10. April For Rogaland County: Kari Raustein 8-9. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website April and Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik 8-10. April For Vestfold County: Steinar Gullvåg 8-9. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== April
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e214	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sylvi Graham. – Other proposals are not available, and Sylvi Graham is unanimously elected as President-in-Office of the current sitting. The representative Iselin Nybø will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e221	On behalf of the representatives of Trine Skei Grande, Pál Farstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure a satisfactory commitment to recruitment positions in the long-term research plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e226	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e229	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of the Ivar Odnes, Per Olaf Lundteg and myself to improve the framework conditions for organisationally-owned cultural buildings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e234	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e253	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the debate be organised in the usual manner, except that the number of lines is limited up to seven lines after each post. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e258	The background to this case is the Riksrevision's study of the State's work on CO2 management. An overall committee agrees that we need to set bold targets in climate policy, and that the development of new technologies is a key instrument in climate policy, both nationally and internationally. There was also some background for the Riksrevision to start their studies of the country’s work on CO2 management. The first objective of the studies was to assess how the Ministry of Oil and Energy ensured that the Storting's objective of CO2 capture and storage was achieved. The aim was also to shed light on the use of resources and progress in projects. The survey covers the period 2006 to 2012. Over the period 2007–2012, the country has spent 7.4 billion. kr for the CO2 management projects. The government has spent about 5 billion. kr for the planning and execution of the test centre, and nearly 2 billion have been carried out. kr for the planning of full scale CO2 capture and storage. In this calculation, therefore, the costs of full scale are not up to the termination and subsequent costs. Those costs will only be incurred until 2012. This is big sums. The National Audit Office pointed out in its report that the high costs represented a risk that the return on investment would not be proportionate to the economic effort. But even I think it's worth spending a lot of money if you're really trying to achieve the goal first, and especially if you're actually reaching the goal. It is small sums to consider the seriousness of climate change. But it's huge sums of money if it stays standing like a waste of public money. In this light, the National Audit Office's investigation revealed a number of alarming findings. In particular, the Riksrevision found that there have been few tools for good cost management and rapid progress in the fishing projects in Mongstad. It is also alarming that concluded agreements have limited the country's governance and that it has been challenging for Gassnova to take care of the country's interests. These are very strong facts that you can't talk away from. There has been a thorough examination of the Mongstad project in the Committee. In addition to the inspection to Mongstad, the Committee held three days of inspection hearings. A large public gallery has been invited and participated in the hearings. I refer to the setting, where there is a chronological overview of who participated. The Committee decided on some overall issues to be taken into account for the hearings. The issues are presented, but among the main questions were: ‘Is there any aspect of the country’s handling of full-scale capture and storage of CO2 that has been cumbersome? Did the Government of Stoltenberg II take the necessary steps – legal, economic and political – to ensure that full-scale CO2 installations could be realised?’ Even I believe this has been one of the core elements of the committee's studies. The majority's comments on this matter are from a solid, large and broad majority consisting of five of the eight parties of the Grand Duchy: Left, Right, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and the Green Party. There is no time frame to give the whole background to the Mongstad case. Then the lines had to be withdrawn to the Bondevik I administration and the start of the gas power case. But in order to understand the close relationship in the Mongstad case, we must at least return to the then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who in his New Year speech to the Norwegian people in 2007 said the following: ‘Norway assumes a pioneer role when we have decided that the gas power plant in Mongstad will have the greenhouse gas CO2 clean-up. We shall make this possible." Then followed the reference to President Kennedy in the speech, and how Stoltenberg and his government would succeed in what was supposed to be our nation's, Norway's, moon landing. It did not take long since 2007, and especially after the scrapping and during the hearing, before Stoltenberg in the media tried to relay history completely differently, as if the moon landing was not the cleaning of the gas power plant at Mongstad, the full-scale project, and as if the moon landing had actually happened to the test centre. It is therefore necessary to remember the first two sentences of the New Year – and I quote again: ‘Norway assumes a pioneer role when we have decided that the gas power plant in Mongstad will have the greenhouse gas CO2 clean-up. We shall make this possible." This should be our nation's moon landing, no doubt. Purification of the gas power plant with full-scale capture and storage was the objective itself. Therefore, it does not serve former Prime Minister Stoltenberg specifically, or others, to honour trying to twist history afterwards. The majority in the committee considered the resignation of the Prime Minister to the Norwegian people in the New Year's Eve to be unusually clear and expected the red-green government to do what it could to fulfill what was promised. This has not happened. On the contrary, they went back on the promise, changed the strategy, and left the pioneer role on the road, until the whole thing crashed in September 2013. The strategy and focus for Mongstad ranged from the ‘fastest possible’ realization of capture and storage to the ‘costiest’ and ended with ‘no clean-up’. And we can see that the moon landing project was stopped only after it was clear that the red-green parties had lost the election in 2013, but before the government change had taken place. The criticism in the National Audit Office's report and the reference to the weaknesses in the implementation of the CO2 capture and storage project at Mongstad are neither new nor surprising. Most of the weaknesses identified by the National Audit Office have been pointed out and discussed in the Storting several times in recent years. I am therefore not familiar with the statements made by former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in the Committee's hearing on unanimity and broad support in the Stortinget for development and progress in the Mongstad project. The most central instrument for ensuring progress in the full-scale capture and storage of CO2 at Mongstad was the emission permit granted to the CHP plant. We made that clear from the Left when the agreement came up in Stortingen and the permit was to be granted. The State's own competent authority in the field, the State's pollution monitoring body, now the Environment Directorate, recommended, in line with the Left, in 2006, to impose full-scale capture and storage requirements for CO2 from the first day. The reason given was that otherwise there would be a real possibility that CO2 capture would not come into place as intended. It is easy to see that this was also good advice that the government should have followed, but that it chose to skepticate. A requirement for full scale clean-up from the day one would give the right incentives to realise the project. Unfortunately, the Ministry of the Environment and the Swedish Environment Councils chose to disregard this professional recommendation. The Mongstad case has been politically controversial since its inception in 2006. The full-scale capture and storage schedule for CO2 in Mongstad was a central part of the government’s political compromise that resulted in Statoil’s concession to build the CHP plant in 2006 without cleaning from day one. The 2006 Implementation Agreement was contrary to the Soria Moria Declaration, which was the basis for the red-green government cooperation in the autumn of 2005, and went across SV’s demand for all new gas power plants to be cleaned from day one. The very detailed emissions permit from the Ministry of the Environment should be a guarantee that clean-up would come in line with the set timetable. The central importance of the emissions permit for the project was underlined when the implementation agreement was presented to the Storting, where it stated: ‘The Environment Ministry’s emissions permit of 12 October 2006 and the implementation agreement between the State and Statoil on CO2 management at Mongstad form the starting point for the construction of CO2 capture installations at Mongstad.’ The decision of the government of Stoltenberg to postpone the investment decision for the full-scale plant in May 2010 created a heated debate both in the public and in the Stortinget. A motion of censure was made when an overall opposition felt that the then oil and energy minister, Terje Riis-Johansen, had failed to comply with the information obligation to the Stortinget in the run-up to the government's decision to postpone the investment decision for the full-scale project. The opposition considered that the Stortinget had not been particularly informed of serious professional counter-conceptions to the government’s timetable for and implementation of the full-scale project. This was a matter that the government had been made aware of through a number of reports from Gassnova from 28 January 2009 until the postponement decision was taken over one year later. Also at that time, there was an intermediate choice between the time when the government became aware that the project had to be postponed and the time when the postponement decision was formally taken by the government and published. The Mistletoe proposal was promoted by an overall opposition in the context of the review of the revised budget for 2010. Furthermore, the government's management of the emissions permit for the CHP plant in Mongstad has been the subject of repeated debate in Stortinget. It is therefore not right, as Stoltenberg has said, that there has been unanimity and broad support in the Stortinget for development and progress in the Mongstad project. In connection with the emissions permit, I will also refer to Erik Solheim's letter to the Energy and Environment Committee of 12 May 2010, where he writes: ‘The government wants to implement full scale CO2 management in Mongstad, and it is therefore not appropriate to withdraw the emissions permit. Conditions and deadlines in an emission permit under the pollution law may be amended if this is deemed necessary when framework conditions and assumptions change.’;» Such signals undermine the credibility of Norwegian environmental authorities. The terms of the emissions permit, which would ensure the progress of full-scale clean-up operations and which would be risked behind the mirror if the parties to the agreement did not comply with their obligations, were made a pragmatic inventory of responsibilities that could be changed in the event of changes in framework conditions or assumptions. Consistent enforcement of the emissions permit is in reality the only credible instrument left by the government to ensure full scale clean-up in Mongstad. It is worth noting that, although the emissions permit for the cogeneration unit states that it is to be facilitated for the capture and storage of CO2, it was not done. This would entail additional costs to build the capture plant because one had to rebuild the cogeneration plant. This was a further weakness in the implementation agreement. Gassnova said during the hearing: ‘Based on a technical, industrial, non-profit-making situation, combined power plants and capture plants would be planned’. In contrast, Jens Stoltenberg said in the hearing that full-scale cleaning from day one would ‘expose the CHP plant for many, many years’, and that Statoil ‘could not accept such an agreement’. This shows that the capture and storage of CO2 was not the only objective of the agreement, but that it was equally important to allow Statoil to build the CHP plant in Mongstad. Finally, with regard to the ratio of the emissions permit, I would like to point out that the Riksrevision report and the committee hearings have shown that the government makes little use of the terms of the emissions permit to ensure progress in the field of capture and storage. The real medium of the press hollowed out the government itself, which is to criticise. It has been repeated, and will probably also be in the debate today, that the Stortinge has voted in favour of the full-scale plant in Mongstad through all the proposals and budgets that the government has submitted. I have to link some comments to everything now. From the time the Mongstad CHP concession was granted and the implementation agreement was concluded in 2006, the government asked for alternative projects for full-scale CO2 capture and storage. For example, I can. point out that, in the context of the 2007 Implementation Agreement, the Stortinget gave the Government the following instructions: ‘The Committee asks the Government to facilitate the development of further CO2 management projects, where technology development, demonstration and qualification of Norwegian technology can start rapidly.’ Also in Report. St. 9 for 2010–2011, Full-scale CO2 management, it was stated that Gassnova would carry out an investigation work aimed at contributing to a broad and up-to-date monitoring of the scope for full-scale capture and storage of CO2 beyond the project in Mongstad, the so-called CCS capability study. The results of this work were to be part of the government's work on the climate communication and the government's work on CO2 capture and storage. However, the work on the CCS capability study was delayed and therefore did not form part of the government’s work on the climate notification, as the government announced in the Report. St. 9 for 2010–2011. The size, through the treatment of the 2012 Climate Communication, therefore gave the government a mandate to extend and finalise the CSS capability study, so that it would be possible to decide on current projects for full-scale CO2 capture and storage beyond Mongstad. I note that the government of Stoltenberg did not come back to Stortinget at any time with an investigation into alternative projects for full-scale CO2 capture and storage beyond Mongstad – despite repeated requests from the Stortinget to carry out such an investigation in the years 2007-2013, despite the fact that the Stortinget's ambition to realise at least one full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020 was based on the assumption that such an investigation would be carried out and submitted to Stortinget as soon as possible. In addition, I would like to clarify, on behalf of the Left, that we thought that a cogeneration plant would not be built on Mongstad without simultaneous cleaning from day one. I would also like to make it clear that the Left already in the 2013 state budget went against further transfers to the full-scale project in Mongstad, since it was already clear at that time which way this would go. The left-hand side thought that it was better to look at alternative projects, as has been shown to be correct. I spend so much time on this because, in the light of the information provided by the government, the Storting shared the goal of achieving full-scale installations by 2020, and supported the government in this, neither can nor should it be used by the red-green politicians as evidence that there have been no critical objections to the project. It's on the verge of deliberate attempted history falsification. And it's been tried by some representatives. In his hearing with Jens Stoltenberg, he justified the completion of the full-scale project at Mongstad as follows: ‘There are several reasons why we chose not to continue cleaning the emissions from the CHP plant at Mongstad. Firstly, costs would be significantly higher than previously estimated. When the project was first launched, the preliminary, uncertain, rough estimate was that it would cost about 5 billion. kr. Now the estimate is close to 25 billion. kr. Secondly, the emissions from the installation are significantly lower than previously estimated. Originally, emissions were about 1 million tonnes of CO2 per year. Now emissions are about half a million tonnes of CO2 per year — i.e. whereas, while costs are fivefold, emissions are halved. This means that the environmental benefit in relation to costs has been greatly reduced.’ Information provided, including: from Gassnova, during the Committee's further hearings, revealed major weaknesses in Stoltenberg's explanation, particularly in terms of costs. Former Chairman Johan Nic. In the same hearing, violence expressed the following opinion on the estimate of between 20 and 25 billion. kr: ‘It was extremely high in relation to other types of projects that we had knowledge of at the time. This led to a work process, coordination and streamlining of the project, with the commitment that Statoil had received in the emissions permit. Thus, in effect, the 25 billion disappeared. kr, in my opinion». And he went on to say, ‘We really do not yet know what the final cost would be, because now it was a job towards 2014, the so-called DG2, where to get the first new budget allocation, and towards 2016 when to make a decision. But we don't have these numbers, just to clarify the 25 billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is only to be noted that former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, in the hearing of the Committee, as the reason for the government's decision to stop the full-scale plant in Mongstad, operated with a cost estimate which, according to the state's own company, Gassnova, no longer exists. The amount of 25 billion. kr, to which Stoltenberg referred, came first as a rough estimate for project design from Statoil's master plan in 2009. Then included the amount of CO2 capture from the two turbines of the CHP plant and from the cracker at the refinery, in total more than 2 million tonnes of CO2. In Report. St. 9 for 2010–2011 remained the same, but the content changed to reduced CO2 capture installations and storage costs. I also find that the red-green government chose to stop the full-scale project only a few months before the next decision time, also called DG2. At this stage, a new and up-to-date cost estimate based on the project design that was then being worked on, a cost estimate that is reason to believe would be much lower than what Jens Stoltenberg operated on in the hearing. I have also noticed that the red-green government chose not to involve Gassnova in the decision to stop the full-scale project. The current Chairman of Gassnova, Einar Steensnæs, confirmed in the Committee's hearing that Gassnova was never asked by the Ministry whether to terminate the full-scale project or whether it should continue. It's very strange, a lot of this, how the outgoing government has been doing. The Red-Green Government decided to publish the decision to close the full-scale project at Mongstad on 20 September 2013. Then a joint press release was sent out by the then oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe and the then Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhell, who began with the following section: ‘Collection and storage of CO2 is a central part of the government’s climate action. In order to strengthen the investment, work is now being done on CO2 management. Full scale CO2 capture at Mongstad is phased out and replaced by a CO2 capture and storage programme.’;» Furthermore, as a quote from then Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell, it says: ‘We are now at a crossroads where we have to assess whether the full-scale project should be continued in Mongstad. The Government has come to the conclusion that it is better to open up to other potential projects that can be realised by 2020». In the hearing on 4 February this year, when former Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell was challenged as to whether the press release gave a true and correct picture of the situation, the representative Solhjell replied: ‘I would say that at that time – and now – my assessment, as I have said, was that the chance to succeed in a full-scale project by 2020 and to move on with the Norwegian CCS effort would increase if we outlined the strategy, established a strategy where we tried to find another facility or other methods, find a facility in Norway on which we can have a full-scale scale, and strengthen some other aspects of that commitment.’ When Solhjell was asked what alternative projects he and the government had in mind when the decision was taken to stop full scale at Mongstad, he replied: "I don't want to go into that right now. It was perfectly conscious that we did not submit a project." The solid majority of the Committee, consisting of five out of eight parties, considers the press release of the then state councils Ola Borten Moe and Bård Vegar Solhjell to be highly misleading and suitable for misleading readers of the facts of the case. The government of Stoltenberg’s work with full-scale CO2 capture and storage ended with complete disaster both at Mongstad, Kårstø and other possible sites. And there was not a single concrete alternative project for full-scale installations when the government left the offices. It is certainly the case that the two state councils, Ola Borten Moe and Solhjell, have now left the attempt to produce the final scrapping of the full-scale plant in Mongstad as a strengthening of the commitment to the capture and storage of CO2, is critical. I will also link some comments to openness and transparency. It has been difficult to get an overview and an overview of the case complex. I understand that part of the project contains commercial, confidential information that is not desirable for the public. In matters of such great public interest and which cost so much, I must nevertheless stress that publicity and transparency are particularly important, and that the state must endeavour to maximise public awareness. Although information on the cost of the country has been available, figures have not been transparent and verifiable. For example, in this context, it may be pointed out that until the hearing of the Committee there was uncertainty about the estimate of costs of between 20 and 25 billion. kr. This sum first appeared in Statoil’s Master Plan in 2009 and has been the current cost estimate until the end of the project in 2013. However, the actual measures for which it is calculated in the estimate have changed over time, so that crackers, one or two gas turbines and the question of transport and storage have at different times been out or within the cost estimate. Greater transparency and clarity around such elementary parts of such a comprehensive and technically complex project is essential for controlling progress by the Storting. This is particularly true of a project of such public interest and launched as a measure to clean Norway’s largest greenhouse gas industry. It must be expected that the voters will be able to follow the basic progress more closely than has been the case for the capture and storage of CO2 in Mongstad. I think the government should have given a more realistic account of the project's future after the cost estimate of 25 billion. kr was found in Statoil’s master plan in 2009. The project, and the objective of cutting Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, would have benefited from a real debate on how to significantly reduce costs and that decisions on the future of the project were taken earlier. It is also worth noting that there has been no independent quality assurance of estimates and plans. The majority of the Committee questions whether the actual decision on the scrapping of the Mongstad project had been taken before the revised budget 2013. In the revised budget in 2013, the government of the United Kingdom announced that they would devote more money to the full-scale project. Reference to Prop. 149 S for 2012–2013, where it reads: ‘On this basis, the funds for the full scale project are proposed to be increased by a net of 35 million. $806 million. $841 million. crowns in 2013.’» In this context, I will refer to Innst. S. No 210 for 2002-2003, where a unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs decided on the disclosure requirement: ‘The Committee would argue that the government must be obliged to make serious professional counter-representations appear in the case even if they are contrary to the Government’s proposal. Furthermore, the government must be responsible for disclosing whether uncertainty information is involved.’;» And on the other hand, ‘The Committee will also underline the government’s obligation to provide important information that it receives after the issue has been brought before the Storting.’ Neither the former Prime Minister Stoltenberg nor the former State Councils meeting in the Committee's hearings have provided information that would require the government to actually decide to complete the full-scale project in Mongstad at a much earlier date than in September 2013. This together with the absence of new information on the project itself after the 2013 revised budget – which neither Stoltenberg nor previous government councils could provide any response to in the hearing – questions the actual decision of the outgoing government. I will also be allowed to link some comments to the Technology Center in Mongstad. The Technology Centre shall contribute to technological development for increased global deployment of CO2 capture installations. The aim is to qualify and test technologies, gain experience and contribute to the dissemination of CO2 capture and storage solutions. The National Audit Office points out in its report that the test centre has been realised with a high level of ambition and high standards, but that high costs may reduce interest in increased industrial participation. The National Audit Office therefore recommends ensuring the long-term use of the test centre through, for example, the Ministry. to consider further measures to reduce operating costs and to motivate wider industrial participation. I look forward to up-to-date information on the work to reduce the operating costs of the TCM in future budget proposals. I would like to conclude by saying something about the way forward. Although the full-scale project was complex, the original objectives for full-scale carbon capture and storage at Mongstad were realistic. But it's quite clear that the Storting's original goal of full-scale capture and storage of CO2 in Mongstad, known as the moon landing, has not been achieved. A project that was supposed to capture and store up to 2 million tonnes of CO2 per year has not been able to store any CO2 at all. I would like to point out that an overall committee has noticed that the Riksrevision believes that a clarification of the legal and organisational framework for the transport and storage of CO2 is a prerequisite for putting in place the full scale of the capture and storage project. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry strengthen its efforts to establish a legal and commercial framework for the transport and storage of CO2. The Committee agrees and expects the Ministry to follow up this recommendation. The Committee also considers that although the Storting has joined the government’s proposal to scrape the Mongstad project, strengthening the state’s efforts to control costs and making effective progress on any new project is crucial. It is an important task for Norway to contribute to reducing costs related to the capture and storage of CO2 from industry and fossil power generation, but the majority of the Committee believes that there should be a completely different process for the selection of full-scale sewage treatment plants in Norway. The majority, consisting of members from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Green Party and the Left, have come to the conclusion, after an overall overall assessment, where a number of points and conditions have been pointed out, that it is necessary and appropriate to propose to the Stortinget to take decisions on criticism. There are several issues isolated that alone are enough to express criticism of the outgoing government's work on CO2 management. The report of the National Audit Office is in itself a powerful diet, and five out of eight large-scale parties believe that all these issues together are so serious and serious that the majority of the Committee – all except the representatives of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV, belonging to the previous government – considers it necessary to submit proposals to the Stortingen to take decisions on such criticism. Finally, I would therefore like to recommend the proposal for a decision which the majority is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e591	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e594	I strongly dispute the claim that the Storting has not supported the work of the government of Stoltenberg with the Mongstad plant. I'll come back to it in my post. What the first line of the representative Raja is about is that he is – as he has explained – very hard behind the proposal for criticism of the government. That's how he justified it. What is an indisputable fact is that the two government parties, the Advance Party and the Right, have also stood behind the government of Stoltenberg throughout this course. What is my question, or my reasoning, to the case-rapporteur, is: What does he think about the proposal he is now making at the head of, also affecting the two government parties for which his party is a supporting party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e603	I think it is right that the parties Right and the Advance Party themselves present their views. I'm assuming that's what they're going to do. We believe that the proposal for decisions promoted by the majority is necessary and correct. It's not that it's desirable to adopt criticism, it's not something you like to do. However, when so much money has been spent on a project with which there has been no cost control, as the Riksrevision report refers to, this is necessary. I note that the representative of Kolberg starts by repeating what I tried to start with when I had the word, that there are attempts to falsify history when trying to give the impression that there have been no objections to the project. I gave a thorough account of this. This is not an opportunity to go through within the time frame of 1 minute. I'm referring to what I said from the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e610	I now notice that the representative Raja does not respond to my problem at all. It's convenient, because this is a very central part of the problem that is being discussed here today. It is quite obvious that the Storting – except that there have been discussions, I will come back to my post – has almost unanimously ended up about the Mongstad plant's progress and closure. His own party also voted for this conclusion, without any criticism being promoted in this Chamber just a few months ago. So now it is a so-called overall opposition – or position, if you want – that promotes this criticism. I ask once again, and as he did not want to reply in the first place, it is absolutely necessary to clarify what is the parliamentary situation: how does the representative Raja think that this criticism also affects the current right and right parties of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e617	The representative of Kolberg is allowed to interpret, and his interpretation is on his own account. With regard to the Left, I would say – as I explained, if the representative of Kolberg heard clearly after – that we already decided in the 2013 budget that the project should be stopped, because we saw the way it was going. There is also some criticism that the government should have completed this project much earlier – when you saw which way it was going. You didn't. They have chosen to keep alive a project based on prestige and party-strategic reasons. What perhaps the representative of Kolberg should focus on is what makes you not even see anything critical about the Riksrevision report. I expect the representative of Kolberg to assume that the Riksrevision, as the body it is, makes thorough professional assessments and conclusions, and that the report in its form and what emerges there is quite crushing for the representative of Kolberg's own government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e624	In that case, the Stortinget is in a situation where we can see that the rapporteur of the case is unable to explain the consequences of the proposal for criticism against the two parties to the government. It can now be underlined and noted – as this answers. That's what we're going to do over the day. The second issue that needs to be addressed is the claim that the government had actually taken a decision earlier than the government itself stated. I have to say that is a very strange form of running a wholesaler. There is no proof at any point that there is any truth in the claims he has made today from the pulpit, and I have to ask Raja: on what point is it such that he has evidence of the claim that the government of Stoltenberg had actually taken the decision earlier than that of the Council of State and the former Prime Minister himself stated in a hearing? Are there any claims that they're not telling the truth?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e633	I must first, within this one minute, be allowed to respond to the fact that the committee chairman, Kolberg, chooses to interpret it in such a way that the rapporteur does not answer the question. I replied in the beginning: we are united behind this criticism. It's not just the Left – it's the Right, it's the Advance Party, it's the Green Party, and it's the Christian People's Party. After an overall assessment, a number of factors such as the Riksrevision address – both in isolation, but in particular overall – make it necessary to present proposals for criticism in the decision. Which part of this representative Kolberg doesn't understand, and which part of what he wants to make a rhetorical point out, I have trouble seeing and understanding, but he may have to explain where he really wants this. Now I have said clearly that all these parties are united behind this criticism. The reasons why the Right Party and the Advance Party have chosen to reach the same conclusion must be explained. I have explained the vision I stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e640	We have now heard a strong criticism with a high voice, it is still upresis conceptual use, and still the case rapporteur talks about full-scale cleaning when it is actually about CCS – the capture and storage of carbon dioxide. It is the essential CCS system. There was a great risk, it was expensive, it was difficult, and there were many relationships that had to work together. That has been said to the Storting, and it has all been agreed upon. The central batch agrees to set bold targets to reduce CO2 emissions, including: capture and storage, but we have been fully aware of the risks associated with the capture and storage of CCS. There has been no overall demand from the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party to develop the matter differently, and my question is: Why did the Left word not use the word «critical» in connection with the state budget procedure here in the autumn of 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e653	As I have said before, the left would already be in the budget last year put down the Mongstad project because we saw which way this was going. Now it's not the dream of, the vision of, or the goal of getting to the moon with CO2 capture and storage, but it's the follow-up you've had of this. That is the cost control of this, that is the incentives you have set up or not set up, or that you have not followed up the emission permit you have given. That's what's critical, not that you've set a goal on it. If the representative responds to the concept of ‘cleaning’, CCS is of course concerned with capture and storage, but the professional community uses the concept of ‘cleaning’ and the plan and the point is, of course, capture and storage. But ‘cleaning’ is a term that goes back in different forums, and it is not unnatural to use it in this context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e663	The left has said that it should not have been accepted that the gas power plant was put into operation until the first kilo of CO2 was captured and deposited. Obviously it would have done the matter differently. But there are also a number of other factors that were crucial to the development of the project, and the Left has not come up with a single fundamental point that has otherwise been criticised on the matter. Can the rapporteur now give examples of which other basic conditions the Left has criticised, except that the gas power plant should not be started without capture and storage from the first day?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e673	There's a report here from the National Audit Office on well over 120 pages that's full of things you could draw out, and parts of many of these things I also pulled out in the introduction I gave. The cost control of the project – which you haven't had – is a very crushing moment for the Riksrevision to come forward. Costs have not been controlled. There have been no incentives for Statoil to succeed. I also asked this question to Helge Lund several times during the hearing, not whether they themselves had anything to do with this, but what incentives he saw the government had set up for them to get them into port with the goal. It was a question he could not answer. But it's not immaterial with this emission permit. Once one chooses to ignore the recommendations of one’s own professional authority — at the time of the SFT — and chooses to do so yourself, it is therefore not necessary to erode the emission permit that is the real possibility of achieving this goal in the next round. The emission permit, as the terms were set, was well thought, but that is not what is criticising. What's critical is that you haven't followed up. That's also what the Riksrevision promises: a number of these moments that I've explained in my longer article.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e680	The majority of the criticism on which the rapporteur bases his view is that he assumes that the decision to terminate the full-scale project at Mongstad was taken at a different time than it was. What is alarming about this is that it has not been possible during the hearings or during the speeches by the rapporteur to provide some evidence that it is indeed so. The case rapporteur was instead challenged by the representative of Kolberg to document some of his claims about this, but avoided doing so skillfully, so I should give him an opportunity to do so. How can the rapporteur prove that these claims are true?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e687	First of all, it's to point out that there's a question that the majority is asking. The criticism that we are making, which we believe is the reason why the Storting should take decisions, is based on an overall assessment. With regard to this issue of when the decision was actually taken by the government, there is no doubt that there has been a number of headlines in the press – which I believe the representative Karin Andersen has also received, including with the representative's own party trap Bård Vegar Solhjell, and also the then oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe has been mentioned – where it has been shown that the real decision had been taken at a much earlier time. However, for party strategic reasons, most likely to benefit SV, the choice was made to push on the decision after the election. It has not been documented, and therefore the majority have not written that this has been documented. But this is a relationship we ask questions about, and Andersen should be happy that you actually ask questions about it, because it's not that the government itself can decide at what time information is going to flow to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e694	I would like to thank the representative Raja for a good and thorough review of this matter and for the good management of the matter within the committee. One of the key points – both in the criticisms that Raja and the majority have made, to which many questions have been raised in the Mongstad case – is the first price of this clean-up project. So my first question is, does the representative Raja and the left mean 25 billion? kr is a price you should be able to pay to implement this project? And in the course of that, the second question: How does the Left view the further use of CO2 capture and storage in Norwegian climate policy after this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e704	I believe it is absolutely necessary that we succeed in CO2 capture and storage. In order to reduce climate change emissions and achieve the objectives we have set in the climate agreement, it is necessary that we continue that work. For the price: then the estimate of 25 billion. NOK came up in 2009, it was such an estimate that it should have caused you to sit down and think about whether this is the money you want to spend. But I believe that this is not a realistic estimate. When we look at other projects in other countries, for example: In Canada, SaskPower and Boundary Dam have done this on – I don't remember the exact amount – about 5–6–7 billion. kr. I have heard other projects being mentioned in that order, for example: The refinery at Quest, and I believe that this is a correct and not least acceptable price. I believe that we, as a rich country, must go ahead. If it costs us a little bit more, we should take advice on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e717	In my opinion, the launch of a large national carbon capture and storage programme in 2006 was a correct and very important decision. It was courageous and it was visionary, and it was right of the then Prime Minister Stoltenberg in his New Year's speech to give it the name «our moon landing». This is the kind of decision that is policy at its best. It was a decision supported by a comprehensive Norwegian political environment, and of which a comprehensive Norwegian political environment should be proud, and it is a decision that has been confirmed by a unanimous increase in all important crossroads. The challenges of this case are therefore our common challenges. But it is not such to understand that the government is not responsible as the executive government – responsible to Stortinget. The reports that came at that time, that is, in 2006, both from the United Nations and from others, demonstrated more than ever what man-made climate change does to our planet: the sea level is rising, the police are melting, and we know that the poorest people in the world experience extreme drought and long flood periods, which take them away, among other things. the possibility of food production and clean water. Unfortunately, this has only been reinforced in the years that have passed, and no later than Monday, we were reminded that climate change will reduce food supply, with the risk of new conflicts and fundamental differences in the world community. In our own country too, the consequences of climate change are felt by the fact that we have had a lot of weather: strong storms, floods, early spring, drought or very much rain. I don't think there are any Nordics who don't understand that climate change will affect the whole world, including us, as the leader of the UN Climate Panel recently said – or rather repeated. A major cause of climate change is emissions from major power plants, from large industrial plants and from transport. This was a starting point for the bold political decision taken in 2006. Emissions from coal-fired power plants are increasing. Nearly two thirds of the growth in emissions is due to increased use of coal, and once a power plant is built, it must be very much until it is shut down again. This was also a starting point for the decision taken in 2006. There was no simple solution that was chosen at the time. Mongstad was a complicated place to work with the capture and storage of CO2 because it was to be retrofitted to a power plant that was already in operation, to an active refinery, where costs are high, and to a place where it is full of industrial activity. Nevertheless, the government of Stoltenberg felt that it was realistic, and the Stortinget felt that it was realistic – but certainly with many uncertainties. In 2005 and 2006, most people believed in higher, and high, international CO2 prices and that the technology for the capture and storage of CO2 was more mature than it has proved to be in the past. One of the questions that need to be answered is this: Could not the government, despite high cost estimates, have continued to expand in Mongstad? The answer to that is, as I see it: Yes, it would be possible to build a full-scale sewage treatment plant on Mongstad, but the question is at what risk, at what price and what would have been demonstrated to the rest of the world. What we would demonstrate here in Norway is that we would have been willing to use very large resources to clean a relatively limited amount of CO2 and that this technology is extremely expensive for the rest of the world. The world would not find it very attractive to follow in Norway’s footsteps with such a result. From the start of the project, costs were doubled and emissions halved. The heat demand at the refinery was reduced and thus also the production at the heat plant. In Report. St. 9 for 2010–2011, the government writes: ‘Full scale CO2 management in Mongstad will limit Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. An equally important objective of Norwegian technology and competence development is its application outside Norway. Only then will large reductions in greenhouse gas emissions be achieved as a result of the Norwegian initiative.’ The work on CO2 management at Mongstad has dealt with two different projects: firstly, the construction of a technology centre, and secondly, the cleaning of the emissions from the heat and power plant at Mongstad. The centre was opened in the summer of 2012 and was built within adopted budgetary frameworks. It is the world's largest CO2 capture technology testing plant; both gas and coal cleaning technology can be tested there. The National Audit Office then also determines that the installation has a high potential to contribute to relevant technological development. This is something we need more of. As a result of political decisions and political implementation, we can state that we have gained new knowledge, we have developed technologies, and the world's largest testing laboratory for CO2 capture technologies is at Mongstad. Then, of course, there is still reason to be disappointed that the goal of full-scale cleaning in Mongstad was not achieved. I share that disappointment. It is also important to stress that the end of Mongstad for the previous government was also about setting a new strategy – and not least about maintaining the goal of full-scale clean-up by 2020. So to some of the moments that appear to be criticism of the government of Stoltenberg and the progress and implementation of the Mongstad project. First of all, on the cost of implementing the project, which is much discussed: I begin by quoting former oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe, who said in the hearing: ‘It is important for me to say that there are no other numbers. The plan was to provide new estimates for the summer. This work was naturally completed in connection with the government’s decision to complete the full-scale work last autumn. It has always been stressed to Stortinget that these are uncertain figures, that they are estimates, and I would point out that if the Stortinget disagreed with the decision-making basis, the Stortinget would have had other assessments of this figure, it would have been natural to have taken it up in the context of the treatment of the 2014 government budget. I record that the Stortinget has not done so." And on the other hand, ‘And there is no basis for decision. If this were a decision-making basis for which investment was to be made, the figures would, of course, have been reviewed and quality checked in a completely different way.’ I agree with the considerations of the former Council of State at this point. The agreement between the State, at Gassnova, and Statoil, also known as the Implementation Agreement, is criticised by the National Audit Office. Firstly, I would like to say that the Labour Party is not involved in the suspicion of Statoil which we are reading between the lines and in clear text from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party. There was an agreement that was concluded between two parties, and Statoil shall also operate commercially when it comes to the assignment of the State. That is what the Workers' Party believes for its part is most legitimate. It is a great surprise to me that the Right in particular is so much involved in the suspicion of Statoil's intentions. No one could force Statoil to do this job. The implementation agreement has been discussed on several occasions, as late as when the report was processed. St. 9 for 2010–2011 on full scale CO2 management. Then the Christian People's Party proposed to renegotiate the agreement. So the representatives of the Christian People's Party stand for so far safe, but they only got the votes of the Christian People's Party and the Left. The other parties voted unanimously to ensure that no new negotiations were held. This is at the heart of the Great Britain's relationship with the whole case, namely the claim by my side that the Stortinget has supported the government in the handling of the implementation agreement, with the exception of the Left and Christian People's Party. But the other parties, in this case the Right and the Advance Party, still participate in this vote in the criticism of the Implementation Agreement. That's what's called political after-school — nothing but that. The National Audit Office's report contains criticism. It's a criticism of relationships that in retrospect it's easy to see that could have been done differently. This is, of course, the responsibility of the previous government, but the Right and Advance Party – as I have already said – have voted in all the crossroads for the proposals that the government has promoted. It is therefore essential that the Committee's own work and the Committee's consultations have revealed at no point that the government of Stoltenberg has not properly and adequately informed the Stortinget and that the Mongstad project has not been carried out with the best intentions of the government, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the actors in Mongstad. The current oil and energy minister, Tord Lien, who is here today – I said this in the hearing, and I want to repeat it here, so that the Council of State can hear it again – has given the Committee a long and very satisfying answer to all the Committee's questions. But this was done mainly by referring to the government of Stoltenberg's documents and previous information to Stortinget. In this way, the letter from the Council of State Tord Lien confirms that the current government agrees with the government's understanding of the case and its information to the Stortinget. The Government of Solberg has also confirmed that they will continue to run the Technology Centre in Mongstad, and believe it is financially responsible, says the Council of State. - Exactly. The government also adheres to the goal of full-scale clean-up by 2020, as suggested by the government of Stoltenberg. Against this background, the criticisms of the majority parties – not to mention the proposal for a decision – come in a particularly strange and revealing light. Mongstad was stopped with the reasons that have been explained. But the ambition of the Stoltenberg government was not. There was a different plan. Monitoring initiatives were taken to achieve what we said we would do: have full scale clean-up in 2020. Let me again quote the oil and energy minister of the red-green government, Ola Borten Moe, who was the last to have hand on the wheel: «Then we have parallel work at Mongstad with projects beyond Mongstad. It's not like Gassnova and the government just worked on CO2 capture and storage in Mongstad, but they've been working on identifying possible projects elsewhere in the country. You still work on that, and it's a work that I understand Gassnova has continued, among other things. on Norcem Brevik. The ambition is also firm, and I feel that a total increase has joined in, namely the establishment of a full-scale sewage treatment plant somewhere in Norway by the end of 2020. I can't understand why it's right that you haven't had two thoughts in your head at the same time." In this context, it is worth noting that the Storting adopted the ambition for a full scale CO2 capture plant by 2020 as late as the review of the budget for this year again. This was adopted against one vote – the Greens’ vote. The Left voted in favour, the Christian People's Party voted in favour, the Right voted in favour, and the Progress Party voted in favour – that is, full support again, without any criticism. Time has also been a discussion theme. Yes, it took longer than planned. This is due in particular to the uncertainty surrounding amines and cancer hazards. When the project started, it was thought that amine technology was safe and tested. It turned out that you didn't know if amines could be carcinogenic when used on a large scale. It is possible, as I hear it – I get to say it this way – that another government might ignore this and take the chance to move on. The Stoltenberg government saw no reason to play with people's health. The cancer risk has to be taken seriously – it has been done, and the project has been delayed. Of course, I have noticed what the Director of the Environment Directorate said in the hearing – that they thought that the cancer of amines was not so great – but the government and the actors in Mongstad could not take chances with as serious information as it appeared. That this is criticised by the majority parties and is suspected by allegations that the delays created this could also have other grounds can only be characterised as being directly unreasonable. If the information that had been provided had been ignored and not taken into account, and it had then proved to be harmful over time, probably the criticism today would have heard differently – I would say for good reason. The date of publication was in the 2014 budget, because it was where a larger sum had to be granted or a decision to leave it. I have heard – throughout this process – and we have heard it here today too, unfortunately, that there are doubts about the honesty of some of those who have been in the hearing. I have heard repeatedly that the individual state councils of the Stoltenberg government have been assigned opinions and motives different from their own. I have heard that there has been a demand to gain insight into the government's internal discussions. I repeat that sentence: I hear demands from the majority parties in this case that the government's internal discussions should be published. It is my sincere opinion that there can be no doubt that internal political considerations are not covered by the disclosure obligation. This should be general knowledge of parliamentaryism, but much of the time in the hearing was nevertheless devoted to the opposite. The rapporteur summarised Stoltenberg’s answers to questions of transparency regarding internal discussions in the government as follows: ‘Do you think that the Committee here – representing the Storting and the Storting represents the people – has no legitimate reason to know whether your two expert councils have intended that this project should be stopped long before the revised budget 2013?’ I have to say it's interesting to see what the sitting government – and I'd like to hear the Council of State's opinion on it afterwards – thinks about this, because his own party also joins this view. If we are now to be presented with internal discussions, the personal opinions of individual councils, it would be completely new in the case – in my opinion. This criticism of the Stoltenberg government – against former Prime Minister Stoltenberg and against the government’s state councils – must be rejected here in Stortinget, I believe. Should such a practice be established, as the majority here believes should be the right one, it would distort the balance of power between government and the Storing. The working party does not want this. We believe that the government's political considerations and internal discussions are just government. If not, Stortinget will be part of the government's proceedings. It will create insecurity and very unclear responsibilities. I would like to refer to the comments of the Energy and Environment Committee in the discussion of the full-scale CO2 management message: ‘Although there has been and is disagreement in the Storting regarding the implementation of full-scale CO2 cleaning technologies by gas power stations in Norway, there has been full agreement that the work done in Mongstad is of great importance. A unanimous increase in May 2009 adopted the project with the construction of the Test Centre at Mongstad [[TCM]] It is a paradox that Mongstad – which has been the subject of so many discussions in the United Kingdom, on which there has been a great political consensus in the important road choices, and which is actually a project that the whole of political Norway should be proud to have been involved, even though it did not go far enough – is being produced as something other than it is, and is subject to much criticism. I am of the conviction that most people see this, including the parties that are now in favour of a criticism of the government of Stoltenberg, but they are not able to take advantage of the opportunity to turn political coins on a case that is now, in retrospect, easy to have other opinions than what you had at the beginning and during the process. They can't leave it. As I said, for the truth is that the Storting has ended up with all the important choices, with some exceptions that I have already mentioned – the Christian People's Party and the Left's wish to renegotiate the implementation agreement – but all the others voted against. In the same way, I cannot remember hearing the Right's call for a clean-up from day one. It's one of the same problem. I haven't heard it before, at any time, through all these years. Equally full is now inside the criticism of this point together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It's just strange and, of course, obviously completely inconsistent. If they had meant it, it would be natural to expect that in their time they would have voted in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal here in the Grand Duchy. Finally, there is a quotation from Mr Tord Lien, Minister for Oil and Energy, who, in his introduction to the Committee's hearing, said: ‘CO2 management is technology development. Exposure to technology development involves high risks. We must always be prepared that some road choices will not lead to or become more demanding than expected." So true, so true. That's a good summary of what Mongstad-saka is about, what current oil and energy minister Tord Lien gave us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e871	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e874	The representative of Kolberg is trying selectively to draw one of my questions out of the context and is trying to create the impression that we should have asked for transparency in internal discussions. Where the representative of Kolberg got it from, I'm a little uncertain about it. Internal discussions are different from what we question, and I would like to ask Mr Kolberg's representative what he thinks about when the Stortinge has a legitimate reason to get information. Is it when the real decisions are taken, or can the government – as it suits it itself, taking into account the forthcoming elections – choose to push on the real decisions taken, and for party strategic reasons, electoral strategy, to choose to publish the decisions only after an election? Is this in line with what the representative, Mr Kolberg, wants the situation to be? That, for strategic reasons, the government at any time can choose not to publish the actual decisions and hide behind the formal ones?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e880	The answer to the last one is no. What I say and think I have very strong parliamentary experience to say is the following – and that's not my personal opinion, but the Biggest thing – the Biggest thing relates to the decisions the government makes, when they take them, and when they present them to the Biggest. It has something to do with the balance of power between accumulation and government, which I for my part do not want to frighten – precisely because, as I said in my post, Stortinget is not going to be part of the proceedings in the matters for which it is up to the government to be responsible. This is linked to a strong and important principle in the Norwegian state, namely that the government is the executive. If the Stortinget were to become part of the government's treatment system, by getting information along the way, a whole new parliamentary situation would be established, which the Workers' Party does not support. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e887	That is not what I asked the representative of Kolberg. To be quite specific: information has been received, such as: Today's business in several headlines has come forward, that internally located sources in the government have said that the real decision was taken. It was an agreement. But it was so bad and difficult for one government party that, for electoral reasons, one had to push on the formal decision and publish it after the election. If this results in correctness, Mr Kolberg, that it is reasonable that the real decision was taken before the revised budget, how will you characterise the arrival of the Stortinget in the context of the revised budget and announce that the full-scale project will cost 35 million. kr more – if the actual decision was actually taken long before, if the information provided by these sources to Today’s Business is correct? Or do you think what Today’s Business writes is completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e892	The President will remind you that the addressee is the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e895	Today's Business has become the truth witness of the Advocate General in this matter. I have to say, there's a very special experience here in the staging room. Here we have a national audit report, which naturally does not relate to this. We have had the committee's own work, which has been chaired by the representative Raja. We've had hearings. There is no point in showing what is at the heart of the criticism of the government by the rapporteur. It's very strange. Nevertheless, he allows himself to repeat these accusations against the government, namely that it has not been telling the truth about when it made the decision. The decision was made when it was taken. It was published and announced to the Stortinget in a correct and regulated manner in the context of the 2013–2014 State Budget. The size got the right information. The Storting joined it unanimously, without criticism. But the rapporteur in this case finds the basis for believing that the Storting obviously did something wrong. I don't mean it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e902	I listened with interest to Mr Kolberg's contributions and looked forward to when he would come into the Riksrevision's report. Instead, we got an impressive demonstration using detached quotes. That might be interesting if it's the defense line for the government that's gone. The right also got a visit. In fact, reference was made to a claim that has been repeated here today – also mentioned in the Political Quarter – that the Right should have been so horrificly critical of Statoil. Then I would like to ask: Where in the setting have we been critical to Statoil? It must be possible to answer it very specifically, so that I can receive guidance and possibly respond to the claim that we have been particularly critical of Statoil.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e909	If this issue indicates that the representative Tetzschner feels that this is a difficult point, we have come a long way. That's the first ones I'd like to say. The other thing I want to say is that there are several places in the vote that the Right Party participates in comments and criticisms that clearly suspect Statoil's intentions. I can come back to that at a later stage in the debate. That's what I'm referring to. I think it is very surprising that precisely the Right does it – that is why I have said it several times – because the Right Representatives know very well that Statoil is a commercial company, that they have their interests to care for, and that the Workers' Party for its part has believed that it is completely legitimate. But now the Right, at least on the indication level, believes that here Statoil has not fulfilled its intentions in a good way. I believe that is all possible reason to point out. If the representative Tetzschner is now on his way to believe that I have been wrong, and that the right does not mean this, it is good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e916	The representative of Kolberg says he will be concrete in a later article. He can be concrete now. What has our criticism been all about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e921	The criticism has been that, for example: on several occasions, the implementation agreement and the content of the implementation agreement have criticised the centrality of this point, namely the relationship between Statoil, Gassnova and the State. It has always been indicated that if there had been another kind of implementation agreement, it would have been easier to implement the project, despite the need to know that Statoil's interests in this picture are also of a commercial nature. Looks like you've got that all along. The size has been continuously and has been constantly informed about it. The right has never criticised this before. Now you're in on these notes, and it's quite timely for me to point this out. I have now pointed out this with the implementation agreement as one of the concrete things. I can come back in later articles and cover this further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e926	I register that the representative of Kolberg today, among others. has indicated that he understands that the implementation agreement was a compromise and a result of a negotiation between two parties – the State and Statoil. When reading the Riksrevision report, they point out, as one of their main findings, that agreements concluded limit the country’s governance opportunities – get incentives for the time- and cost-effective development of the full-scale project, among others. Then my question is, what have you learned from the Mongstad case about how to design agreements between the state and commercial companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e931	It's true, as the representative Gruvan says, that we're saying, of course, that this has been a challenge. I have explained very carefully why it was as it turned out. It's part of the substitution of lines between Tetzschner and me, which is in the same street, to use such an expression. What have you learned? You've learned that, of course, you have to be very careful, that you have to make sure that the state has a good initiative. At the same time, I would like to underline what has been said many times in the hearing: Who else would carry this out than Statoil? What other technology environment in Norway would have been able to do this job? There hasn't been anyone else. There has been a complete consensus in the Stortinget that Statoil had to do this. It was absolutely necessary that it became as it turned out. It has in some ways been a problem, but not in a decisive way. I want to repeat what I said: I believe that Statoil has done what they could, and that they are not criticising.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e938	The argument for implementing the carbon capture and storage project in Mongstad was that it was reasonable and necessary. The argument to stop the project was that it was too expensive. Given today's CO2 quota prices, we know that CO2 capture will be terribly unprofitable for a long time to come. Then it becomes interesting to know what the Workers' Party thinks about what's too expensive in new carbon capture projects. In this context, it is interesting that the representative Kolberg concluded that no one could force Statoil to implement this project. The question then arises as to whether the party that introduced the pollution law in Norway considers that the pollution law cannot be used to oblige Statoil or other companies in Norway to cut their CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e958	Yeah, I mean, you can. But if it was relevant in this context, I shouldn't have said anything about it here. What was the intention of the matter we are dealing with was to see if the government of Stoltenberg has acted in any way contrary to the Stortinge decision, if it has not informed the Stortinge correctly. At both of these points, the answer is no. Of course, all the other aspects are up to discussion, but in this context, it was important that we had Statoil as the technological tool to help us do this job, and they've done it to the best of their ability. That's what's my point. Then comes all the other aspects that the representative Hansson mentions, which lie a little outside of our case, but which have absolutely something to do with not being able to force Statoil in the current situation with the background of the agreements that had been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e963	Normally I have noticed that the representative of Kolberg attaches great credibility to the Riksrevision and believes that they are doing a thorough and important work. In this context, the Riksrevision has presented a long report and passed through the work of the government of Stoltenberg on CO2 management and made critical comments on a number of points. The cost control of the project has been too poor, the government has not set up incentives to succeed in the project, etc., etc. I am very interested to hear what the representative Kolberg thinks is the most difficult criticism, the heaviest criticism, the Riksrevision comes to the outgoing government. What will the representative of Kolberg bring forward in this report – because I suppose that is something?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e971	I would like to say that the most serious thing about this – and which is at least indirectly pointed out in the Riksrevision report – and which we all have to deal with, is the problem that it was not realised. It's a little bit difficult. That's the hard part. I expressed in my post that I am disappointed, too – that we could not. Then there is a question of whether there is something in this report that is of such a nature that you can really say that it was conscious – that things were done that were so that it led to us not being able to do it. On that question I will answer no. I have read this report in and out – and I have great confidence in the Riksrevision – and there are some reasons, as the Riksrevision points out, to be able to see it completely differently in the light of the after-clock. But you always did everything you could, all the time as best you could, and that's what I'm saying – and the Stortinge joined the way of all the important crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e978	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e981	There is no need to use many words to discuss whether it is an important contribution to solving climate problems if we are able to bring greenhouse gas emissions down to the atmosphere. That's not what this case is about. So it's not about the goals, it's about our ability to achieve them. So the theme is the National Audit Office's review of the government's efforts to implement Storting's decisions and assumptions in order to deal with CO2. The retired Stoltenberg government has been able to enjoy working on the basis of broad consensus in the Storting. The then government promoted exactly the matters and formulated exactly the objectives of the Storting that it itself wanted to work on. The red-green government could therefore dispose of very large amounts made available by a very benevolent and mostly unanimous magnification. It is this unanimity that we hear that the representative Kolberg uses as a kind of argument that we should not be able to assess the resource effort critically in retrospect. And that's exactly what the Riksrevision report helps us with. It actually describes what can be a little sad for many politicians many times: the meeting between political goals and reality. Unfortunately, policy-making power is often assessed on the basis of how much one is willing to spend or allocate for a purpose, and to a far lesser extent whether the objectives are achieved. The National Audit Office’s report can be read as a description that the political will to spend money on a purpose can also lead to a less critical attitude towards the use of money, and low awareness of the achievement of objectives. The use of money plays a crucial role in the organisation, incentives, agreements, risk distribution, quality assurance and other policy-defined framework conditions. Over the period 2007–2012, the country has spent a total of 7.4 billion. kr for the CO2 management projects. The government has spent about 5 billion. kr on the planning and implementation of the Technology Centre in Mongstad. Planning full-scale CO2 capture in Mongstad and Kårstø with transport and storage solutions has cost a total of 1.9 billion. kr. The total cost of construction of TCM was 5.9 billion. kr. Of this, only 38 pst is estimated. to be connected to the technology facilities – and the construction costs are 1.7 billion. kr higher than the estimate presented by Stortinget for the treatment of St.prp. No 38 for 2008-2009. High investment and operating costs mean the risk that the return on CO2 management will simply not be proportionate to economic efforts. One of the success criteria that was strongly emphasised during the consideration of the Energy and Environment Committee was that, in addition to making breakthrough innovations in technology, this should also be done within a cost framework that made it commercially interesting for others to use. So there are two aspects to the goal that we haven't achieved: we haven't achieved the technological progress we imagined, and we've also gone beyond any economic framework, which is prohibitative to ever put this into commercial use. It is true, of course, that there was initially limited experience in implementing CO2 management on such a large scale, and it is true that the complexity of CO2 management has been systematically underestimated — and in particular in the first instance, when the Implementation Agreement between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Statoil was signed in 2006. It gives me the opportunity to go further with the theme from the line change with Mr. Kolberg: We have not criticised Statoil to take care of their interests when they negotiate with a counterparty, but the agreement is too bad. But it is not the counterparty's fault, it is the country's fault that this agreement has become so weak. The entire National Audit Office's report can bring back many of the management problems you've had, just to that agency. To sum up this part, we are told: Yes, we understand that the world is complex, we understand that not all innovation and technology is ready for use – that is the purpose of the effort – but the legal process, the contractual process, the organisational process, is not high technology. It is possible to have good competence without being able to do anything about molecular structures. The objection is first of all – and there I think, although it is uncomfortable for the committee chairman, we must actually also go into the report and discuss what it can tell the Stortinget – that the state paradoxically gave up governance in a matter of such political interest, and that a unanimous increase that is so interested in contributing, almost not interested in what effective means of governance you have, or will develop, to realise both the purpose of government and the Storting. The Ministry of the Environment's emissions permit and the Implementation Agreement were important starting points and frameworks for the establishment of CO2 capture and storage – which later proved to be non-existent. The studies show how the subsequent agreements deviated and thus weakened the positions of the country, from a poor starting point to a worse. In particular, it is noted that the implementation agreement was purely contractually vague and, on some points, worded overall, even though it is known that good contractual techniques are to develop the agreement fairly in detail, given that the parties do not have similar interests. If you have vague target formulations that govern an agreement with parties that have different interests, you'll still have discussions about how the agreement is to be understood, and you'll still have to negotiate supplementary agreements. There are very many references to Gassnova in this room. If anyone who does not follow the policy on a daily basis should hear this debate, it is important to remind ourselves that Gassnova was properly established as a public limited liability company, but that in this context it was the State implementing body. There are some who, of old habit, refer to Statoil as if it is the state implementing body for energy policy. Here it was Gassnova, who originally had one employee and was eventually hired a little more, and who, throughout the course, depended on initial competence, competence that they themselves did not have, when they were in contact with some of the most capable technologists, who represented the counterparty's interests in the agreement, namely Statoil – again nothing wrong said about Statoil. It is the weak negotiator, the weak counterparty, that the State made to deal with its interests, which led to both a bad agreement and weaknesses in compliance with the agreement. It is true that the state, by its Plenipotentiary Gassnova – as it is actually more appropriate to call them – had little room for action in order to maintain state interests in the CO2 management projects on an ongoing basis. So, of course, it's a problem for itself. That's what the government has to do with the Storting. It is a problem that the investment budget submitted to the participants in the TCM, which had been presented to and treated by the Stortinget, was larger than that provided for in the decision to raise funds. That's one side. The other side is that questions can also be asked about — and the Riksrevision does — whether the investigation manual has been complied with. It was probably noted that the representative of Kolberg spent a lot of his time telling us how informed the Stortinget had been – it had been included in all budget decisions and briefings. But the Stortinget has also taken a decision that binds the government in addition to this matter, that is to say, the investigation manual. Of course, the size must assume that you follow the investigation manual when you go out into dangerous and unknown waters. The purpose of the investigation guide is to ensure a good understanding and management of public reforms, regulatory changes and other measures. These provisions aim, in particular, at identifying the economic, administrative and other significant consequences of reforms and actions. If there is significant uncertainty about the elements included in the calculation, it is necessary to consider how the impact of the measure is assumed to depend on the uncertain factors. The investment estimate for TCM was presented in St.prp. 38 – referred to instead. It was sent to Stortinget on 30 January 2009, was dealt with here in the hall on 7 May 2009 and stated an expected construction cost of 4.2 billion. kr, including the uncertainty allowance. There was nothing known to the Stortinget. In any case, a project reserve was not set up to manage any changes in the scope of the project and unexpected cost increases – it came later. The Ministry of Oil and Energy and the other owners then decided to build the TCM on the basis of a cost estimate of 4.64 billion. kr. Then a project reserve of 1.3 billion was decided. In addition, kr. The total investment budget was 5.9 billion. NOK, an amount that Stortinget was not familiar with. I'll stay a little bit by this fact. I believe that if the Stoltenberg government had continued, only on this basis would it ask questions about whether the government had fulfilled its information obligation to Stortinget. The Ministry of Oil and Energy, following the presentation of St.prp. 38 an agreement with Statoil whereby the State assumes a greater responsibility for excess costs related to ancillary systems and infrastructure. The cost overrun agreement has made little contribution to limiting the costs of project implementation, as it was based on the investment budget of 5.9 billion. kr, which included the project reserve. The problem with the project reserve was not only that the Storting was not familiar with it, but that it also became self-fulfilling, because it was included in the basis for the project’s calculation – and therefore for the distribution of risk among the actors. We remember all this unfortunate distribution, which meant that planning was the responsibility of the state. As a result, Statoil was given very good incentives — quite natural, commercially considered — to spend the most of the costs and to spend the most of the time planning, so that the transition to a period of responsibility would take place as late as possible. You can see that there is also no good initiative to get ahead of the project. We can also see that the financing model of the TCM means that the industrial partners with a tax position in Norway may be reduced due to the possibility of deduction of income from the purchase of research services to cover the investment costs of the TCM. This lowers the financial risk for industrial partners. Thus, the financing model has given industrial partners weaker incentives to limit costs. This is kind of interesting -- the last section I've referred to directly from the National Audit Office's report. That is a political point, and that is that the red-greens, which usually refer to ordinary people’s tax reliefs as direct expenditure for the state – compete for other purposes, such as: Hospitals and old-age homes — according to this logic, the tax benefits for commercial actors should be added to the calculation of what Mongstad has actually cost society. Then there will be more than the project reserve you have to consider. The next aspect I want to address is what is also described in the report, namely lack of independent quality assurance. Since 2000, there has been a system of independent quality assurance for decisions on large-scale State investment projects in the country. It was not done in this case. One could ask in the case of major investment projects: how large do they actually have to be before considering that, according to the instructions, they should be guaranteed quality? Or have you become speed-blind or numerically blind when it comes to the oil sector – that they read billions as we read millions? We have not been given an explanation. I look forward to getting Mr Kolberg's explanation of why he thinks this is an excellent way of dealing with projects. Then we've come to the TCM. It is generally political rhetoric: when you do not reach the goals you communicate far and wide – either in the Stortinget or via television to the Norwegian people when it prepares to celebrate the New Year, taking self-criticism is very rare. But you can do something else: you can pretend that the goal was a completely different one, you can pretend that we've got a world-class test center. Costlyly, we may have, but the hearings have shown that there is great doubt as to what lasting values the TCM is leaving to the Norwegian community – after we've spent 7 billion. kr before we start calculating the tax privileges. There are people who say that in four years' time this will be a ghost village. I don't know, but at least that's a big danger. In that case, it is only the residual value: of course, there are a good number of scrap irons that will be available on the world market. But this is to visualize that this money may be lost in its completeness. So it's kind of just to keep this going over the election before it becomes known to the public that you've actually given up the project. There has also been a theme about the government should inform Stortinget about the shinning. I guess it wasn't that much fear because the government of Stortinget had, because we know the routines of an election year: you have a long summer vacation, so a election campaign, and then we take it after we know the result. I really think that the government here has to be approved for not wanting to misinform the Storting, but you can have your point of view on whether it was convenient for the government parties to avoid this knowledge for the voters, who are actually above the Storing. At least it was very convenient. That is why I believe that the government gets a burden of proof, even though I fully agree with Kolberg's interpretation that we cannot demand transparency in the government's internal processes. But when it is active from credible sources that the government de facto in March in a joint decision – across the departmental departments – says that this is not possible, I think they have an explanation problem. Fortunately, the then Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell is among us. He is a representative of the Stortinget, he could be here in the hall today and with simple words said no, this came as Christmas Eve on the curfew during the summer of 2013, so it was only in the best opinion that we made that conclusion as soon as possible in September. Then we had no choice but to trust it. I also think it is quite convincing that when these key decision-makers, with former Prime Minister at the head, are challenged in these questions at the hearing, they are going to crawl behind formalistic defences about the relationship between collapse and government – a relationship they otherwise take on very lightly – and say that we should not have any insight into it. Then they must also find themselves living with uncertainty if they knew. What I think about this is relatively easy to find. The report we are examining today is the National Audit Office’s 2006–2012 report, and only this information provided in this report would necessarily – if they had been publicly known – lead to inlaying. This could not be done as described. Remember, the Riksaudition is not in the first-hand information, it's the government that does. This information, which the Riksrevision now submits to the Storting, is that the government, however, has had immediate access to every single day, if they had taken an interest in them – and they have certainly done so. There is no unreasonable hypothesis when these conditions were known. At least we can assume that the Riksrevision facts were known to the government. At least by the end of 2012, as this report deals with, they had the knowledge that led, of course, to the closure and scrapping of the project. I have to go back to the very bold barristerous barrister that the committee chairman, Mr Kolberg, has mentioned here today in the Chamber. It is clear that there is an opportunity to discuss a critical national audit report that one has unanimously participated in scrapping the project in the past. But it was just the lay-in, it was about finding the disaster. No one could vote against a de facto assessment that the conditions did not allow the project to be realised. What we're discussing today is the recipe for what happened today. That such a tanned politician as Mr. Kolberg would think that an interesting discussion about the cause of the accidents could be cut off by a formalistic reference to the fact that we had no comments when we found the accident, is a very, very weak line of defense for the former government, and I would say that it is a little in conflict with what we have the Riksrevision and the report for. It's not just to bother the government, it's also because we can discuss and correct errors that someone has collected, and for which the government of course has the closest responsibility because they're the Executive Agency of the Great Britain. I would also like to challenge the chairman of the committee, Mr Kolberg, to take up the page that has been a little advanced in the joy of getting a TCM centre, even if there was no technological breakthrough. Nor has any of the other important things been started when the Storting granted these formidable amounts in its time. It was not just that you had to handle CO2 or remove gas molecules from the flue gas, you also had to store it, and you had to transport it before storage. So there is no legal and organisational work that would make it possible, as it is less technologically demanding than the cleaning process itself – I allow myself, despite the correction we have received from the representative Lundtigen, to use it as a short form, even though it may be more a layman's name, but you might understand what we are talking about. It is also possible to ask why no action has been taken that could prepare the project to lead to what was the whole project. Obviously, if we first catch the CO2, it has to be stored, otherwise it will be like a catch and release, which I see some pleasure fishermen spend their spare time on; you catch the fish, then you let it go with the scare and let it into the water again. It could not have been the purpose here. The purpose of CO2 management is that it is also deposited. What we can see is that in spite of 7 billion dollars. So kr it is not transported and stored a single gas molecule – not a single one! It's released into space. There are many interesting aspects to the report that we can also go into, which this post does not cover. I just want to finish by referring to the committee chairman's long introduction to the visionary policy. I agree that policies should always include an idealistic and visionary objective, drive – that is why we are here. But then Kolberg also says that making decisions based on vision is policy at its best. I agree. But at the same time, I would say that explaining the lack of results and keeping the population in doubt about the lack of results is policy at its worst.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1069	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1072	Listening to Tetzschner talking now is a very special political experience. As an example, I just want to say – and that is an example – that he now says that there was no criticism of Statoil it was about, it was a criticism of the implementation agreement, that it is too bad. Then we come to the point that the implementation agreement is not a new matter, this is something the Storting has known for many years, and had a discussion here. Why did the Right not address at an earlier stage the question of the content and form of the implementation agreement, and why did they not vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal in its time to renegotiate the implementation agreement when it is as critical today as it is now? That's a central question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1077	The answer to that is quite simple. The implementation agreement is the instrument on which the government thought it was a way to implement the Storting intention, otherwise it would hardly have concluded the agreement. Here was the intention of the Storting and the government coincident. The government is the closest one to assess whether this is a decent way to achieve its purpose. Although there were certainly rumors in the environment that the agreement was inadequate, it was then crucial for the Right that the government itself did not feel uncomfortable with the agreement. It clearly considered that it did not take any initiative to renegotiate the agreement, that the agreement was still a good tool to promote the interests of the State and defend the interests of the Storting in the matter. But that's what we have now received through the National Audit Office's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1084	This must probably mean that the representative Tetzschner now takes self-criticism. That's now he's got this information, and that's why he can mean what he means. In the past, he has not been able to believe it despite the fact that this information has been known all along, so this is just a way of trying to get out of it. If I had used his lawyer's language, I would have said that it's a strange way to argue, as Tetzschner tends to say when he's going to characterize what's being said. What is the reality here, in addition to what I have now pointed out, is the strong inconsistency in the Right's conduct in all of this matter. It is primarily about the right to all the comments of the Christian People's Party and the Left. At least they have a coverage in the discussion they've had in the past. Now the Right is with, and I just have to ask: what's happened in the Right that makes them mean something else than they've meant over all these years? Is this a criticism of the Right Members of the Energy Committee as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1094	It is true, since the representative of Kolberg is interested in parliamentary rules, that it is the government that is the executive agency of the Stortinge. When it does not take the initiative to change an agreement it itself has negotiated with a private commercial party, we interpreted it as having the management tool and the legal tool to do the purpose for which the agreement was intended to promote. The fact that individual representatives are concerned about the agreement does not bind us to share that concern as long as we see that the government feels comfortable with the agreement. But there's a learning point in this as well. We thought too well about the ability of the previous government to assess whether it had the means. Of course, we're going to learn from this for another time when the Workers' Party is in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1102	This is nuance in disclaimer, of course, and nothing but that. It's just to note that this is an attempt to get out of a very difficult problem. Then the representative Tetzschner repeated what he was saying, namely the indication that decisions had been made at different times than the government's representatives themselves have said. We have to be clear about this from the second largest party in the Storting, so I just want to ask: is it such that the Right believes that internal considerations or any disagreement within the Government are to be subject to the information obligation of the Storing? Is it so that the Right means it? I say we are anxiously waiting for what the representative of the government, the Council of State Tord Lien, will say about this later in the debate. It's going to be very interesting for us who are now in opposition, that we can ask for this information on an ongoing basis, as is expected from Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1109	The line was in two relationships. First, that the Right does not take responsibility. This case does not apply to the Right’s views earlier, if any. This applies to the extent to which the government has achieved the goal of the Storting. It has not been able to do so in this case. What we are discussing today, more deeply, is who is responsible for it. Then it would have been nice if the representative of the largest former government party could occasionally approach this somewhat in the light of the responsibility of the outgoing government. The second is my view of the internal discussions in the government. Of course, disagreement within a government is not to be expressed in public. They will have their privacy and have the opportunity to discuss issues that concern them. Implementing Storting's decision might have taken a little more of the government's time. I don't put myself in that. The problem in this case was that today's business had a concrete and credible report that the government had decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1118	The representative Tetzschner said that the state gave up control, and the most important thing, as I understood, was the 2006 implementation agreement and the gas emissions permit. The representative, Tetzschner, said that since it was the government that was closest to assessing the agreement, proud Right of Government. Now we've got the fasit, said the representative, through the National Audit Office's report. The National Audit Office’s report was submitted for treatment before Stortinget dealt with the State budget for 2014 in the autumn of 2013. At that time last year, the party did not see the right as critical of what the government had done. Why didn't someone come up with such strong criticism at the time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1125	I guess the last thing we have to refer to is that we've supported the intrusion, i.e. the finding of the breakdown. What we're discussing today is the recipe and the course to the disaster. Implicating that, if necessary, accusations should be made entirely outside the documents and matters submitted for processing here in Stortinget, is a rather special claim for a lot. We are discussing this matter today because it is an important matter. The quote that the representative Lundtigen started by adjudicating me is, in fact, a direct quote from the Riksaudition report. So it's not just me that claims that the contract work led to what it did.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1130	The background to my question is said that when the right-hand side uses the word «critical», it is clear what it means. That's the strongest expression you can use. There must then be something fundamental behind the use of such a strong criticism of the former government. What has the Right suggested, and at what point, which is different from what the former government did, that can justify that the Right can use such a strong expression against what they have been doing at all times?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1137	I see that the replicator is stuck in the same brief conclusion as the committee leader, Mr Kolberg, that because one has unanimously agreed to the conclusion of the accident, one should not be able to criticise the course. It is also true that the right has been behind the intentions of full-scale cleaning. We've been in the budget decisions. What we're talking about here is the government's inability to implement the Biggest Decision in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1144	The representative Tetzschner also continues to point out today what he calls credible sources in today's business, while clear positions and assurances that have come through the previous government's documents to the Stortinget and also a questioning in a control hearing in the Stortinget are clearly not given any weight. I don't think I can do anything with the conspiratory approach angle that Tetzschner's representative chooses to have. But I need to ask why the Right is not included in a comment in the setting, where it says: ‘These members assume that internal discussions in the government will not be presented to the Stortinget in the future either.’ Does that mean that this government now intends to have a different practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1154	Representative Andersen put in an antithetical interpretation here: that we're not in, that means that we're in the opposite position. The reason why we do not support the comment here is that it is part of a context in which a defence is built, namely that there is no need to inform the Storting about major changes in the premise basis for the Storting decision. It's something completely different.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1161	The representative, Tetzschner, rightly points out that the most important thing in the review of the Riksaudition and in the comitology process is the organisation of the project, its governance, the use of incentives and the means to carry out the project. And there can certainly be no doubt that the most effective instrument available to the state in such a case is the imposition of emission permits under the pollution law. Now it is unclear to me whether the Right believes that the Pollution Act should have been used as recommended by the SFT – to impose full scale cleaning from day one – but now leave it alone. What is interesting – when we learn from this matter – is whether the Right believes that we should use the Pollution Act to impose the removal of emissions from large sources in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1166	The introduction to the question was a hypothetical issue that this case does not concern. When it comes to future emissions policy, I believe that this case also shows that there is a shorter way to get a derogation from the state's rules when the state itself has an interest. I believe in principle that the law should be the same for everyone, even when the state organises through limited liability companies. Otherwise, there are more aspects than the requirements that this case also indicates, even if it has not been addressed. But also the lack of competing oil environments we pay the price for here. I was in my own time very sceptical when they merged the two very capable and independent oil environments in Norway into the giant we've got. This means that the state has very few options when choosing a partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1173	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1177	The case of the National Audit Office’s study of the state’s work on CO2 management mainly concerns CO2 management in Mongstad, but some attention has also been paid to CO2 management in the gas power plant at Kårstø. The survey period is 2006–2012, i.e. in the period of the resignation of the red-green government. In order to understand the government’s starting point in CO2 management, it is useful to go back to the 2005 Soria Moria Declaration of the Red-Green Government, where government parties say, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government’s objective is to become a world leader in the environmentally friendly use of gas.’ Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘Natural power has started the expansion of the gas power plant at Kårstø. The government will ensure that work is started on establishing a full scale CO2 removal plant on Kårstø and will contribute financially to this. The aim is to remove CO2 by 2009 so that it can be used as a pressure support for fields in the North Sea. If it becomes appropriate to apply the gas power station concessions granted to Forests and Kollsnes, the Government will also contribute to CO2 removal by them.’;» The Government Platform further states: ‘that research into environmentally friendly gas power is increased and that the innovation company Gassnova is allocated sufficient funds for this purpose’. This clearly shows that the government had great ambitions for the capture and storage of CO2, and during the treatment of the 2006 State budget, a target was set to capture and store CO2 from the gas power plant at Kårstø by 2009. Since one here had only four years available from the ambitions were expressed to the removal of CO2 would be a reality, it is obvious that the government had believed that there was technology available to capture CO2 from the exhaust gases at the gas power plant from day one. With only four years at its disposal, the construction work itself had to start immediately if the objective of removing CO2 in 2009 were to be a reality. Named after, for example: The investigation by Norway’s watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, concluded that a sound and ambitious timetable until its start in the turn of the year 2011/2012. This means that the level of ambition of the government was recommended to be extended by 2 to 3 years compared to the original. During the hearings held by the Control and Constitutional Committee, questions were asked to the former Council of State, Åslaug Haga, about purification by 2009 was more of an intention to do so than reality. To this Haga said: "I think there's two things to say about it. First of all, this was a period when it was made clear in the international climate-affected environment that without CCS, the two-degree target was out of reach. There was a pretty big ‘hype’ around this at the time, and there was an optimism about the possibilities of finding solutions and like ‘crack the coconut’ on CCS that was big, right? In retrospect, it is easy to see that we had too much faith that technology was readily available, but we were not the only ones in Europe and around the globe – probably – who at that time believed too much that technology was right around the corner.’ This seems to be an honest answer, but it is not acceptable for one to initiate large projects at very high costs, on the basis that the CCS environment was ‘hype’ at that time. It was also clear in 2006 that the handling of CO2 from a gas power plant was not profitable. The Ministry of Oil and Energy therefore concluded that the construction and operation of the capture plant and a solution for the transport and storage of CO2 as a whole had to be financed by the State. CO2 capture planning at Kårstø has cost 381 million in the period 2007–2011. kr without the realization of the construction of capture, transport or storage facilities. In the context of cost assessments for the Kårstø plant, planning costs are estimated from 330 to 357 million. kr, while the investment costs, made over different periods of time, range from 3.5 to 15 to 33 billion. kr. After spending 381 million. kr at Kårstø, the project was scrapped. What have we learned from the investigations at Kårstø? According to Gassnova's board, the experience of Kårstø was used in a dialogue with Statoil to reduce the costs of the full-scale project in Mongstad. However, this did not give results in terms of significantly reduced costs. Gassnova learned a lot from the Kårstø project that might have been exploited even more strongly. Mongstad thermal power plant was not part of the Soria Moria declaration, but became a case in 2006, when Statoil said they had to upgrade the refinery, among others. to strengthen the power supply. This created hard fighting inside the red-green government. The working party was on Statoil's side and could not accept that the refinery was closed. Finally, there was a compromise in the government that said yes to gas power, but also called for CO2 capture and storage by 2014. When Stortingen dealt with the project, it had two parts: test out technology at test centre build full-scale cleaning by 2014 In the Stortinget debate on Mongstad in May 2009, the red-greens were clear that the 2014 requirement for clean-up was absolute and that full-scale cleaning was more important than the completion of the test centre. In the debate on 7 May 2009, Mr Erling Sande from the Central Party said, inter alia: the following: ‘It is important to stress that the test centre is not connected to the full scale system in such a way that it must be completed, the tests carried out and the evaluation completed before proceeding with the establishment of the full scale system. On the contrary, the Government's plans to set up a full-scale facility are fixed in 2014. This is important to clarify in the light of the uncertainty that one has tried to address this issue in the later years.’ So the Mongstad project was full-scale cleaning, not just the construction of test facilities. It is clear that the capture and storage of CO2 was very central to the government as former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg used the ‘moon landing’ metaphor on greenhouse gas cleaning CO2 and he stated the following in connection with his new year in 2007: «We must take our responsibility. Climate emissions need to be reduced. Norway assumes a pioneering role when we have decided that the gas power plant in Mongstad will have a clean-up of the greenhouse gas CO2. We shall make this possible." And on the other hand, ‘Our vision is that within 7 years we will put in place the technology that will enable greenhouse gas emissions to be cleaned. It will be an important breakthrough to bring down emissions in Norway, and when we succeed, I think the world will follow. This is a big project for the country. It's our moon landing." It's very good that we set ourselves bold political goals, but when we use the metaphor "moon landing", most of us think back to when President John F. Kennedy of the United States in 1961 agreed to set a goal of putting a man on the moon before the decade was over, and bring him back safely. In 1969 the Americans were able to put a human on the moon and bring it back to earth. The moon landing was a fact only eight years after the vision was pronounced by the president. When using the metaphor ‘moon landing’, this is such a powerful metaphor that at the same time a high drop height is achieved if one fails in the goal. Yes, a nation provides Norway as such a high height of fall because, in view of what is going to happen, one is largely attracted to the world’s eyes, and the reputation of Norway as a technology nation can get a bad scratch in the paint if one does not succeed. Over the years, the nation of Norway has carried out very large technological achievements, from industrial travel to large hydropower deployments, and in the last part of the last century a huge leap forward in offshore oil extraction, where technology development and research have been given a dominant place to solve the problems. In terms of technology development to solve the task of Mongstad, i.e. carbon capture and storage, it is critical that one has not used the opportunity to involve our research institutions to a greater extent than what has been done. On questions to Nils A. Smoking in SINTEF, on research bodies such as SINTEF/NTNU has been involved in the CCS project, replied: ‘Not in the strategic assessments, but we have been involved in specific projects, for example: to find out what are the levels of amine emissions, detection methods and that kind of thing. But we have pointed out that Research Norway has not been very well cared for in those discussions." It's not a technology development nation like ours that we don't use our famous research institutes as contributors when technologies are to be developed and tested, and I hope that a learner will learn from this and include them in new big projects. On 20 September 2013, the previous government decided to close the full-scale project at Mongstad. In a press release by the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for the Environment, it is said, among other things, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Collection and storage of CO2 is a central part of the government’s climate action. In order to strengthen the investment, work is now being done on CO2 management. Full scale CO2 capture at Mongstad is phased out and replaced by a CO2 capture and storage programme.’;» It is almost incredible that from the Council of State it is supposed to claim that the government has CO2 capture and storage as a central element of climate action, while at the same time shutting down the project that could deliver large greenhouse gas cuts. Yes, the amount of CO2 available from Mongstad is approximately. 2 million tonnes and is probably the largest point emission we have land-based in Norway. It is therefore not very credible that we should scrape this project, while catching and storing is a central part of the government's climate action. This is reinforced when Jens Stoltenberg, during the hearing, says the following: ‘The Technology Centre of Mongstad is fully operational. The Centre and the comprehensive research programmes make Norway a leading nation in providing the world with one of the most important tools for global climate change. This vision, this new crime in the development of new and untapped technologies, with which we are in the process, still deserves the term'moon landing'. As a nation, we must continue to set bold targets in climate policy. The climate problem requires political courage and willingness to bet.’ It is critical that our former prime minister claims that the government has done new work with new and untapped technology. We have been told from the hearings that both amine technology and carbon technology are known technologies from many years back. It is also critical to claim that the government has solved the problem in Mongstad by claiming that the lunar landing is a fact. It is wrong when Jens Stoltenberg describes the test centre as a moon landing. He's probably pretty far from reaching the moon. However, he has just entered for a fine landing in Brussels – to take it with him. Anyone who has access to the processes in this case and is aware of the premises clearly sees that one has not made a moon landing with this project, rather it can be described as a real crash landing. It is completely incomprehensible that the project was stopped as: Mongstad is the largest point emission in Norway, with 2 million tonnes if all original emission sources are included, including the cracker at the refinery. The size had granted the money for the CCS project. Statoil was ready to continue and would come up with a renewed cost estimate, which it was suggested could be lower than previously outlined. The cancer of amine technology was solved. Technology is considered to be mature. Gassnova was ready to move on and was not informed that the project would be stopped. The outside world looked to Norway to learn from this project. We have an operational test center on the subject. One might be left with the feeling that the essential part of the government has never really wanted a full CO2 management at Mongstad. It seems that the strategy has been that a gradual move from sustaining the political ambition to capture and store CO2 to not doing anything, or saying otherwise: going from the fastest possible realization via cheapest and finally no clearing. One is now left with a test centre that has cost approx. 5 B.C.E. kr, and for which there is some uncertainty about the post-use. However, this shall continue until 2017 and will therefore incur additional large costs during that period. At the same time it is used approx. 2 billion. kr to full scale CO2 capture and storage without taking a single walk in the ground. In addition, a significant sum has been used on Kårstø, which was finally scraped. This result is critical. The five parties Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Green Party are united in taking decisions on criticism in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1402	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1405	It is strange to hear the representative Thorheim talk about that no new solutions or new technologies have been developed at Mongstad in this project. If so much technology exists, and if there are so many other facilities that the test centre represented in the world and internationally, why are international players in line to test and test their technology at Mongstad today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1410	We have, through the hearing, among other things: have heard, in particular from the United States, that both amine technology and carbonate technology are already in use and are also under development. At the test centre in Mongstad, these technologies have also been developed and worked on, but it is claimed that new technologies have been developed. I have not been documented, either through the hearing or through what I have read about this in various reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1417	I have to ask the representative: can he point to one facility that is currently in the world, which is comparable to the technology that is now capable of being used at the test centre in Mongstad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1422	Now I don't have the data on those facilities, but we have it in Texas, and we have SaskPower, who's been testing and finishing the final construction of his plant. I was at a seminar with them right after the hearing here in Oslo, where they held an orientation for, among other things. Bellona, who showed that they have now done this. They are in a different situation, by selling all the carbon dioxide they remove. But the principle is the exact same thing. It is the capture and storage – the storage in this case – that is for consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1429	In the hearing I was in, there was no one who could say that there was a facility that could be used in the same way as that in Mongstad. I perceive that the representative is concerned about CO2 management. So am I. It's important, and that's good. But does the representative think it is more important than the health of the population? Does the representative think it was wrong for the then government to slow down the project when you became familiar with the cancer of amine technology? Was it wrong for the government to put on the brakes and stop when it became known that it was possible to risk the health of the inhabitants, to people who live and work around Mongstad in Hordaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1439	I just have to say that in the Progress Party, like everyone else, we are very concerned with people's health. It was just supposed to be missing. Now, however, there were slightly different assessments of the extent of the cancer. When you heard the representative from our environmental authorities who is the most central, who thought this was not the big danger, I think it should be noted. I will not claim that it was wrong. What's right is to make sure that you're pretty sure that the audience is taken care of in terms of life and health. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1448	Biology, chemistry, geology and meteorology are important subjects. There are not least important subjects that form the basis for policy decisions on climate issues. The party of progress has been known in the past that they have not believed in these professional bodies, and therefore has behaved differently, not least in this Chamber. My question is simply: Does the Advance Party today believe that exhaust gas – for that is what we are talking about, exhaust gas containing CO2 – is a climate problem? And further: Does the Progress Party believe that such CO2 emissions need to be reduced – short and simple?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1461	Now I must first of all say that in the Advancement Party we are not negative to all the different species – biology, etc. – with which the representative Lundteg initiated. But the Progress Party is absolutely to take carbon dioxide out of the exhaust gases, so you can bring down those greenhouse gases. In the past, there have been slightly different assessments of who is creating these climate change. But the Progress Party, like the other parties, is fully committed to the government declaration that we should remove carbon dioxide.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1468	What we're talking about here are the man-made CO2 emissions. So it's the people who decide to burn fossil carbon, so they get a CO2 from the fossil carbon into the air. So the representative says it's amazing that the CCS plant in Mongstad was stopped, because it's like that. A lot of people have asked questions about it. But it's actually stopped. When one then is very open and direct at the fact that it is absolutely incredible that it has stopped, a nearby question is: what should have been changed in the framework conditions for one to go further with CCS facilities in Mongstad? It should be clear to you when you're so clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1482	Now I listed a lot of things at the end of my post – as if I were wondering why it was stopped. When the government, through previous treatments in the Storting, has had it as an declared objective to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, and one in Mongstad had available no less than 2 million tons of this, it is incomprehensible. That's why I said what I said, that I thought it seemed a little incredible. But it has to be noted that it was the government's decision. You ask questions about what other outside things it was supposed to be. But we simply don't understand why this was done in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1491	It was very alarming to hear the representative from the Progress Party say that it is incomprehensible that it was stopped, when the government in which the Progress Party is now sitting is also behind that decision – it is a unanimous increase that has supported that decision. But the question may also have to be: When the representative of the Progress Party now believes that this is feasible, that technology exists, and the Progress Party even believes that we should have CO2 capture and storage, can the Progress Party guarantee that this technology is put into operation and that capture and storage is implemented? That must be the only logical answer to the post that the representative of the Progress Party held here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1501	I guess there's no doubt about it. It is also stated in the government statement that we are to be gathered to have carbon dioxide capture and storage by 2020. That goal is still at work. How it's going to be done in the future, I'm going to leave to the current government. I will not go further on that – nor is it the task of the control committee to say how it should be done. We are left to the government to come back to how it should be done. But it has to be done, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1506	In his post, the representative from the Progress Party said that there is technology today that can be used at Mongstad – that is what was said. At the same time, the representative represents a government party and a broad majority in the Stortinget who have now said that we cannot continue in Mongstad for the reasons to which they have joined. Then the question is, is it that there have now been changes to this? What I hear is that the representative from the Progress Party now says, is that there is technology that can be used on Mongstad – that is what the representative said – and that it can now be implemented. Does this mean that you are now planning to start on Mongstad with this project and get CO2 cleaned? In that case, there's an eye-catching good news. So I hope that the representative from the Progress Party can now confirm what he said in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1516	Firstly, if there is technology available, the research department of Aker Clean Carbon has confirmed – they believe that the technology is now mature. They've driven the development of both amine technology and carbon technology there, but that's especially the amine technology they've gone on. That's the one I understand they're going to use at Norcem in Brevik. But to what extent it's at Mongstad it's to be used, or if it's about other projects, the government has to figure out when to see where to go in the further work. So that's not what I want to think about right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1521	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1524	Today’s debate is based on the National Audit Office’s study on how the Ministry of Oil and Energy ensured the achievement of the Stortinge’s CO2 management target, and not least to explain the reasons for the development of resource use and progress in the CO2 management projects for the period 2006-2012. When the majority in this case concludes that the government's work on full-scale CO2 capture and storage at the Mongstad plant is critical, it is not the first time the gas power case has created large waves in the Stortinget. We from the Christian People's Party think it is right to withdraw the lines until the first time the gas power case was put at the head of the Stortinget in the spring of 2000. It was the time when the centre government of Bondevik I chose to ask cabinet questions to prevent the construction of gaseous power plants in Norway. I think it is interesting to remember that until then, the Workers' Party had accepted the emissions permit as a prerequisite for cleaning any gas power plant on Kårstø, but in the spring of 2000 it was decided to reverse the situation. Instead of continuing to require clean-up, the Workers' Party chose to force a change to the emissions permit by saying yes to the construction of gas power stations without cleaning. The Workers' Party, together with the Right and Advance Party, went so far as to be willing to change the pollution law in order to achieve this. The Workers' Party, under the direction of Jens Stoltenberg, worked hard in Stortinget and chose to overthrow the central government of the gas power plant, and in a day like this it is in its place to remember that the Kårstø power plant without cleaning actually stands as a monument to Stoltenberg's government takeover in the spring of 2000. When the Soria Moria declaration was presented in the autumn of 2005, SV claimed to have won a historic victory, which set a final point for the gas power struggle. The party chose to send out a press release entitled ‘15 years of gas power plant struggle has ended. The environment won!" Half a year later, the winner was lost when the Workers' Party enforced that Statoil was allowed to build gas power plants on Mongstad, starting in 2010, with cleaning only in 2014. SV accepted the agreement, but required verification of the emissions permit from the Ministry of the Environment as just a rice behind the mirror to Statoil. The rest of the story we know too well: the gas power plant in Mongstad is built and operated, while the full-scale capture and storage still only live as a vision. And we know the Riksrevision's verdict on the Mongstad project. The complexity was underestimated. The TCM Centre, with its high costs, creates a reduced interest in increased industrial participation. There are few tools for good cost management and rapid progress, the framework for transport and storage of captured CO2 has not been clarified, and there are weaknesses in the Oil and Energy Ministry’s risk management and Gassnova’s internal control — to mention something. We all also remember the new year of the former Prime Minister Stoltenberg in 2007, referred to by several previous speakers, where the promises of CO2 capture and storage were made, a promise that meant that Norway would create a lunar landing project in CO2 management. A few sentences from there: ‘Our vision is that within 7 years we will put in place the technology that will enable greenhouse gas emissions to be cleaned. It will be an important breakthrough to bring down emissions in Norway, and when we succeed, I think the world will follow. This is a big project for our country. It's our moon landing." This promise to the Norwegian people was unusually clear speech. Expectations were made that the government would do what it could to fulfill what was promised, and then it is strange and disappointing to record that the government chose to go back on the promise, changed the strategy and left the pioneer role on the way, until the entire project crashed in September 2013. There is also reason to stress that the strong criticism of the National Audit Office’s report through the reference to the many weaknesses in the implementation of the CO2 management of the Mongstad project is neither new nor surprising. We in the Christian People's Party do not recognize ourselves in the statements made by former Prime Minister Stoltenberg at the Committee's hearing on 20 January. that there was broad support in the Stortingen for development and progress in the Mongstad project. On the contrary, Stortinget’s treatment of the Mongstad case shows that it has been politically controversial since its inception in 2006. The full-scale CO2 management schedule in Mongstad was a central part of the government’s political compromise that led to Statoil’s concession to build thermal power plants in 2006 without cleaning from day one. And just to underline that cleaning would come into place, in line with the timetable presented, the emissions permit was added to the Ministry of the Environment instead of to the State pollution control, as was done in connection with the gas power plant at Kårstø. We remember all the debate that was created by the government in May 2010. It was decided to postpone the investment decision by, inter alia: the result of a motion of censure against the Minister for Oil and Energy from an overall opposition, as set out by the rapporteur. So it's impossible to establish that there was broad support for development and progress in the Mongstad project. There were several voices, several critical voices. Another important element in understanding what went wrong is the changes to the emissions permit made by the Ministry of the Environment from 2006 to 2010 – the guarantee that the Soria Moria declaration would be honoured. The 2006 emissions permit states, inter alia: in point 2: ‘Full scale CO2 management from the CHP plant shall be established by 2014.’ And then we're going to go to point three. ‘The work of facilitating and implementing capture of CO2 from the cogeneration unit shall start immediately: [[...]] In 2010 it was heard as follows: ‘– The first stage of CO2 capture was to be implemented as quickly as possible and not at the same time as the start-up of the CHP plant. – The requirement to store captured CO2 from Step 1 was removed. – Full scale CO2 management from the CHP plant shall be established as soon as possible within the framework of normal industrial practice.» There can be no doubt that these changes, contrary to the promises made, have contributed – and this is perhaps one of the most serious – to undermining the credibility of environmental authorities. The National Audit Office’s report states that the complexity of the project was underestimated when the implementation agreement was signed in 2006. From the outset, there have been conflicting views between the State and Statoil on how the full-scale project was to be implemented. The government’s vision was to take on the pioneer role and assume responsibility for the realisation of one of the world’s first full-scale CO2 capture and storage facilities by 2014, which provided for the use of already existing technologies and limited opportunities for technology development and technology qualification. This was reflected in the Implementation Agreement through clear deadlines for investment decision and completion of the full scale installation and the following conditions of the emissions permit, paragraph 3, from 2006: ‘The work on the organisation and implementation of capture of CO2 from the cogeneration unit shall start immediately after the emission permit has been granted. The realization of the capture plant shall be carried out in parallel with the construction of the cogeneration unit.» Statoil wanted the full-scale project to be carried out in the same way as other major industrial projects, which meant the use of well-tested and mature technology after a thorough technology qualification. This consideration was also reflected in the Implementing Agreement in a formulation that the project should follow so-called normal industrial practices. We have to note that Statoil's preferred method of implementation was the one that finally won at Mongstad – first at the postponement in 2010 and then the government decided to restart the entire project in 2011, when it was decided to launch a three-year run for the technology qualification of four different capture technologies. I believe that the fundamental disagreement about the progress and implementation of the full-scale project, which is integrated into the Implementation Agreement, actually became an important reason for the whole failure. The following opinion by Mr Helge Lund, Head of the Group of Statoil, at its hearing on Monday 20 January 2014 illustrates this: «CCM was a major industrial and technology development project and thus gave us a very great responsibility as a project implementation. Large-scale after-cleaning of CO2 from flue gas was a little-tested technology in 2006. Both the TCM and the CCM had an ambitious schedule, which we have underlined on several occasions, including by signing up to the Master Plan of 2009, and also by different project milestones." And he continues: ‘The catch project in Mongstad has followed our well-established processes and governance documentation for implementation, i.e. implemented in the same way as we carry out other major projects.’ The weaknesses of the Implementation Agreement between Statoil and the State have been repeatedly discussed in the United Kingdom since 2006. The Christian People’s Party already questioned the Storting’s treatment of the 2007 Implementation Agreement on the embedded uncertainty in the agreement on the timing of progress and the parties’ obligation to take an investment decision in 2012. I also refer to Stortingen's treatment of the revised national budget for 2010, where the first postponement of the full-scale project was dealt with. From the adoption of the implementing agreement, it states, inter alia, that the members of the Committee from the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party «questions whether the implementation agreement between the State and Statoil on the full-scale clean-up of CO2 emissions in Mongstad contributes to the delivery of a project in budgetary terms and at the agreed time. These members point out that such an implementation agreement is designed, Statoil has no incentive to implement the project cheaply and quickly. These members point out that the incentives in the agreement indicate that Statoil takes very good account of any costs in the project since, with some exceptions, the company will be financially responsible for any excess costs.» I also refer to Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 9 for 2010–2011 on full-scale CO2 management, where the Christian People's Party in Innst. 295 S calls for the development of the full-scale CO2 capture agreement two years after it should have been in place. The reason for the delay was obvious: the implementation agreement, as it was designed, provided Statoil with financial incentives to push on the investment decision for Step 2 Full-scale cleaning. The agreement lacks, as pointed out by the Riksrevision, incentives to implement the project on time and cost, an important reason why the investment decision could still be postponed in time. At the same time, it was requested that Statoil's repeated breach of the implementation agreement should not have any consequences for the company. The following two proposals were made in connection with the examination of the case at that time: ‘The Government is asked to renegotiate the 2006 implementation agreement with a new deadline for full scale clean-up and with an incentive structure that contributes to the timely and cost implementation of the project.’ [[...]] And... ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a renegotiated implementation agreement requires the emissions from the Mongstad refinery to be cleaned.’ The proposals for the renegotiation of the implementation agreement, as has been said by this pulpit before today, only the votes of the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Stortinget. In the climate agreement, it was agreed that the full scale plant would be completed by 2020. Ever since the concession to the thermal power plant was granted and the Implementation Agreement was concluded in 2007, Stortinget has asked the government to provide alternative projects for full-scale CO2 capture and storage. The following instructions were given to the Government in the context of the Management of the 2007 Implementation Agreement: ‘The Committee asks the Government to facilitate the development of further CO2 management projects, where technology development, demonstration and qualification of Norwegian technology can start rapidly.’ We later discovered that the government of Stoltenberg did not come back to Stortinget at any time with an investigation of alternative projects for full-scale CO2 capture and storage beyond Mongstad. We had expected the outgoing government to follow up work on alternative projects, so that the Storting's goal of achieving at least one full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020 could have been achieved. Unfortunately, we have to note that the possibilities and assumptions of the present government to achieve this goal are now becoming very demanding and difficult. So a few words about the way the cutting of the full scale on Mongstad was done. On 20 September 2013, a press release was issued by the then oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe and the then environmental protection minister Bård Vegar Solhjell. I quote: ‘Full scale CO2 capture at Mongstad is phased out and replaced by a CO2 capture and storage programme.’; Here, the scrapping of the Mongstad project was produced as a new strategy that would strengthen the CO2 management process. I must say that it was with great wonder that we read this message – a press release which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, was misleading and suitable to mislead readers about the facts in the matter. For the fact was that the resigned government's work on full-scale CO2 management had ended up in a disaster both at Mongstad and at Kårstø. There was not a single concrete alternative project for full-scale CO2 management when the government left the offices. To present the final scrapping as a strengthening of the investment in CO2 management, I have to say, appears to be a little credible. And when, in the hearing of the Control Committee on 4 February 2014, Solhell directly asked what alternative projects he had in mind, the answer was: "I don't want to go into that right now. It was perfectly conscious that we did not produce a project. I expect everyone here knows the Gassnova study that works on different projects. Now I understand that the government is fortunately working on a new strategy, and that we will get more information about it in the context of the revised national budget.’ In other words, it is quite obvious that the outgoing government at all did not have alternative plans that could strengthen the full-scale CO2 management effort in line with the Stortinge climate settlement. Unfortunately, the moon landing project by the government of Stoltenberg ended up as a crash landing. One of the most obvious environmental policy commitments from the red-green government to the voters was not met. Despite warnings in the course of the project, in order to organise and organise it – especially by the Christian People's Party, as I have documented – they chose to hold a firm course in relation to an implementation agreement that clearly underestimated the complexity and limitations of governance, and without having a clear organisational and legal framework for the transport and storage of captured CO2. As a result of this disaster, the potential for achieving the climate policy objectives by 2020 has been greatly reduced. The concern of the Christian People's Party – and I am sure that the concern that we have expressed in the course of the process, we share with others here – that the Mongstad project acted as a postponement of fundamental climate responsibility in the Norwegian oil and gas industry, has unfortunately proved to be right. Unfortunately, there is a basis for concluding that the work of the former government on full-scale CO2 capture and storage at the Mongstad plant has been critical. There is now an urgent need to organise new and important interventions, which I see as a major consensus in the hall, so that full-scale demonstration facilities can still be ready by 2020. But the consequence of the Mongstad project is unfortunately that Norwegian climate policy has been set back many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1731	I ignore the setting - and of previous settings - that the Christian People's Party is trying to then doubt cancer and amine. Then I wonder if the representative thinks that a responsible state council should proceed with a project if there is the slightest likelihood that the population will be exposed to an increasing risk of cancer. Would the representative then have chosen to conceal this uncertainty for the population and possibly be willing to say that CO2 management is more important than health for the population?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1739	It is clear that health is important, and when this was achieved through the project, we also believe that it was important to investigate the hazards, challenges and consequences associated with this. There is no disagreement on this, nor on the part of the Christian People's Party. What has also been shown, as the hearing has shown, is that there are slightly different assessments of the size of this hazard. Among other things, we have received opinions from the Environment Directorate in our country, which may consider this danger to be overestimated. So our perception is that the kind of danger should of course be taken seriously, but we also need to have a realistic approach to the size of the father.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1744	I hear what the representative is answering me here. He says it was "overestimated". Then I just want to ask the question again: If there was any doubt that there was a cancer risk, do you think that the previous government should only have gone ahead with the project, regardless of that danger?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1750	It is absolutely right that when a hazard is detected it should be investigated. It was done. Then it turns out there are different professional experts and advice on the extent and size of that danger. Here we believe that there is a basis for saying from professional opinions that this danger might seem to be overestimated, and that it was possible to continue this project based on this technology without creating an unnecessary health hazard among the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1755	First of all, I would like to say that the Christian People's Party has at least had a fairly coherent policy in this area, and I think that is why it should be commended. When it comes to the question of amine, I'm probably a little more in doubt, because now the representative says that you think the questions are overrated. But this is not a new topic; this was also up before the issue of mistrust proposals was up, and the year before, the Committee had noticed the uncertainty about the health use of amine technology. It seemed, however, that the Christmas evening came on the ring when the matter came up again, and then the representative Hemdal from the Christian People's Party said that they had never said yes to the construction of the aminent part if they had been familiar with what appeared in the report. "There is no one on the Storting who knowingly and willfully gambles with people's health in this way," she said. Does the representative nevertheless think that the decision the government made was wrong when it came to taking people's health first?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1762	No, by no means. It is clear that when such a hazard is detected, it shall be investigated and an assessment of the scope and consequences shall be made. So there's no disagreement about it. Then it has turned out in retrospect that one can evaluate the size and extent of this danger in a slightly different way. This has also been documented in the hearing held by the Monitoring Committee – this is where it has emerged that there is a slightly different view of the consequences. But that there was a stop and an assessment of what this danger meant, we believe that it is clearly in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1767	First, I am impressed by the way the Christian People's Party has followed this case – seen clearly and talked clearly over several years. That's what it's going to do, as far as I can see. On the basis of that, and because the main point of this control review is to try to learn from the project implementation, I wonder what are the Christian People's Party's main conclusions regarding the further use and organisation of carbon capture and storage projects in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1772	Thank you for nice words to the Christian People's Party. I think you have a lot to learn in more areas. One is about the conclusion of agreements between the State and a commercial company on how to manage a project based on the overall objectives of the project. It is clear that there is no incentive here, one would have put all the risk on the state and very little on the company. Otherwise, I think that such a project as this also requires opening in order to be able to use different technology solutions more effectively than what was the case as this race was set up. Statoil followed what they call a normal industrial practice. We think it was a constraint in itself, which took from several environments of competence an opportunity to participate and contribute in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1779	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1782	This is an incredibly big thing. It's an incredibly complicated matter, it's a demanding matter, and it's an important matter to learn from. Norway needs to do a real job by reducing CO2 emissions from fossil carbon. We need to get a much more professional, knowledge-based debate. I must say that it is regrettable that there are no more in the Chamber, not least members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment. The Control Committee - we'll look back. The most important thing in this case is the consequences it will have in the future. As many people have felt, when we are there, there are many who have a considerable, great responsibility for it. I think both position and opposition, now and before, have quite equal responsibilities. The majority of the Committee proposes that decisions be taken to: ‘Finds the work of the former government with full-scale CO2 capture and storage at the Mongstad plant critical’. The centre party does not join that conclusion. The implementation agreement, the starting point for the investments, was adopted unanimously in Stortinget in May 2007. Former State Councillor Ola Borten Moe replied to the Riksrevision: «The design of the implementation agreement addresses the uncertainty and complexity of the implementation of CO2 management in Mongstad.» The investment decision, the technology centre, took place by a unanimous increase in January 2009 and by a unanimous increase in May 2009. Suffering if there was disagreement about other parts of Mongstad, the new project model proposed by the Red-Greens in 2011 was positively referred to by an overall Energy and Environment Committee in Innst. 295 S for 2010–2011. As many people have been involved, there has been unanimity in the Stortinget by the main crossroads. The size is briefed in a number of documents with related debates. The size has been informed, information has not been withheld. Mr Raja said: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and former Minister for Oil and Energy and Minister for Environmental Protection would not deny that the government had actually decided to close the CCS at an earlier date than September 2013. I would also like to make it clear from the Central Party that these are seaworthy answers from Prime Minister and Councils. State council Ola Borten Moe replied in an exemplary way in the hearing and subsequent radio and television debates on the claims of Raja, and Raja did not come any way from the core of the case. Having said that, I would also like to say that, in retrospect, there should be greater clarity in what has been presented in the debate. There should have been more transparent information. One should have had a much more popularization of the complex and much more a lashing in the subjects that form the basis for the political decisions. One should understand to a much greater extent the principle solutions for CCS. One should have a much more precise concept, which I will get into later. This is something that we all have to take responsibility for. The core of the matter is climate; it is that the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere is increasing, which in turn leads to warming and changing the climate. In the United Nations climate report, one has now said that there is better scientific evidence that increased CO2 in the atmosphere is man-made; this is better scientifically documented than that cigarette smoking is harmful to health. I hope that sentence gets attached to everyone, and I noticed with joy what the speaker of the Advancement Party said here today, and that that recognition is now in place with him – very happy. What source of CO2 are we talking about here? Well, we're talking about the combustion of fossil carbon. It's the fossil carbon combustion and the CO2 that's coming, which is the challenge. It is precisely the point of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that it is man-made. There are people who can slow down the growth, which can reduce the combustion of fossil carbon, as opposed to, for example: that people can do something about that we're now getting increased methane from the fact that the tundra is thawing. Human beings can do little about it, but here we're talking about something human beings can do about it. It's a professional fact that we can't separate the one carbon atom from the two oxygen atoms in the molecule CO2. It can only happen in one way: through photosynthesis. Photosynthesis works in the sea and on land, in animals and plants that are there, animals that live on plants and other organisms. Some thought the vision of moon landing was a technological copy of photosynthesis, and when it was used the term "cleansing of CO2", it was an association that one here was going to face something where one could distinguish the carbon atom from the two oxygen atoms in CO2. That wasn't the point. It's never been the vision. I hope no one lives in that faith. What was the vision of Mongstad, on the other hand, was that we should have the capture and storage of CO2 – CCS – that many have used without really being aware of what it means: Carbon Capture and Storage – carbon capture and storage. That's why I'm hammering on the concept, because it's so crucial. In the case of climate action, we must have three thoughts in our head simultaneously after the assessment of the Centre Party: We need to mitigate the consumption of fossil carbon through economic instruments, charges, for example, and regulation. We need to capture and store CO2 from large exhaust emissions, as we are now discussing. We must promote the production and use of renewable carbon from cod, spruce and thymotry. So we're talking in the third point about what's called the bioeconomy, where biorefineries are a central element, as opposed to fossil carbon, where you have oil refineries. Conceptual use in the past and now in the context of full-scale installations in Mongstad, as mentioned earlier, has been unclear. One has talked about CO2 handling, CO2 cleaning, CO2 capture and storage. It is also said that fossil energy – yes, the point is that it is much more precise ‘fossil carbon’, which can also be used for energy in case of combustion, which then gives exhaust gas. Lack of precision in conceptual use contributes to the failure of the climate debate to deliver better results in Norway. The intention of Mongstad investments and Mongstad plans was good, yes very good. There were bold purposes to that. The test center, TCM, at Mongstad, has done the job. That's good. It's a huge cost and the greatest cost of what we're discussing today. About 5 billion. kr is connected to the test centre. Following the assessment of the Centre Party and the assessment of many other parties, it is important to further develop the work of the Test Centre, in order to increase knowledge so that we can have lower costs, both investment costs and operating costs, at capture and storage facilities, and to improve the quality of the work done – both price and quality. What is serious in the Mongstad case is the CCS plant, capture and storage full scale. It's now scolded – I want to say in this round. Everyone knew that CCS was expensive and difficult. We didn't make it. The center party has a separate note in the setting, where we ‘shows that, after the Riksrevision completed its report, two governments and a total collapse have stopped the construction of the CCS. This fact shows that the Mongstad project has not been successful. The review of the National Audit Office and the Committee’s hearings have confirmed that the Mongstad project was set up in such a way that it was difficult to succeed’. The centre party «does not believe that the contractual structure, incentives or key actors functioned as intended». Practically speaking, the project manager did not control the value chain, and — in retrospect — the instruments did not function properly. Because what are we really talking about? Well, in my opinion, we are practically talking about establishing an industrial plant – a large, large industrial plant. And what is the raw material in that industrial plant? Well, it's exhaust gas. The raw material is exhaust gas, which should come from two sources. One was the oil refinery, and the other was the gas power plant. The sum was approx. 2 million tonnes. It was an oil refinery, it was a gas power plant with two turbines. Then there was early uncertainty about the economy of the oil refinery and the lifetime of the oil refinery. Could a bet that one got that exhaust from the oil refinery? And then there was also uncertainty about the gas power plant – will there be two turbines, or will there be one, or what will it be? So one didn't control the availability of raw material. And then that's the question of the product. The product was CO2. Whether I am going to use the term ‘price of CO2’, ‘cost of CO2’, will depend on the position I see it from. But it's a product called CO2, and it's at least related to economics. And when the person who was going to build this industrial plant, and not least the one who was going to operate this industrial plant, which was not the state, did not know the supply or the value of the product, you are in trouble. After my assessment, we are here at some of the things that are practically demanding about the case. And as if that weren't enough, it wasn't just to catch it, one should also deposit it. And then someone had to find a place where you had a geological formation that was so that it stayed there and didn't come up again. It was expected that CO2 could be used as a pressure aid and thus have a positive value for oil and gas activities. It was made clear that that relationship was not present. So it was a significant change. And then to the seventh and last, the geological formations. I don't know enough geology to say what it's like, but I notice that in the discussion around Europe and elsewhere, you're very ‘hands on’ on it, namely whether the geological formations are safe, so it doesn't come up. One thing is under normal conditions, something else is related to the geology and the Earth's crust and everything is changing. It is also unclear who would pay the bill, get any profit in operating the plant. In order to reduce anthropogenic emissions of CO2 from fossil carbon, we have to have three thoughts in our head at the same time. One, reducing fossil carbon consumption, two, increasing the production and use of renewable carbon so that these products can replace fossil carbon products, and three, the current points, namely CCS, with capture and storage at high point emissions. It has to be in place, but it's very expensive. Investment is very expensive and it is very expensive to operate, and it is also very energy-intensive. About 10-20 pst. of the energy that we are treating here must be used to operate the plant. It also helps us in the capture and storage of fossil carbon in the form of CO2 to get an increased price of fossil carbon. And cutting CO2 emissions from fossil carbon, CCS, costs a lot for a country, both in a conversion phase and in an operational phase. We need to do something, and the other country Norway can afford to do it, we have good advice. It's a political choice. It's a huge social responsibility because we're facing a paradigm shift that, in our view, needs to be prioritised. That's a big question. And to get the people's support to do something like that, we have to explain it in a way that far more understands than what we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1927	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1930	It is changing government councils from the Central Party who have run the Ministry of Oil and Energy throughout the period covered by the National Audit Office's report. What responsibility does the Centre Party feel that the full scale project has been a total disaster? Is responsibility primarily due to the lack of follow-up of Stoltenberg with its specialist councils, or is responsibility primarily due to the lack of follow-up by the specialist councils themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1935	First of all, I have to say that the debate that led to a commitment to the capture and storage of CO2 in Mongstad was good, it was the centre party. But what turned out then was that the intentions and objectives you had in terms of full-scale capture and storage were not achieved. The responsibility for this lies with an overall government college. Of course, there is a special responsibility on those who were expert councillors, but with whom everyone is familiar in a government, one acts collectively. It's not least essential that one here sees the whole thing in it. And then, look afterwards, we see that it didn't work. But I'm proud that we've been involved in raising the case and still keeping the flag to realize full scale CCS facilities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1944	Thank you, Mr Lundteg. I think it was a very good attempt to actually answer and also to take some self-criticism. I think it makes sense that you do, especially when you have such a large and thorough report from the Riksrevision lying on the table. I asked a question to the representative of Kolberg, but there was no answer from there, so I would like to ask the same question to the representative of Lundtegen. The National Audit Office's report brings forward a number of critical points. The cost control of the project has been too poor, the incentives that have been set up have been too poor, the follow-up has been too poor, etc. etc. Where does the representative, Lundtegen, feel that the criticism is best and harshest in relation to the outgoing government? Could the representative Lundteg have said anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1954	I feel that many of the words used here, i.e. cost control and follow-up, are words that are seaworthy and central, but what I tried to say in my post is that this is a large industrial plant where the raw material is exhaust gas and the product CO2. And it's the framework around making this industrial project function purely real-political and real-economic, which is the great weakness of the matter, that one has not been in control of the necessary, major factors that make this possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1962	The first line was based on the fact that the Central Party has clothed the most relevant department throughout the lifetime of the red-green government, and it was black that the Council of Oil and Energy States had no special significance, that it had to be understood that it was a community, so I need to ask more specifically: has it at all had any positive significance, from the view of the Central Party, that people have been supplied to lead the country's oil and energy department? And what example can be drawn in this case from the fact that some of the central government councils have contributed in the right direction, and that the matter would be even worse if the central party had not been responsible for the department?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1967	I think it would have been real that someone was trying to represent me correctly. The government is a collective body. Everyone is responsible for the decision. And I said it's a special responsibility for the professional council. I can repeat this to the representative Tetzschner: whoever is a specialist council member has a special responsibility within the collective body – maritime speaking. So it's also, since it's a collective body, neither right nor possible to say that the central party in government has done something special, because one has emerged, and appears, as a unit. What was the significant contribution from the Central Party in that matter was that one in connection with the establishment of the government got this matter on the agenda, and one in view of the seriousness of the desire to take a bold grip. And then we know the rest and how it's gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1976	It must be followed up when it is answered as carefully as it is done. Having acknowledged that the expert councils have a responsibility, I would very much like to hear if there has been any positive contribution at all by one of the central government councils in these eight years who have brought this matter in a more correct and better direction than the final result, which we can read. Would the matter be even worse if the Centre party had not contributed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1981	The answer to that question is yes, the centre party has contributed positively. Otherwise, I have answered the question earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e1986	The representative, Lundtigen, pointed out that this is a large and complicated industrial project, and that there were conditions that were not conducive to the completion of the project. Now there is something that will characterize any carbon capture project: it will be unprofitable, it will be complicated, it will be more or less mature technology, etc. The question is: is it to be implemented anyway? At the hearing, one of the things that made many of us a little confused was that one central actor after another assumed that the project could be carried out: the technology providers said that the technology existed, Gassnova thought the project would continue, etc. So then I ask – because we got nothing more from the central party councils at the hearing – the representative Lundtegegen what is the basis for his conclusion that this project should not be carried out. Then, of course, I'm adding to that price, which everyone was worried about...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2003	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2006	... had been known for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2011	The price had not been known and is not known – it is now. There is no main argument that it was complicated, that it was technologically demanding – that is not what is crucial in this case, which has been discussed by many. The point of profitability, what is profitable, is the issue of policy framework conditions. It is the policy framework conditions that define what is profitable. It is clear that the capture of CO2 requires the creation of profitability if private operators are to do so. There's a social responsibility that there's far too little focus on. What was the problem with this was – as I said – that one did not have predictability of the amount of raw material, namely exhaust gas, and one did not know what the price of the product was. If it were to be a private operator operating it, it would, in my view, create major problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2023	When the implementation agreement was written in 2006, it was Enoch who was the Council of State. When the Master Plan was presented in 2009, Terje Riis-Johansen was the Council of State. When Step 2 of the Development Agreement came, it was Ola Borten Moe who was the Council of State, and he was that from March 2011 until the lay-in – i.e. for two and a half years. Is it thus the view of the representative Lundtigen that it is Ola Borten Moe who must bear a large part of the responsibility for not having closely followed up this project, or is it primarily the responsibility of former Prime Minister Stoltenberg, who presented this great project of performance to the nation of Norway in the new year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2030	The last oil and energy minister, Ola Borten Moe, was not least driven too hard in the hearing and afterwards and responded in an excellent way to my understanding. He acted firmly and consistently, with a message, has done a good job, in the same way as the other two central party councils to which the representative referred. It is a collective college of government that has carried these plans forward. We know the result. We must – everyone who was the parliamentary basis for the government – take responsibility for the failure to do so. But we had bold goals, we want to continue with it, and the opposition did not come up with better suggestions when a discussed case eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2038	I have heard the representative Lundtigen say that he shares much of what has been stated in the Riksrevision's report. That report is very clear on many points – in terms of cost control, incentives, contractual structure, Gassnova, follow-up, etc. Then you have to ask the question to the representative Lundteg – which I now give a new opportunity to answer: Is the responsibility for this failure primarily on the specialist councils, or is the failure primarily Stoltenberg's?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2043	I can respond slowly one more time: the responsibility for the development of the Mongstad plant in the red-green period rests on the entire government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2048	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2051	This issue needs to be seen in the light of the fact that the world is facing major challenges in order to manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, so that we do not exceed the two-degree target. Power generation and other use of energy based on fossil energy carriers are the main sources of emissions. If energy needs are to be met globally, we will probably not be able to escape fossil energy carriers in the near future. CO2 capture and storage is therefore essential if we are not to have dramatic growth in greenhouse gas emissions far beyond what the climate can withstand. Norway and the world have committed themselves to this. There's some background for the Mongstad project coming. Mongstad was important because there was a breakthrough for political agreement on CO2 capture and storage in Norway. There was no agreement whatsoever about it in advance. It is at least a political consensus that is crucial if we are to move on. Technologically, great progress has been made, and so political progress has been made, so if, after the debate here today, I am a little uncertain as to whether the consensus actually stands. There were large sums of money spent on Mongstad, but compared to a lot of other things, it's not that big. It was used across 7 billion. kr, and 5 brd. kr of them have been used at the test centre. When, on the basis of the majority of the debate, it seems that this money has wasted little of itself, they say that they are critical of the use of money, with the exception of the Technology Centre. It's a recognition of what's achieved there, and I really hope it's a majority for that. Then it's like you have to dare bet big to solve the serious climate problems. Then you can't just go on projects where you're 100 pst. ensuring that targets are met. But the Mongstad bet has until now left itself four important things. We have a test center that stands, that goes, that can and must be used in the future work. We have built up skills, technology development and learning in Norway. It's not irrelevant. The agreement to expand full-scale facilities is – it has been established in the 2014 budget procedure in Stortinget – and it is important to move forward. And there is a political consensus that no new gas power plant will be built without CO2 cleaning. It's now part of the climate agreement. I've looked up in the media today, and there the Oil Directorate shows that they've found even more oil. But then we can wonder if it should be taken up, and then how. I know of both the political forces and the economic forces that want to do so, which may not have CO2 management and climate at the top of their agenda. So I think we'll get enough to do in the future. The starting point here was that SV was quite clear that the removal of CO2 emissions also had to apply to Norwegian gas power plants. They were the strong forces that pressed forward, despite the fact that we then knew about the climate damage. A breakthrough in the idea of CO2 capture and storage has been made deep inside Norway. It didn't come about because there were commercial interests that pushed it out, or because someone saw a future as a technology developer for capture and storage and having an important role for future-oriented solutions to climate problems. CO2 capture and storage was politically driven forward. Hopefully, the political consensus on the capture and storage of CO2 is solid. I'll come back to it a little bit, because I have a lot of magazine back in the story of this matter and looked at what the different parties have meant along the way. It cracks in many directions. In the long term, CO2 management must be cost-effective in order to compete on equal terms with other climate measures. Development projects will be expensive. The development of CO2 capture technologies is demanding and there will always be uncertainty in the development of technologies from the research stage to scale-up to the industrial scale. There have been many challenges with the Mongstad project. The agreement the state made with Statoil was not optimal, and given that Statoil may never have acted to become the leading company for CO2 capture and storage, the job became difficult. Politically, this was a compromise. The decision on the Technology Centre and CO2 capture and storage was the classic compromise that we have seen in Stortinget many times, where the major parties – the Workers' Party, the Advance Party and the Right – have been strong supporters of gas power stations without reservation of capture and storage. The temperature has sometimes been very high. It has, among other things, The representative of the Christian People's Party was up and witnessed. The Bondevik I government actually asked to throw at this question, and SV supported that government's view. SV, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have all opposed gas power stations without CO2 management, because climate emissions had to decrease. This compromise was present in the previous government when the matter was negotiated and driven forward. The compromise is also mentioned in today's vote. Reference is made to the importance of achieving two objectives in Mongstad: ‘The importance of facilitating the capture and storage of CO2 at the CHP plant and the upgrading and development of the Mongstad refinery was a large industrial project with ring-effects in the region.’ This compromise lives on between today's government and the partners, the Left and Christian People's Party. Suffering if SV has now managed to do this job, which means that we have established that the principle is firm, I think it is a job to do by sticking to this compromise in the future, especially when new oil extraction opportunities are waving in the distance. Gradually, the vision of those batches that have previously had no concerns about operating on gas power plants without cleaning changes. We can read that in the position from the Energy and Environment Committee to the 2014 budget. This is all evidence that, in the light of our international commitments, we need to reduce CO2 emissions, and Norway will have an ambition to realise at least one full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020. Everyone agrees on that now. Everyone also acknowledges that the use of capture and storage technologies is demanding, but progress has been made in the development of technology in the last decade on which it can be built. Everyone agrees. It also states that the Committee has noted that the Technology Centre in Mongstad was established with the aim of creating an arena for the long-term targeted development of testing and qualification of CO2 capture technologies. When the government of Stoltenberg decided to complete the planning work on the full-scale project at Mongstad, it of course attracted attention. On the basis of the completion of the project, all parties in the budgetary position – with the exception of the members of the Green Party – say that the development of CO2 management technologies is essential to our objectives, and that the majority supports Norway's ambition to play a leading role in the future. That's good. I'm worried about the consensus ahead and that it can trace off. You can go on and learn from this. Then you have to be 100 pst. set to do what's in your power to do it. Some of the turmoil that arises comes from the fact that the party that did not support this proposal initially is in charge of the ministry that is going to achieve the decisive and difficult goal. The Mongstad project has been complex. Most of the investments that have been made have been made in the test centre – and used. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Oil and Energy strengthen its efforts to establish legal and commercial framework conditions for CO2 capture and storage. It has to, and the lessons can be many. It is not the use of money in itself that scares, because it will cost money to realise climate goals. But it'll be incredibly much more expensive both in money and in suffering if we don't make it. The fear I have is that the mood in this case scares others from trying, because you're not quite sure to get it done. Then the criticism of those who try is bone-hard. That criticism I have noticed is harder than the criticism of those who initially did not want to add two sticks to the cross in order to get this added. It's a cross of thought, which I think at least parties that want to be environmental parties should notice. The criticism of today’s majority – almost, with the exception of the Christian People’s Party – of the majority who have joined the whole process of dealing with matters is, in my view, most politically justified. The part based on the Riksrevision report has been answered also by former oil ministers, current oil minister and other ministers. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has also responded positively to many of the changes proposed in the report. There is an exchange of views in the Riksrevision report that I think is a bit of a rush into this debate. There's a lot of these things that you've seen and said to change. So, initially, there has been criticism of the agreement. Several state councils said in the hearing that the agreement reflected the outcome that could be achieved in negotiations. I expect that there are more people here in the room who have read the book of Kristin Halvorsen, former party leader in SV, who is called the Review. Those who haven't done it can read there. It's an open-minded version of considerations and dragonfights and how different interests have played out along the way. There's a lot of afterwatch that goes on here too, and it's in this light that everyone has a better view. But that's what we knew, and what was the space of action in our day, which is the reality that needs to be assessed here. The question is: Did the Storting get the necessary information, and did the government respond correctly to the Storing? The answer to that is yes. The size has required information along the way. They have received that, and it also confirms – as far as I can see – the current oil and energy minister, Tord Lien, in his letters to the Stortinget, also during the questioning in the verification hearing. Nor has anything been found in the hearing, or in the current government's response in the case, which confirms that the Storting has been misinformed or has not received the necessary information. I'll go back a little bit. In the course of this history, a mistrust proposal has been made in the past. The Right Party and the Advance Party promoted mistrust proposals on the basis of an uncertainty that they knew about, because they had written comments on it in the submissions on the matter the previous year. When the matter comes up, it is believed that you have not been informed. It is very strange that you are able to write comments about this year before and then in retrospect say that you are not informed. The same applies to the case of amines, which I was in the first place. At that time it was especially Christian People's Party that was very high on the track and thought they had not had access to this information before. But it's very easy to turn back in the settings and show that it says that the Committee has noticed the uncertainty about the health aspects of the use of amine technology. When the matter comes up, you get furious and say that you are not informed about the matter, and that you would never agree with anything if you had known this, because now at the last round you have doubts about these dangers – at least during the examination of the matter – that you would have overestimated them, and that you should actually go further with this. I would say that the uncertainty surrounding the amine was so great, especially related to the scaling up, that SV politically assessed that it was unacceptable to take such a risk, both technically and politically, before they could confirm that this was safe and not a risk of serious emissions. The risk of the spread of carcinogens is serious and obviously has to be taken seriously both by public authorities and companies, and when there was uncertainty about this amine cleaning technology, it would be irresponsible to go further before this was resolved. I think the most unreasonable criticism of the case comes when one conspires to spread doubts about the decision to stop the plant in Mongstad – about whether that decision was taken at a different time than when it was actually taken. There is no secret that there have been discussions about this, because it has also contributed to the Storting. The size has received information all the way about the complexity and difficulty of these matters. But when several state councils in the hearing, where the committee has the opportunity to ask about this, are not satisfied with the answer when one confirms that the decision was taken at the time it was actually taken – I can tell the secret that I was surprised when it came, so I knew nothing about it – it becomes a debate technique that is impossible to deal with. This isn't about the facts, it's about wanting to spread a conspiratory view that this was something you held back. I can't in my wildest imagination see who would profit from it at all. SV doesn't earn it. There is no one who serves to ensure that we are not able to implement CO2 capture and storage in Mongstad – no one serves it. I think everyone is disappointed that there was no way. But the government made the decision when it made the decision. And when you don't believe what's being said, you go on pretending that you have a right to know the content of files that go internally in the government. I guess it's not right that the Storting has a right to that. It is not constitutional practice, and as constitutional practice it would be completely impossible. That's not how no government I know worked, and that's not the way the government that's sitting now, nor is it going to work – I think – sail if the government parties aren't behind the remark. It is only the Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the SV who are behind the remark that it is not reasonable for the Storting to require transparency in the government's internal proceedings and procedural documents. The majority knows only the government, and there is one government. We can't have different opinions at different times. Some debates, for example: matters sent to the hearing are discussed, but then the state councils participating in that change of words must represent the government at any time. You don't go out with the opinions of individual state councils at different times. I think it's about whether there's one or three parties in government. As I have knowledge of party politics, it is true that there are different opinions internally in parties too – probably also in governments where there is only one party. That is why I have asked during a line change why several parties do not support the comment that suggests that internal discussions in the government will not be presented to the Stortinget in the future either. Finally, I would like to say that if you don't dare to make a big effort to solve major climate problems, you'll never be able to do it. The world is now facing challenges that I think few of us really have the energy to think about. It's not really about any of us sitting in this room, it's about my grandchildren – everyone's grandchildren – and the great-grandchild. Then we – also this government that is now sitting, if they're going to solve that problem – come to do some grip in good sense that probably won't be 100 pst. Intestinal disorders. But I'm going to promise that we will support it, because we need to find solutions to get rid of dangerous greenhouse gas from the atmosphere. The important thing for the future is that we find the good solutions, that we learn from what has been done, and that we are all behind the consensus that has been negotiated in the Storting, that we are responsible for reducing our emissions. I'm excited about the challenges we're facing now, when it turns out that there's a lot more oil found in the Norwegian sector, and that parts of it actually have to stay in place if we're going to be able to achieve these goals. It will be a great and politically difficult pleasure in the future. But SV has to do its job to make it a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2184	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2187	A review tone in this debate is how easily the former government parties take on the fact that the community has probably lost 7 billion. kr on this project. The contribution of the representative, Karin Andersen, stated that 7 billion. NOK was not a very large sum. Ordinary people probably look at it a little differently, because it is those who are going to work and tax income to provide politicians with money they can invest. Based on what Andersen today knows about Mongstad, I wanted to ask: if she got the election again, she would use 7 billion. kr at the test centre as it stands today, or she would have considered using this money for example. building hospitals or improving public transport, which in themselves could also have had a more effective environmental dimension?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2194	If we had succeeded in CO2 capture and storage in Mongstad, 7 billion. kr has not been a large sum at all. Most of this money has been used for the test centre, and the test centre is not wasted money at all. I know that the Right chooses to use its billions – according to SV's view – quite little focused on something other than making the richest in this country richer. That's what you spend billions of dollars on without turning a blind eye. So the representative Tetzschner challenges me to a strange exercise that says that if you could live your life again, would you have done everything the same? I'm not going to be in that game. This matter is about what we knew in our day, and the political opportunities that were in our day, and I did not register at the time that the Right was of special help in getting CO2 capture and storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2207	I asked the question to get a bearing on it at all is something the representative has learned from the Riksrevision's report. Then I think it's very natural to ask, as the test center now says, if you're comfortable with the fact that it's cost 7 billion. kr. Then we're not talking about what would have happened if you had succeeded, then we're talking about the center as it says, with the price tag it has. I also remind you that the price tag may be even higher, because this revision does not go further than out in 2012. So my question is again, would she use these 7 billion dollars? kr on the purpose we see realized today, or would she consider building a nursing home or improving other public schemes with even better climate action than this, for example. public transport? It's a very concrete question that I expect a concrete answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2214	I don't think Tetzschner heard very well after my post, because I referred to what the Riksrevision has said. And I said that in correspondence with the department in the course of the case, the department has responded positively to many of the Riksrevision's points, and in the comments we also end up with several of them. I believe that we should learn from this, and that is also stated in the comments. It's a lot to learn, but it's hard today to say what you would do eight to nine years ago with this knowledge right there and then. It's hard to say, but that SV would have used 7 billion. kr – and much more than that – to solve the climate problems, yes it is certain, and we tried to use the opportunities that existed there and then. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in everything, but I am not at all sorry that we tried.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2219	We are all aware that we currently have gas power plants at Kårstø and Mongstad, both of which have zero capture and storage of CO2. SV has now been in government for eight years. What has been the SV's environmental policy victory in the Mongstad case, as it stands today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2227	Firstly, we have now reached a political agreement that it should be CO2 capture and storage. That point of view was SV and the Christian People's Party and the Left for a long time quite alone. We have now reached a consensus, a broad majority – including among parties that have not previously intended this – that can now further form the basis for what we can achieve. We have got to a test centre, we have gained a lot of experience, and SV got to a number of others, not insignificant, large climate and environmental victories in government. Among other things, we did. To keep the Lofoten and the West Pole oil-free, and I think the representative of the Christian People's Party knows that at the moment we had stepped aside, there would have been a majority here in this Chamber to open it – and it's worth a lot for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2236	I'm absolutely sure SV really wanted this. I am absolutely convinced of that. I have also read the book for Kristin Halvorsen and I know many of the SV's representatives, so I am absolutely sure you wanted this. Unfortunately, it is also a fact that the Ministry of the Environment has been run by SV, and it was contrary to SFT's recommendations that it should be given the emissions permit, as one chose to do. Then Helen Bjørnøy was the Council of State. Then that emission permit was eroded in December 2010, when it was Erik Solheim who was the Council of State, and so it fell completely away while Solhjell was the Council of State. The question then has to be asked: How critical is Andersen’s representative of his own government’s handling of this in the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2243	The background to these decisions being taken along the way was, of course, also the subject of the hearing, and in which the state councils responsible for this, in my opinion, responded quite clearly to the committee that there was a change in the case, so that it was not possible to implement it the way it had been planned. And so what you did was what was politically and technically possible, and the reason why we tried and tried, and tried again, was that we wanted to succeed, and I think it's important to notice – that you've tried it. That you didn't succeed, I'm disappointed – I'm not the least afraid to say it – because this is an important matter. It is much more important than what SV thinks about other parties, or what the left had to say about SV. That's the thing that's important, and we have to succeed. That's why I'm a little worried about this angle you have all the time – that you're looking for scapegoats and not for solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2248	I agree with Mr Andersen that we have to succeed, and it is important that we also have follow-up, and that is what I find in the Riksrevision report, that we have not had the necessary follow-up to the project, and that is what is also worth criticising. I have noticed that the representative Bård Vegar Solhjell – as Minister for the Environment – wrote a chronicle in Today's Business in September last year. He wrote there, among others.\t\t You can change the "Statoil has not yet pressed this project. Nor have we had a good enough agreement with them to provide incentives, and to use sanctions, to drive the work forward.» I have to ask this question to the representative Andersen: is it then Statoil's fault that you have not kept the pressure up, or is it primarily the task of the state to ensure that the one you have agreed with actually does the job you are going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2260	It is the government's responsibility to implement what is the policy of the Storting and the government. So that's what the representative Raja is now referring to, some explanations of why it became difficult. Those explanations have been made public, so they are not secret, but it is clear that the government is responsible for it being carried out – on behalf of the government, or on behalf of what the Storting has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2267	The next replicant is the representative of Rasmus Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2270	I'm rejecting that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2275	Representative Abid Q. Raja has asked for a reply – please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2278	We have to make use of the opportunity, because it's the outgoing government that has something to explain and defend here. I have also asked this question to the representative of Kolberg, but there we did not get a clear answer. After all, the National Audit Office has presented a large and comprehensive report, highlighting a number of elements to which they are critical: the lack of cost control of the project by the government, the necessary follow-up of the project, the poor tools given to Gassnova to follow up the project, the lack of incentive to drive the project, etc., etc. What does Andersen’s representative think is the most striking criticism of the Riksrevision, and what is the most difficult for the red-green government – the outgoing red-green government – to accept from the criticism that has come from the Riksrevision report?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2287	The president would point out that it was good that Abid Q. Raja joined the "departed" government. We don't have a red-green government right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2290	First of all, parts of the Riksrevision report — and criticism — have been mentioned in the report itself, in the correspondence between the Ministry and the Riksrevision, where some of these issues have been clarified. But what I think you're underestimating today is the complexity and the framework that lay around it to make this work at all. So, what was it even possible to do, to get this work started? I think you underestimate it. In the light of the postwar clock, there are a lot of things you can point to – it is always. But there were very difficult negotiations, and that was what it was possible to obtain a majority. In retrospect, the Riksrevision has criticised parts of it. Part of it may be possible to join, and part of it I think is something that is easy to look at afterwards, but that was neither possible nor visible at the time the decisions were made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2297	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2301	The role of the National Audit Board and the Audit Board and the Constitutional Committee is to be a follow-up. We are going to place responsibility for how the Storting decision has been followed up, and most importantly, of course, we are going to lay the groundwork for learning from the decisions that have been made, so that we can make better decisions in the future. Therefore, I would first like to say a little bit about how I have understood this matter, after the review that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has done, and then I would like to say something about the consequences that I think this should have for the future. We have heard several quotations from the New Year's Year to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg in 2007, but it is important to remember that what he said was that 'we decided that the gas power plant in Mongstad should have the greenhouse gas CO2'. The last time, the representative of the Workers' Party, Martin Kolberg, stated that Stoltenberg's wording was not a promise, but a vision. Thus, between these two statements, the life cycle of a project that the Swedish Parliament’s Committee on Control and Constitution – based on the National Audit Office’s report and extensive hearings – has tried to understand, and it has not been that easy. The statements of Stoltenberg and Kolberg are therefore important, for they relate to the core of the matter: What was the real purpose of the Mongstad project? The starting point was at least clear. One was that even in 2007, everyone who wanted to know, knew that global greenhouse gas emissions had to be reduced, and we knew that without changing policies in Norway too, we would not have to do so. We also knew that Statoil wanted a CHP plant on Mongstad, and we knew that many in the Workers' Party and in other parties on the Stortinget wanted Statoil to have that power plant. The gas power debate had been tough for a long time, and the compromise that was being served was clear: the gas power plant was to be built, but the greenhouse gas emissions were to be removed. That was, of course, the way Stoltenberg’s New Year speech was understood by all of Norway. Fear not, said the Prime Minister, we can both continue our oil business and remove the climate-damaging emissions. Telling people that the emissions were to be removed was of course the whole joke. A lot of people knew well what the concept of a moon landing was all about. President Kennedy's promise to place an American on the moon was a promise to do something no one had ever done before, which you didn't know what cost, and which you didn't know what kind of problems would cause, but which you were going to implement anyway, and which you did. So the moon landing speech was in itself really good climate policy from the red-green government. This was exactly what many hoped for: Finally, the government showed the will to really deliver something more than administrative squeaks that climate action is expensive and unprofitable. Finally, we were going to use Norway's great technological skills, great financial resources and great climate policy ambitions to make a big solution. It created optimism, because of the result we were to get, and at least as much because of the political determination and commitment that had finally come into the climate policy. The New Year's Eve of Jens Stoltenberg wouldn't be quite the same if he had said, "People, now we're going to build a dense new gas power plant, and then we're going to see if we're getting some emissions as well, but it's just kind of a vision, right? In addition, it was accompanied by an important and quite consistent industrial reasoning: Norway is a major gas supplier. The gas is important to us, and it is important to the buyers. It is even going to save Europe from the anti-climate coal, and in this context we are ignoring the fact that Norway is also selling coal to the same Europe as we are going to save from coal. In addition, Norway had one of the world’s major gas companies, Statoil, with impressive technological competence — not least for the storage of CO2. Through the Mongstad project, Norway and Statoil would develop a climate policy and industrial columbi egg – a carbon capture technology that would enable Norway to continue as a gas wholesaler, while developing and exporting the gas 100 pst technology. climate-friendly, and which in the next round can contribute to the really great job: catching emissions from the world's coal-fired power plant. This was a strong and lovable argument for the many who like the oil industry, but sometimes it is a little difficult for Norway to talk both loudly about climate policy and to set a high rate of oil as much oil as possible, which produces greenhouse gas emissions. The political impact was also good. There was a broad consensus in Norway that we were now on the way to a solution and that, through bold political commitment and cooperation between politics and the oil sector, there would be a solution. No longer could anyone doubt that the Norwegian oil sector had an equally sincere concern about the climate problems and was at least as concerned about finding solutions as anyone else. So overall, the Mongstad project signaled a bold political commitment and a commitment from the red-green government for which I unquestionably take off my hat. Of course, I also take off my hat for SV, which has a lot of credit for having pushed this through. That's the kind of policy we need. We need the big and brave political projects. It's an honest thing to go on a click, that things get expensive, that technology doesn't work as intended, and that things take time. But that is precisely why the Green Party is strongly critical of the review and hearings of the National Audit Office and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, namely that, on very essential points, the bold will that would alerted to implementation was not sufficiently evident. The Mongstad project was both political and technological Norway's sovereign largest climate project. The technical project planning, organisation and implementation, reviewed by the National Audit Office, must be seen in the light of what the Mongstad project should be. In this debate, we have already spent a lot of time on many issues related to information, reporting, cost calculations and decisions, and I will therefore focus on three things: the emissions permit, the overall communication about the project and the decision to wind up the project. The main item is the emission permit. What was then called the State's pollution control authority recommended was that the emissions permit under the Pollution Act should impose full clean-up from day one. That recommendation was based on Statoil’s project application. In this context, the SFT is no one at all. Assessing emissions permits has been their job for 30 years. With a firm and professional use of the Pollution Act, they have cut Norwegian industry's pollution by 90 pst. Former SFT Chief, current Head of the Environment Directorate, Ellen Hambro, made clear in the Committee's hearings on the SFT's recommendation at the time: The emission permit should be required to be fully cleaned for two reasons: Firstly, because Norway should not have new large emission sources. So the SFT took the climate policy and the moon landing promise seriously. Secondly, because the SFT saw a danger that CO2 capture would not be implemented in practice without a clear imposition from day one. SFT knows well how that works, and they know Statoil and the oil sector well. The emissions permit under the Pollution Act was without comparison the most powerful instrument available to the government to ensure that Mongstad cleaning was carried out. The aim of the Pollution Act is to prevent pollution, and it is routinely used in all areas of Norway to stop, cut and regulate pollution. It is therefore interesting that the representative of Kolberg, on a question earlier today, believed that the use of the pollution law was at the very edge of this case. But the government decided not to use this instrument and not to impose CO2 capture. The emissions permit satisfied itself first to require a cut of 100000 tonnes per year, i.e. something more than 5 pst. of the originally expected emissions, and in 2011 this was also deleted, as we know. Why the government didn't use the pollution law for what it's added are among the remaining mysteries in this Mongstad case. We never got any proper explanations in the hearing. It referred to difficult negotiations with Statoil, but in that case it can only be interpreted as granting Statoil the right of reservation in climate policy. There, even before the project itself began, the government of Statoil released the hook and the political cat from the bag. As you can see, the representative of Kolberg is right: what we thought was a promise from the government to cut 1-2 million tonnes of emissions was not meant to be. That was a vision. That's why there's a lot of talk that the Mongstad project's history from the very beginning was a story of a notified breakdown. The next point is about the way the Storting and society were informed about the development of the project. Other parties have spent a lot of time on this in this debate, and it is perhaps right that the government technically complied with its information obligation to Stortinget. What the government obviously did not do, however, was to inform in a way that made it possible for the opinion to follow in the main parts of the decision of the Norway history’s main climate project. Just because the project's political profile was so high, it was reasonable to expect that the government would go far to provide good information. We didn't get that, and I'll draw out just one example: The 2009 Statoil Master Plan operates with an overall price of CO2 capture from the gas power plant and the cracker of 25 billion. kr. The storage of CO2 was not included in that estimate. In the revised State budget for 2010 and again in Meld. St. 9 for 2010–2011 on full-scale CO2 management did not tell the government that the cracker had been removed, but they began to refer no longer to Mongstad, but to the CHP plant in Mongstad. Then, of course, people should know what this was about, that it meant that the cracker had been taken out, but the reality was that the government did not – in clear language – explain what they expected to get for 20-25 billion. kr. So the costs, and what that meant, have continued to create so much confusion that it was going far into the Committee's work on this matter. So the last point I want to point to is the end of the project. During the hearing, we did not get any comprehensible explanation as to why the project was being scrapped. Both the then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the then Minister for the Environment, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell referred to the fact that the costs would make the project a demonstration that carbon capture and storage are hopelessly expensive and impracticable. So that's just the The decision in autumn 2013 to stop the project has therefore left behind some sort of fog of speculation and three sad but real questions: When did the government really give up cleaning Mongstad? When did you really decide to scrape the project? Why was it not informed about this earlier? This is not suspicion. This is not a question of people's intentions. It's just a statement that, after all this difficult hearing, we don't understand why this decision was taken and on what basis. The Green Party has been skeptical about the CO2 capture project at Mongstad. We have always thought that Norway should address the fundamental problem, namely oil production and Norwegian oil dependence. We want to start the job now, as we all know we need to start: a planned build-up of a major societal effort to develop the next generation of sustainable Norwegian welfare societies and, in parallel with this, a systematic downsizing of Norwegian oil activities. Therefore, we believe it is wrong that an end-of-pipe solution such as carbon capture and storage should become the major Norwegian climate solution. In addition, we feared that the CCS project at Mongstad would primarily act as a lightning conductor for climate criticism against an oil industry that could still continue on the same course. Like many others, we pointed out that the solution of retrofitting a CCS plant at the Mongstad power plant was an extra expensive and poor solution that made it even more clear that the care for Statoil's power demands was greater than the care for the climate. Unfortunately, we have got this completely right. The Mongstad project has cost Norwegian climate action for eight years at a standstill. Each and every molecule of CO2 from Mongstad is now in the atmosphere – not in space, Tetzschner, it would have been nice if it had ended up there – and it is there to build up the enormous problems that our descendants will inherit. Unfortunately, the Mongstad project has become a monument to a Norwegian climate policy where the majority will not commit to the important, namely cutting emissions. We want to buy emission reductions. We want to research emissions, but we don't want to do it if it's not easy and cheap, and it's not. Was CO2 cleaning at Mongstad too expensive? 25 B.C.E. kr is a lot of money, but it is such sums that Telenor invests and loses on mobile phones in India. Norway has this money – in plenty of monn. Statoil has them himself. They spent 100 billion. kr to buy tar sands in Canada. During the eight years of the Mongstad project, at least 1113 billion were invested in Norway. kr in additional petroleum activities and thus further destruction of the future climate. But 25 billion. So kr was too much to complete what was supposed to be Norway's grandiose and strategic climate project. It's unfortunately pathetic, and it gives ominous signals of further willingness to spend money on climate action. But a project like this, of course, still has a lot of value, first and foremost by learning from it. Firstly, major, courageous, ambitious climate projects in Norway are necessary. The red-green government showed that it was possible to launch it, but we have to learn that we have to commit ourselves to implementing it. Then the most basic assumption, as also shown by the National Audit Office's review, is that we actually have to use the tools we have to ensure implementation. One example is the pollution law. There are many others. Secondly, we need to commit ourselves to a comprehensive climate policy. We must either get a climate law, or a similar mechanism that actually obliges the government to deliver the emission cuts that Stortinget has adopted. If we had, Mongstad would have put us in a completely different situation than we are now, because at the same time as the Mongstad project was terminated, the government would have had to answer where it would then cut the 1-2 million tons of emissions that were not cut in Mongstad. Should they be taken on Snow White? Were they to be taken in car traffic? Were they supposed to be taken on the pedestal? Today, the government has a profoundly embarrassing list from the Environment Directorate of climate action that is not implemented and that totals up to 8 million tonnes by 2020. So Mongstad is just one of them. Neither the previous government nor the current government has any clear plan to solve this problem. The lesson from Mongstad must therefore be that from now on, Norwegian climate policy in general and the use of carbon capture and storage must be focused on one thing, namely reducing physical greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. The hearing made it clear that operational carbon capture and storage technologies are now available. The train has gone too slow without binding CO2 gain on technology development projects. The Green Party still believes that carbon capture and storage are not a main solution, but we must now use it to cut large emissions in Norway. The government should therefore promptly publish commercial offers for CO2 capture and storage with existing technologies on Norway’s large emission sources such as Mongstad, Snow White, Brevik, etc. and with clear requirements for rapid implementation. This is the only way that the bulk of the population can avoid an even more embarrassing accident than Mongstad, which is a disaster for climate reconciliation's very modest cut targets. The Mongstad project must therefore mark the end of an era in which Norway met with visions of a world-leading climate policy. Now it's time to deliver in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2418	The representative Hansson comes with a strange criticism of having a vision and defining goals as a vision. The definition of a vision is an image of a future wanted state. It's a dream for the future. A vision is a goal there that you want to do everything to reach. Does the representative not believe that there is room for vision in Norwegian policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2425	I used a very large part of my post to say that it is very important for visions in Norwegian policy and climate policy, but I used the other half to say that one must also implement the visions. Visions are e.g. something that does not cut greenhouse gas emissions. Implementation cuts greenhouse gas emissions. So if you take a close look at vision, you get the situation we have today, where we are far behind the cut targets adopted by the majority of the population, and where Norway’s largest and most ambitious climate project – Mongstad – is part of the problem, not part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2430	All the actions that were made from that vision were probably strictly something that was part of a project to achieve a goal, and it has never been done so much to realize a vision and a future dream within the climate in Norway. But the representative criticises and raises again a question that was answered quite carefully in the hearing, and that was when the decision was actually taken. When was the decision to stop this project taken? At the same time, the representative does not agree with the comment that it is not expected that in future internal discussions in the government will also be presented to the Stortinget. Is there going to be a proposal from the representative Hansson to change the obligation to provide information?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2437	No, it doesn't. I believe that the debate on the obligation of information relating to this matter has been a rather targeted derailment, perhaps on the part of both parties. What we should have been talking about was the reality and the facts on which decisions were based. That is why I would just like to note that, apart from the formally perfectly clear position that the internal discussions of the government, which we in the Greens/EFA take note of, were not given any comprehensible information to the Committee which could provide the basis for the signatures and others to conclude with or understand why and at what time the actual decision was taken. We are left with some questions that point in a certain direction, but it has nothing to do with the government's obligation to provide information.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2442	The hearing provided an answer to questions relating to the date of the decision. The fact that you are not satisfied with those answers or disagree with those answers is another matter. But the insinuations coming from the representative show that he has to believe that there was someone in the hearing who didn't speak the truth. Then I have to ask, who was it? What was said that was not true? What makes the representative Hansson interpret it differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2447	This is a perception I take complete distance from. Concluding on the basis of the information we actually received in the hearing is not insinuating anything at all. It's also not to say that someone didn't talk right. I again note that we did not receive information that made it possible to settle a clear, understood opinion on when these decisions were taken. But we got information that showed that the facts that were referred to as the reason for the decision to wind up the project had existed for a long time. At that time, many more than members of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee will ask themselves the question: When did the decision really take place? I don't know the answer, but the question is no insinuation. It's just a simple conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2452	It is not useful to remember that there are nine cases following this case on the agenda today – or tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2455	Despite crushing criticism from the representative Hansson, he concludes that he is still positive about implementing CCS projects in Norway. There are CCS projects on large point emissions. I understood it so that Mongstad is defined as a place with large point emissions. It was important to announce competition with commercial operators, and my question is related to the competition document. There shall be competition among commercial operators to build the industrial plant. The raw material is exhaust gas and the product is CO2. My question will then be: After such a critical criticism of what has been done – what requirements has the representative Hansson come up with for the supply of raw materials and the price of the product?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2463	For the input of raw materials, it will be defined by the fact that these are large emission sources – we know the emissions and choose them as objects for these calls. As regards the price of the product, I fully agree with the representative of Lundtegen that this is a major problem. The question is: Should there be a problem that leads us to conclude that we should also say no to future CO2 capture and storage on large Norwegian emission sources, and thus allow them to go further, or should there be a problem we are solving, for example. with State resources to achieve the Stortinget target, namely to reduce Norwegian emissions and emissions from large sources?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2474	When I asked the question, it was because when the criticism is so strong, I expect that the alternative from the representative is something more than a criticism. If you are going to submit a tender to build a large industrial plant, I expect that the person who is going to build it will have to have a certain assurance about the quantity of the raw material and the price of the product. An answer to the price of the product is that the state goes in and guarantees. It's okay. But you also have to have insurance for the raw material. What is the Environment Party of the Greens' view on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2479	That's what I tried to answer after the previous question. When Mongstad releases approx. half a million tonnes of CO2 per year. year of operation, the amount of raw material input is half a million tonnes of CO2 per. years. This also applies to Snow White, Brevik and others. So unless there's some detail I don't understand here, I think the question is quite well answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2490	I am very pleased with the contribution made by the representative Rasmus Hansson. I agree with most of it. I am pleased that the Storting is now strengthened in terms of parties that raise the climate issue high and that commit themselves and will commit themselves to bringing down global emissions. Norway needs to take global responsibility, especially as a rich nation, and in particular as a nation that, in relation to its representation, contaminates a lot. We're about to put in place a CO2 capture plant. I am a little unsure whether the Greens believe that there must be a plant first in Norway, or whether it is believed that Norwegian money could equally be used to set up a plant elsewhere, it is in South Africa, Amsterdam or in connection with other projects outside the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2500	We believe that emissions from large emission sources in Norway, such as Mongstad, etc., must be cut. It is relatively elementary in the list in the Environment Directorate's overview of the cut-off in Norway. The technology with which this seems feasible is existing carbon capture and storage technologies. We believe that it has to be used to take the cuts. Then there is an interesting discussion about whether the larger views on the further development and internationalisation of this technology can be supported by Norwegian money spent abroad. There's a discussion that we like to attend, but it doesn't have to be another thing that gets in the way of or is used as an excuse for not cutting emissions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2510	The world's population is increasing, and a greater proportion of the world's population has expectations of stable supply of energy. As a major energy exporter, Norway should contribute to meeting these expectations. At the same time, this increases the need to succeed in decoupling the growth of energy production from the growth of CO2 emissions. A central element of this work is the development of methods to clean the emissions generated. Both the International Energy Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change point out that the capture and storage of CO2 will be important for meeting the global climate challenges. A prerequisite for achieving targets is that several countries actively focus on technological and competence development, but also on developing projects for CO2 management. The aim must be to increase knowledge and reduce costs. As of today, the technology is too expensive for many to put it into practice. Within the energy field, Norway is in a special position. Not only do we have large oil and gas resources, we also have large renewable hydropower resources. Where other countries have to base large parts of their energy supply on coal, we have hydropower plants that deliver renewable energy without emissions. That's good, also for the climate. At the same time, it means that we have a few large emitters of CO2. But through the petroleum activities and work at Mongstad, we have gained considerable knowledge of CO2 capture and storage. The only full-scale CO2 management projects in operation in Europe are located on a Norwegian base: the Sleipner field in the North Sea and Snow White in the Barents Sea. After years of research and development, through, inter alia: the CLIMIT research programme is the world's leading Norwegian research community on CO2 capture and storage technologies. In addition, the technology centre at Mongstad is an important test centre for testing different technologies for CO2 capture. So to the question whether it's worth the billions that are used, or not. I don't think it's right for me to say anything about that. The attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee – which is also concerned with the review by the National Audit Office of the government’s carbon capture and storage work during the period 2006 to 2012 – shows, however, that there are different assessments of the results achieved so far. I think it is important to stress that it is not my role as the Council of State to exercise control over the work of the previous government in this area, it is a task of the Storting. Nevertheless, I think it is nice when the chairman of the committee, Kolberg, gives credit for giving us the information we have given. I want to say that for natural reasons it is very descriptive and essentially a compilation of publicly known information. I have tried to stay away from the normative, other than whether the amount of information has been large. I have confirmed this to the Committee that it has, and I believe that it is the Committee and the Stortinget that have to assess whether the quality has been good enough. For me now it is most important to look forward. We must learn as much as possible from the considerable work that has been done. CO2 capture and storage has proved more technologically challenging than initially assumed. At the same time, we have learned that the way projects are organised is crucial for their implementation. It is important to strive for a reasonable distribution of risk between the country and private actors. CO2 management – which I have been quoted earlier in today’s debate – is about developing technology. It involves risk. We always have to be prepared that some choices do not lead to goals, or become more expensive or more complicated than we initially expected. This is now once in the nature of technology development and does not necessarily mean that the investment is wrong or that we should not bet on this type of project. So it's also important to have visions. I'm just trying to stress that it's also important to have a significant degree of reality orientation in the further work. Then it is important that we take systematic lessons from what has been done, and use the knowledge of our own work in Norway and in Europe, but also share the knowledge we have acquired, with others who work with the same type of problems. There is currently no commercial market for CO2 management. Therefore, state involvement in projects is essential. This is true in Norway, and it is true in all other countries that believe that this work is important. At the same time, there is something unusual about a country being so directly and closely involved in technology development projects as has been the case with the carbon capture work at Mongstad. It is a very comprehensive and difficult complex, and implementation is, of course, challenging. CO2 management in Norway has been characterised by high political ambitions. We now see that some of the ambitions have been beyond and proved difficult to deliver on. At the same time, ambitions have had broad support in Stortinget and have apparently continued to do so. The information provided by the Storting has been extensive in the period covered by the Riksrevisionstudies. What Stortinget should have been informed about when it came to the decision of the previous government to wind up the full-scale project in Mongstad is outside the period covered by the National Audit Office's report, and I have not made any assessment of that, as I also said at the hearing. The full-scale project at Mongstad is often compared with successful individual projects abroad. We're going to be glad that a few projects are realized. Equally full, we must note that the development of CO2 management has unfortunately also been more challenging internationally and has gone much slower than expected. The EU had an ambition of 10–12 full-scale projects a few years ago by 2015. No full-scale projects in the EU will be completed next year. Developing technologies that are both reasonable and effective has proved to be more challenging than you originally thought. The financial crisis has led to less risk and capital among potential investors, while the price of emissions of CO2 is very low compared to the cost of clean-up measures. The government is working on a new strategy for the capture and storage of CO2 that can help us towards lower emissions through the combustion of fossil energy sources. In the further work on CO2 management, it is important to focus on following the recommendations of the National Audit Office. I might like to highlight two aspects: both the issues of risk management and the issues of cost management, it is probably important that we focus on further work. The main objective of the strategy must be to develop technology so that CO2 management can become a cost-effective climate action. We have an ambition to put in place at least one full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020. This is clearly a demanding measure. Experience with Mongstad has shown that developing a good full-scale CO2 management project can be both complicated and expensive. I have said that before – and I want to refer to the representative Hansson when it comes to further work, he said it very well – now is the most important thing we can do with this report and the good work of the committee on the matter, to learn from what has been done. It's the most important thing. And the government is obviously concerned that we have to do a thorough job. Norway must make the best use of the resources we use in CO2 management, and contribute to the great CCS virtue, because this cannot be made a world championship; it must be done as a global virtue. This means that we also have to think of solutions that cross-border. It is essential that Norway’s efforts contribute to technological development and cost reduction. The aim must be to ensure that CO2 management in energy and industrial emissions becomes the rule and not the exception in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2599	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2602	The Council of State said in its statement that the technology has proved more difficult and demanding than previously assumed. I register that statement with great attention, because that is exactly what the government of Stoltenberg has claimed. I just note that the opinion of the current Council of State coincides with the opinion of the Stoltenberg government on the technology and the challenges associated with it. Then I would just like to say briefly that the representative Tetzschner, who represents one of the government parties, has been very clear that he believes that the Mongstad Centre has almost been wasted, and is talking about the misuse of taxpayers' money. On several occasions - including in the hearing - the Council of State has said quite the opposite. I would like the Council of State to comment on the views of the government party representative here in the Chamber, in order to know what the government thinks about exactly these claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2609	As the report also states, the test centre is built with a quality that has made it very expensive. Among other things, the facility to test out two different technologies at the test centre has made it very expensive. That the infrastructure at Mongstad will be useful to us, I think I'll answer yes. If it is worth the funds used there, I believe – it is a decision made before my time in the Council of State – it is not right for me to answer. So the first representative of Kolberg refers to: it's in particular decisions that have been made in the past. I answer that the test centre is important and useful infrastructure for us, but I will not decide if the costs are proportionate to the benefits. There is a job that Stortinget has to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2616	It is important to note that the Council of State believes that the test centre has a great benefit, and that we are there that the government believes it should be driven further. The government has said that. So the previous government and the current government have a very similar attitude to this. It is important to be told in this debate. So to the second point, this with information for Stortinget. I quote here the Council of State from the hearing. I asked him about this, and he answered like this: ‘What I’m trying to answer is whether the Storting has been kept informed about the activity in Mongstad, both the test centre and the full-scale process.’ The Council of State has followed the debate. How does he assess the allegations of lack of information, in the light of the opinion he made at the hearing?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2628	The representative of Kolberg referred to the great utility. I told you it was going to be useful. So it's taken care of. It is also stated in the National Audit Office's report that, in order to ensure further use of the testing centre at Mongstad, it is important that we work to get control of the costs of the test centre. I guess there's also something that's got Storting's approval. Of course, there's something the government wants to work on. I have tried to provide the Committee with a lot of information on how the information flow was from 2006 to 2012. That information has been extensive, I believe there can be no doubt about it. There's very little normative in that statement. I believe that it is up to the Storting to assess whether the Storting feels that it has been properly informed itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2638	It is up to the Storting to make an assessment of this, but this is a very central point for us – as the Council of State has heard – namely the point that the Council of State was asked about this. He replied, as I quoted him, and he said on other points: there is no doubt that the Stortinget has received the completely correct and sufficient information – there are reports from other points in the hearing. Once again, I just want to ask the Council of State how he views his statements – in the light of what has been claimed by the government representatives in this debate, that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2643	I know, from a few years of experience with the representative Kolberg in Stortinget, that he is very concerned about the constitutional conditions in this country, and it's probably important that I try to take care of my role. As I say, I have always said that I perceive it as having received extensive information about what is happening in Mongstad. Then I can also say that I have no reason to believe that during the period mentioned in the Riksrevisions report, there has been some information to Stortinget that has not been correct. I also realized that Kolberg was asking for it. But if the information has been sufficient – that is not something I should have a normative view of.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2650	The Council of State said that a significant degree of reality needs to be taken into account. That's good. At the same time, I think the post showed that the exposure is not on top. I would rather say that it is rather lukewarm in the matter. It was said that cost-effective measures were given considerable importance, while the Council of State said that there was apparently broad support in the Storting for continued capture and storage. I have never felt that there has been stronger support than today – at the intervention of the representatives of the Progress Party in the Committee. I understood that a job should be done here. It was the framework conditions for establishing the industrial plant that was too weak. What will the Council of State do in the further process to ensure that access to the exhaust gas and the price of the product is such that it can be commercially realised by the private individuals who want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2659	We have repeatedly said that the ambition to realise at least one full-scale plant by 2020 is on track. I'm sorry if that's how you expect rhetorical tricks from my side. I did not feel that the rhetorical trick of the previous government about the carbon capture plant at Mongstad specifically continued this process. I guess there were more problems with that. So I keep away from it. I would like to say that I am very concerned to facilitate a process that ends with the realization of a full-scale system by 2020. At the same time, research and development are important to keep the costs of capture and storage of CO2 at a level that makes it a technology that will be put into use in several countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2671	It wasn't rhetorical tricks that were my point. When the Council of State says that there seems to be broad support in the Storting for continued capture and storage, it stands for me as an expression that one has not received the broad support – now including the Progress Party – to do so. Once again, my point is that when one believes that the previous government was too close to technology – the new government will be less close to technology – will one then take the consequences of it, so that one is more close to what is the framework conditions for this industrial plant, namely the supply of raw material, which is exhaust gas, and the price of the product, which is CO2? If a commercial operator is to be able to do a job, it must have predictable framework conditions in these key areas, following the assessment of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2683	Let me enthusiastically try to say that I am pleased with the broad support for carbon capture and storage in the Storting – and in and for many parts of society outside. I didn't say the state was too close. I have been very clear that the state has to comment to get to this. We see that from the framework conditions out there. I've just said that it's part of the explanation that this has been a demanding process, at my poor discretion. Then I have said on several occasions – including at the main hall – that with regard to the further strategy for the development of carbon capture and storage, the government and I will come to Stortinget with a brief report on this work in connection with the revised national budget. I stand by that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2692	I allow myself to note that we are now looking for – due to Mongstad – to achieve our climate goals, which are set. My short question to the Council of State is this: How far behind are we, and what is the government's plan to resume the climate-cuttery after the end of the red-green government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2697	It's hard for me to answer how much lag we get because Mongstad was flogged by the red-green government. I mean – and it's the government and, as far as I know, the Left Party, together with the Christian People's Party, behind – that the goal of achieving a full-scale facility by 2020 is a goal that we are united in. Many of the research and demonstration projects, including: at Norcem's plant in Brevik, going its way, and new technologies are being developed and demonstrated all the time. That's good. This can lead to the realisation of CCS projects in Norway, but also to the development of technologies that can be used to capture carbon in other countries, and that is also good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2704	I will also ask the Council of State about his responsibility, namely the realisation of full-scale capture and storage facilities by 2020 and the important fact that we have to cut Norway. There have been several suggestions now that you can do this elsewhere. Of course, this can also be done, but if we are to achieve the climate goals internationally, it is important that Norway – which has high CO2 emissions – reduces its own emissions, not only because it actually matters, but also politically because it is impossible to reach agreement with countries that emit much less and have much less money than Norway, if we do not take rather strong measures ourselves. Do the Councils agree with that reasoning?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2712	I agree that all rich developed countries must make their share of the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – clearly. At the same time, the aim must be to contribute to the cost-effectiveness of this to become the rule and not the exception of both energy plants and industrial plants in all industrialised countries in the future. I have said several times that the government is going to present a looping message on the further work on carbon capture and storage in the revised national budget. It's solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2719	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2723	Mongstad is now the world's largest test centre for CO2 technology. This is a result of the commitment of the government of Stoltenberg II to CO2 cleaning. Of the costs to Mongstad, 67 went pst. to the test centre, 10 pst. have gone to transport and storage, 11 pst. to Mongstad full scale and 5 pst. to Kårstø. The rest went to administration. I start with this to emphasize the importance of the test center, because even if the full scale of Mongstad is stopped, the test centre is there and is an incredibly important step on the road to CO2 cleaning. As both the United Nations Panel on Climate Change and the Storting emphasise, carbon capture and storage may be the single technology that is most important in the fight against global climate change, and I am pleased that Norway in Mongstad is at the forefront of this. During the hearing, the State Council also said Tord Lien: ‘There is no doubt that the test centre has contributed to the qualification of the technologies, has contributed to the reduction of carbon capture costs and has contributed to the clarification of the amine issue, in conjunction with the full scale project. It is quite obvious that the test centre has delivered. I believe that this is one of the important elements that we have to consider in the further work." I totally agree with the council here. I hope that the new government will now continue to invest in CO2 technology both at the test centre and elsewhere in the country. The test centre at Mongstad was opened in the summer of 2012. When we talk about a test center, you might think about a small laboratory, but it's actually a pretty big factory where you can test different types of technologies and different types of gases at the same time. At that opening, environmental organisations, many enterprises, the international knowledge environment and international companies came to be involved, for the day saw a major impact on global climate change. What's good, I think, is that during the whole process of the Mongstad project, we have a broad uprising in the Storting, although you can listen here in the debate that not everyone is in it. That's why I'm going to refer to some quotation that makes that at least I mean it. St. pp. 49 for 2006–2007, Co-operation on CO2 management in Mongstad – which included the Implementation Agreements, the starting point for investment, the creation of the test centre – was co-ordinated by the Stortinget in May 2007. The capture and storage of CO2 has been mentioned in the first climate agreement in February 2008, and the investment decision in the technology centre of Mongstad was co-consulted by the Stortinget in January 2009. Although there was disagreement about other parts of the Mongstad bet, the new project model proposed by the government Stoltenberg in 2011, Meld. St. 9 for 2010–2011, positively referred to by a Joint Energy and Environment Committee at Stortinget. They wrote in the setting there: ‘Although there has been and is disagreement in the Storting regarding the implementation of full-scale CO2 cleaning technologies by gas power stations in Norway, there has been full agreement that the work done in Mongstad is of great importance. A unanimous decision was taken in May 2009 on the project with the construction of the Test Centre at Mongstad.’ Furthermore, you can read: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Christian People’s Party, believes that the changes proposed by the government fit into the Committee’s comments from previous discussions on this project and that they will make the project more robust and with a greater chance of technological success. [[...]] It is important to adjust the price when time shows that original plans were not feasible. The Committee considers that the Test Centre at Mongstad has a central role in Norway’s contribution to the development of commercial CO2 clean technology. [[TCM]] Such clarification from the government has given the test centre the real and important role it deserves. This real upgrade of the TCM position can also help make it more interesting for research environments and industrial actors.» In fact, in the 2012 climate agreement, a joint committee pointed out that even the Progress Party, which was outside the climate agreement, was included in the comment – the following: ‘The Committee points out that, inter alia, the International Energy Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change are promoting CO2 management as the main single technology for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. [[IEA]] If CO2 management is to succeed as a technology, it is assumed that a number of countries actively focus on technology and competence development and develop projects for CO2 management. The Committee therefore stresses the importance of the work of the Technology Centre in Mongstad.’ In my opinion, there has been a great deal of agreement here in the Stortingen on the Mongstad project, although – as I said before – it can be heard a little different today in the debate. We are forced to limit climate change emissions. The latest report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change shows that the world is now forced to initiate reductions if we are to achieve the 2-degree target, and they are in fact afraid of even greater warming. Then one must have governments that dare to be visionary, who dare to invest in the development of new technologies. The climate needs us to bet. I agree that it is a pity that we did not achieve the goal of full-scale cleaning in Mongstad, but it is also a matter of creating a new strategy, and the goal of full-scale scale by 2020 remains. In the budget proposals from the red-green government, we are increasing the commitment to CO2 clean-up, but in the budget decision here in the Stortingen, the new plurality reduced it. I hope that the Stortinget will continue to invest in and dare to develop new technologies in the future, so that Norway can be a pioneer country in the field of climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2799	I'll be brief. Much has been said in the debate earlier, and I will not discourage the House from repeating the arguments that have already been put forward. Politicians get criticism every day, both in the debate columns in the newspapers, on television, on radio and from this pulpit. That's good -- it's leading society forward. However, the formal criticism of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is not as common. It is the most powerful means of action against a government that has left, and it should say a little about the scale and severity of the matter. It all started with Statoil's desire to build gas power plants in Mongstad. In Mongstad, there has been refinery activity since the late 1970s, with a very energy-intensive production. The advantage of a refinery-related gas power plant is that it is possible to use the heat generated by the power plant so that the operation becomes more efficient both economically and environmentally. Construction started in 2007, and the power plant was in operation late 2010. The whole prerequisite for Statoil to be allowed to build and operate the power plant was that it should be clean-up or capture and storage from the first day, i.e. almost zero CO2 emissions. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg holds his New Year's speech in 2007. There he goes high and says that Norway will develop within seven years a technology that allows the capture and storage of CO2. It's going to be a moon landing of our time. Those are big words, they're obligating words, not least because such a bet at such a cost will be at the expense of other environmental efforts. I'll come back to that. Seven years have passed. The result is a gas power plant pumping out half a million tonnes of CO2 per year, a refinery that continues to pump out one million tonnes of CO2 per year, and 10 billion. treasury bills have been used for investment and operation in Mongstad. Not a single gram of CO2 is yet captured or stored. The Mongstad project consists, as most people know, of two parts: a test centre, where commercial operators can test out technology to make it commercially profitable, as well as full scale capture and storage of CO2 from the power plant and the refinery. The test centre has broad support, and is described by the vast majority in positive order. Nevertheless, the Centre has few concrete results to point to, among other things. in spite of robust trials, the Committee has not been given any clarity as to the number of patents withdrawn as a result of the test centre. The full-scale project is the largest and most extensive of the two. No doubt that's what's the moon landing itself. It is now referred to by many environmental organisations as a disaster, and was thus shuddered after last year's elections. Then we have to ask ourselves, how could it end this way? The simple answer to that is that too many aspects of the project have been managed clumsily, and the will for action has sometimes been half-hearted. For example, Statoil has been responsible for the actual implementation of the project, as part of a compromise, where Statoil was actually given gas power plants to build installations for capture and storage. Statoil is known as an oil company with limited experience in this type of project. Statoil is also, of course, a listed company with many different owners. In reality, the company has one main purpose, and it is to deliver the highest possible dividends to the shareholders. They don't run charity. Statoil's main interest, economically speaking, was to set up a gas power plant in Mongstad, so that refinery operations there became more profitable. When the gas power plant was completed in 2010, the technology for the capture and storage of CO2 was not mature enough to be put into operation. The Stoltenberg solution was then to change the requirement for cleaning from the first day to cleaning as soon as possible – that is, a very non-binding formulation. This happens without correcting with other incentives, so Statoil would still have an incentive to complete the project at a reasonable time at a reasonable price. The result was that Statoil started the gas power plant without cleaning, increased its profitability at the refinery, and re-established with very limited incentives to realize a full-scale plant in Mongstad, as the Riksrevision also emphatically points out. It's the responsibility of the departed government. Let me make it quite clear that I don't think that people or organizations are just governed by what gives reward, on the contrary. I also don't doubt the intentions of Statoil or the resignation of the government in the project, I'm just saying, like the National Audit Office, that incentives work. And I think we're naive if we don't believe that incentives also work on a company like Statoil. During the hearing, I asked several questions to the oil and energy ministers who now resigned about the incentives Statoil had to complete the project at a reasonable time and price. None of them came up with a single one, as is evident in the hearing panel. At the same time, the Riksrevision says that the cost control has been poor. Nor has an external quality assurance of the project been carried out and the costs associated with it, which is very alarming, all the time we are talking about a project that could potentially cost tens of billions of dollars. At the top of it all, Gassnova also did not have sufficient professional competence and capacity. However, one of the most interesting things about the case is how the money has continued to flow into the project despite the fact that someone should have realized that it was very likely that the investment would be lost. The hearing asked Jens Stoltenberg and other former members of the government what caused the full-scale project to be stopped. The answer I thought was very interesting. Unlike what I and some others had expected in advance, they did not get the predictable answer that this was an overall assessment. There were two specific aspects that were pointed out: the price tag and the amount of CO2 to be cleaned. In other words, the price tag per tonne of CO2 was too high. It's a very honest thing. I share the assessments with those who have said that it is problematic if we realize a facility that demonstrates a unit cost that is completely unrealistic, but the problem here is that the amount of CO2 in Mongstad and the price tag has been known for a long time – all since 2009 to be accurate. However, the government did not find any reason to terminate the project until after the 2013 option – four years after this information became known. This information has been digested for four years and concludes that the project was too expensive. In the meantime, billions have been cleared out. Of course, you can only speculate on the reasons why you took so long to conclude what you did. It's used together over 10 billion. SEK in investments in operation in Mongstad. We have received feedback that a good part of the investments made in Mongstad can be useful, but we don't get the fasitite for a long time. Many have referred to Kennedy in this debate. I can imagine doing the same thing. He said in the early 1960s that we're going to land on the moon by the end of this decade – not because it's simple, but because it's hard. It can also be wondered whether this is the reason why the project has gone for four years before using known conditions as a decision to stop it – because it has not been easy to give, but very difficult, to the voters. In the meantime, we can reflect a little bit on what 10 billion. kr can give us in climate context. With today's quota prices in the EU, for example, we can do this. Buying climate allowances for 350 million tonnes of CO2, we can buy climate allowances so that 300 million passenger cars can stand still for one year, or we can buy climate allowances for emissions in Mongstad, both the refinery and the power plant, for over 200 years. Instead, we have temporarily reduced greenhouse gas emissions by zero grams. If the investment makes a profit in the future, an open question remains. When there's so much gap between how much money you've spent and what you initially had, it's critical. That's why we have this debate, and that's why we deliver the matter as we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e2874	First of all, I would like to thank the Control and Constitutional Committee for a thorough and good attitude according to Stortinget's work on what we call Mongstad, moon landing or the state's work on CO2 management, which today's position and case are called. It was a great October day the government of Stoltenberg launched the Mongstad decision. I remember the day well, I remember where I was, and I also remember the Christian People's Party's first reaction to the government's decision in this Mongstad case. The Christian People's Party was from this day on when the CO2 cleaning would be in place. The government said in seven years, and I remember that my response to it was that those who were born this October day, then would sit on the school bench before the cleaning of Mongstad would be in place. It wasn't just signed that was critical in the first few days. The former head of the SU, Kirsti Bergstø, said to NTB on 12 October 2006: ‘This is a hair-removing poor solution for both the environment and those who have voted in favour of a new environmental policy. Now SV has to discuss whether we are worthy of sitting in a government and managing a policy we cannot stand for." The environmental organisations were also very disappointed. The head of the Federation of Nature, Lars Haltbrecken, said: ‘SV has failed its main environmental promise from the Soria Moria declaration. Now we're asking ourselves what's going to be the next environmental promise they're going to leave. They promised full clean-up of new gas power plants, but now there can be four years of new CO2 emissions.» Nature and youth were a little bit more sharp. They said that Kristin Halvorsen "does not own shame in life". The response to this from SV leader Kristin Halvorsen was that she said she understood that there were reactions to the decision: ‘This has been a demanding matter. I agree with the environmental movement that we should have had full scale cleaning in place before. But finally there was no alternative, because it was not relevant for Statoil." That's what Halvorsen said to NTB. I talked about those who wanted to sit on the school bench after seven years, and I also called it a taboo flight from SV – from resistance to gas plants, via demands for full clean-up from the first day, to release CO2 until 2014. The year we're in today. Former Minister of Environmental Protection and current representative Knut Arild Hareide also spoke to NTB in this context: ‘This decision would never have been taken by the Bondevik Government. I can certainly say that." He believed that there is no guarantee that the sewage treatment plant will be put in place, as there are two large-scale periods ahead. He further stated: ‘It is incomprehensible that Bjørnøy has given for pressure, and has not received anything in particular again. We have had a weakened environmental policy with the red-green government." Perhaps the current representative of Hareide, then Vice President and former Minister for the Environment, was more right than he knew on October. The big project of the Stoltenberg government was the moon landing. It was the clearest and greatest political promise that the government gave us in the Grand Duchy, but it was also a clear promise to the voters in two successive decisions. It was also an important national measure to reduce national emissions. Yes, that was one of our answers to climate change. Eventually, the international perspective was also drawn into this case. We should get a profit in addition to the national one. Yes, that's what's in the setting today, we should have a pioneer role in the capture and storage of CO2. That is what Norway had taken on and was going to take on. The Committee on Energy and the Environment says in the vote: ‘The Committee points out that CO2 capture and storage has been the largest technological climate policy effort in Norway in the last decade. Furthermore, the Committee considers that Norwegian involvement in CO2 capture and storage is of great importance, but that it is essential to learn from what has been done in the further work.’ It's probably a little bit on this background I'm reading the setting. A majority of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs believes that there is reason to call for strong criticism in today's vote and in today's decision. I have followed this debate today both from here and from the office, and I experience that many in today's opposition stress that there has been a great deal of consensus in the Storting on this important matter. I want to thank the committee leader, Martin Kolberg, for his good words on the role of the Christian People's Party in this matter. But the consensus that, among other things, The representative, Kolberg, refers to, is also a little attached to how the government has handled this matter, to say it nicely. I do not believe that the agreement has always been there. It was the government that decided to implement it and negotiated an implementation agreement. It was an agreement that Stortinget had nothing to say on. Then it was sold out in the media, and the red-greens had a majority on the Stortinget. And then that was the last point: to agree to the different decisions. I would like to ask and challenge the representative Kolberg: did he think that it could be more fair than that with the way the government and the big crowd handled this matter? Would it have been more fair to get the Christian People's Party and the Left to vote against in every case, instead of trying to influence through the work we did? When a majority and consensus are always used that way, I think it's time to ask that question. The agreement was concluded in October 2006. In Stortinget we received the first information about the matter in March 2007. So we didn't get the implementation agreement at that time. We got a representation from the government of what they thought was what the Storting needed to know. It was not until the spring of 2010 that we got the implementation agreement – after another postponement of this project. A week after the government decided on Mongstad, there was spontaneous questioning here. Both Minister of Oil and Energy Odd Roger Enoksen and Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen were present. In that reply, I asked a main question to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Can the Minister for Oil and Energy guarantee that environmental obligations are met and that investment decisions are taken when the first grade is on the school bench and will not be further postponed?’ For me, this question just shows that there has not been a complete agreement on this matter. I quote from State Council Odd Roger Enoksen's reply: ‘I am fully convinced that this will be a project that will put Norway in a leading role in cleaning CO2 emissions from fossil fuels. We're gonna get that fight together. That work has now started by the Government, and Statoil is committed to doing so. The State has undertaken to assume its share of the responsibility — a significant financial responsibility.’ I had no guarantee that the environmental obligations would be kept, that the investment decisions would be taken before seven years have passed. Furthermore, this spontaneous question hour was followed up by the then representative Jan Sahl. He asked his follow-up question to Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen: ‘We now experience not only that SV will open up for several years with CO2 emissions from Mongstad without cleaning, but that it is actually uncertain whether there will be clean-up in 2014. We have noticed that the Prime Minister no longer wants to use the word 'guarantee' in terms of political objectives. In this case, there is just the guarantee that is the springing point, and what the environmental movement is especially concerned about. Can state councillor and party leader Kristin Halvorsen here and now give us a guarantee that there will be CO2 cleaning at Mongstad in 2014?» And then I'm going to read a little bit of the answer: ‘The agreement concluded between the State and Statoil is binding. Therefore, I can say with my hand on my heart that I can give a guarantee that it is in place in 2014. For the SV part, we would have this clean-up in place before, because an annual emissions of less than 1 million tonnes of CO2 from the Mongstad gas power plant are also included in the climate accounting on the minus side.” The NTB message that went out after this was ‘with the hand of the heart’ by the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen or party leader Kristin Halvorsen. It also belongs to this story. The terms of the emissions permit have been discussed earlier today. You could give the government the necessary progress in this matter. This points to the position of the National Audit Office, and it is also pointed out by the majority in today's vote. This is what the government chose not to use. From the Christian People's Party we have pointed out that this was unfortunate enough once, because this was perhaps the only rice behind the mirror we had in view of the implementation agreement with Statoil. If we used the emissions permit, if we had enforced it the way it was in 2006, it could be a situation where the power plant was completed, but it couldn't start because it didn't have any emission permit to provide it. It clearly tells – at least for me – that the emissions permit was a good tool, but it was changed and not used as the tool it was when the implementation agreement was the way it was for the state and Statoil. Another issue that has been mentioned both by the National Audit Office, in the vote and in today's debate, and which has been mentioned from this pulpit many times, is the cancer hazard, the aminist. In spring 2009, the then representative of Hordaland, Laila Davøy, was visiting home in his own county. She came back with information that there were rumors of cancer in Mongstad. This took the representative Davøy and I saw seriously that we asked a written question. Then, during this day and this debate, a note from the Committee on Energy and the Environment on this point has been made. It became, among other things, used in the line change with my co-representative on the Control and Constitutional Committee, Gruvan. That's a good comment, because I've written it myself just to point out what we were looking for. We asked the question in 2009, the Committee's comments came, and then there was a good recording from the trades with Ellen Hambro from Kleif in the head, who sent letters to the Oil and Energy Department saying that the cancer that was, perhaps, far on the way, and that one would manage to deal with this in the four years that we had before us, considering when the full-scale plant was going to be in place. We got the same signals from SINTEF. Nevertheless, perhaps the cancer was used a little bit in certain periods, but none of us want to have a single human life on the conscience of this matter. Nevertheless, it is important for us to stress this. We see that for less than a year after the decision was taken in view of a slight delay, Statoil’s own studies also showed that the cancer risk was manageable. At the end of the day, I want to say that in terms of whether the Stortinget has been informed – or we have had to deal with this matter – there was at least a large minority in 2010 who thought that the Stortinget was not well informed, that the government had not fulfilled its obligation to provide information. Let me read from the note about this: ‘The report’ — and then we’re talking about Gassnova, which is the state’s extended arm and implements — ‘contains very relevant information that has only been transmitted to the State budget for 2010 to a limited extent’ (Prop. [[one turbine only, cracker slatted]] 1 S This was a report from Gassnova on 27 May 2009, which the Energy and Environment Committee received during its work in 2010, after the government had decided once again to suspend the investment of the full-scale plant in Mongstad. The decision was made, the news came at 1 p.m. 22:00 1st May. I remember where I was when the decision about Mongstad was made that May day, and I remember which hill I was in home from May 1st that day. The decision was made, the media was used, the bulk of the population was there, we handled the matter. There is a recipe that this case has been run after many times from the Stoltenberg administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3015	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3018	I asked for a line because I noticed something strange in Hemdal's posts, where the representative said no one would have a life of conscience. Nevertheless, Hemdal said that it might seem that the cancer could be manageable. My question to the representative Hemdal is then: Is it responsible for a government to consider something somewhat carcinogenic, and not so dangerous?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3025	Here we received clear advice from the professional authorities that this was far on the way when the Stortinget decided on the matter, and that it was manageable within the four-year perspective that lay ahead. From that perspective, I believe that the cancer was perhaps a bit high on the agenda. But that's how we're going to take this seriously. It did that Christian People's Party already one year before the government chose to inform about this, through Laila Davøy's question in Stortinget, because the rumors went about the Mongstad plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3032	Then I just have to ask Heimdal: what does the representative think is too much attention to a cancer hazard?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3037	If cancer is used in a way that doesn't hold, it creates more fear. Whether it's factual, as far as the professional authorities we have to do this are important to me. No one deserves to be afraid of any cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3042	So then the representative Hemdal believes that there is something called ‘a little cancerous’ — yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3047	No, either you have cancer or you don't have cancer. I believe that the representative also agrees. But it shouldn't be that you use things that don't lead to correctness in a political argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3055	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3058	The representative, Lundtigen, earlier called for some members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment to speak in this debate. I got that with me, and here, of course, I am to link some comments to this discussion. First, I want to commend the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee for the work they have done on the review of the entire Mongstad process. As chairman of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, it is important for me to stress the importance of being able to implement CO2 capture and storage projects. The Intergovernmental Panel report, which was presented last Monday, which shows that climate change is already an international reality, is something we have to deal with when it comes to the changes that are coming. In order to reduce emissions both nationally and internationally, the technology of capture and storage is central to achieving the necessary reductions in the decades ahead. In this way, I also fully agree that it is important to invest a lot in order to get projects with capture and storage in place. As has also been underlined here in this debate, there has been a broad consensus in the Stortningen to bet, and there has also been a broad consensus on using large funds to set up a capture and storage project in Mongstad. But then the reality is that what we're standing back with is a refinery and a thermal power plant where all the emissions are emitted by well over one million tons every year. We're standing back with a test center, which is technologically at the forefront and the largest thing we have internationally, but it's still a question of whether the effect of this will be positive, because you have to have an economy for the big players in order to put this into practice. So even if the technology is there, there's still a big question about whether we want to take the necessary advantage of the test center. Why have we ended up in this situation? It is clear that although there is broad consensus in the Storting, which has supported the objective, there is no doubt that the government has been responsible for the implementation of the “monthly landing” – the development of capture and storage in Mongstad. The National Audit Office has pointed out many mistakes that have been made, and there are aspects of the project that should have been organised differently to get the necessary progress. One of these – and what we have to learn from this project – extends back to when I myself sat up at the gallery here in March 2000 when the debate was about the Bondevik I government, and it finally had to go off because it was not willing to agree to the establishment of gas power plants without capture and storage from day one. I believe that, in order to achieve the necessary progress, it is important to maintain that, when carrying out such large projects, it is necessary to make it a prerequisite for the establishment of capture and storage from day one. In 2006, when working with Mongstad, that assumption was abandoned. It is quite clear that when you are going to establish capture and storage after a project, it is much more difficult to get this in place, and it is also becoming more expensive. Then it is necessary to have good agreements with industry on implementation and agreements that give the right incentives. Here we have had a situation in Mongstad where Statoil has been responsible for the implementation and costs of implementation, while the state has been responsible for all planning. It is clear that when planning costs and their use can cause you to lower the costs of implementation afterwards, incentives are flaws in driving the project forward. It's also been that, despite the fact that the state has spent more than 7 billion in total here. kr, it is Statoil’s quality assurance procedures that have been followed. The lack of external quality assurance at the test centre is quite incomprehensible to me when you are implementing such a large project. In my former position as urban council here in town, both one and two external quality assurances are carried out when setting up a sports facility. When running such large projects, it is clear that this must be in place in the process. As a previous speaker also mentioned, the pollution law and its requirements are effective means of ensuring its implementation. The Mongstad project also shows that changing the permit along the way, or not setting requirements from start-up, works badly. It is important to take us on board, when we are going to have new projects, that the pollution law must be applied, but we also need to stick to the decisions taken throughout the process. The Court of Auditors has some clear recommendations. They have to be reviewed, and they should be followed. The overall risk management needs to be improved in the country's work on CO2 management, ensuring the long-term use of the technology centre through, inter alia. to consider further measures to reduce operating costs and motivate wider industrial participation, to assess measures to strengthen Gassnova’s efforts to carry out cost management and to contribute to effective progress in planning the Mongstad full scale project, and to strengthen efforts to establish legal and commercial framework conditions for transport and storage. Where we are today, this is about the fact that we still need to put in place capture and storage and implement the technology of capture and storage. Mongstad has now fallen away. We need to look at opportunities to put in place the full-scale capture and storage and have this in place before 2020. Without Mongstad, there are not many of the major sources of emissions left in Norway. Here, then, we should be able to look beyond Norway's borders and contribute, while also ensuring that we have technology developments and the positive aspects of implementation. There is considerable responsibility on the part of the Minister for Oil and Energy, but it is also possible to look at the smaller projects in Norway in connection with the upgrading of the Svalbard coal-fired power station and see how we can promote capture and storage with the significant emissions that, after all, are also in the border region. Catch and storage are essential for not only us, but also for achieving climate objectives internationally. In the Mongstad process, in my opinion, implementation has been too bad. The incentives for good implementation have been incorrect. Quality assurance has been lacking, and there is much evidence to suggest that the political performance has exceeded the thoroughness and quality of the planning and implementation phase. If the necessary thoroughness is not present in all terms, it often turns out that the result is too bad – and in this case it has definitely not been too bad, but there has not been any results at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3090	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3106	When I put foster homes and child protection on the agenda, it is with the background of the many enquiries and the focus it has been on this important topic. It's done a lot of good, and there's been a lot of consensus in this room about the changes. Nevertheless, we have to admit that there is a long way to go until we have a service that works well enough, with good enough quality, enough staffing and enough foster homes. We want all children to grow up in safe, stable environments with good adults in their lives. That's why we have to work together to see if we can find better solutions in the future. First, I want to commend all those who make an effort for the best of their children, who open their home and their lives to children who are not well. There's a lot of respect for that. It is therefore important that they receive the follow-up and support they need, and it should apply to both foster parents and to any child who receives the nurse. That child protection is a co-player, and that everyone is safe on each other, is absolutely necessary to succeed. Often the chemistry doesn't match, and that's exactly why good practice and rules are important. Nearly 1,000 new children each year need foster homes. Many people are in great need of help and need long-term follow-up. Competence and manning are an important factor. This applies to both employees and those who make themselves available for children in crisis. Even with the earmarked funds in the child-restraint lift, more employees and increased competence in child-rescue protection, we are not on target. It must be further strengthened and not stopped. The waiting time for a foster home is too long, and it's increasing. The growing number of children in need of foster homes worries us. There has been a desired twist from institution to foster home, but it will also be the case in the future that some children need institutional space. Therefore, a wide range of services is important in order to meet the different needs. The best thing is to grow up in an almost normal family life, because it provides the best basis for a stable adult life, seen in a life span of 0-22 years. Unfortunately, what we saw in the Focus Programme on foster homes is not an exceptional case, and one can see that recruitment does not get any easier after such an entry. There are wide variations from municipality to municipality in terms of competence, number of employees and the follow-up of cases. There are grey zones between the state and the municipality, and between what Bufetat is going to do and what the municipalities are going to do. It may be a challenge for the same person to investigate, process and then follow up the child and the family. We need trained employees who know their job, and it's important to see if education is adapted to what's expected. There is also reason to look at the practice of putting graduates into the first-line service, where one should perhaps have had them with the most experience and good human knowledge. It must be difficult for employees to face difficult issues throughout the working day, and it is important that they also receive the follow-up and the training they need. These are often people who burn for the best of children, but they burn out because they don't get it. They have too many things. The maximum limit should probably be around twelve, but we see that it's far above what's real. For foster parents, frequent shifts of case handlers are a problem when a person wants to create good cooperation. Feedbacks show that the follow-up fails and creates conflicts. Would it be a solution to have one as an investigator, and one that follows up? In order to recruit and maintain existing foster families, it is important that foster families are confident that they get help when they need it and that they have a co-player in child protection. This suggests that the need for more support and guidance is needed. How can we do that in a better way? One solution might be to develop and use the training programme for foster parents, PRIDE, more. The evaluation of PRIDE shows that the majority of participants gave positive feedback and considered the themes addressed to be useful. What has been mentioned – and should be changed – is, for example: the rights of foster parents and that more realistic images of challenges and of the system should be provided. These are things that should have been inside this program. The further training courses offered have received good feedback and the courses should be developed more. Passing through a course makes foster parents more prepared. The question is how to get even more to participate, or whether one should consider whether at least a basic course should be obligatory. Many children are in a shelter before they go to foster homes. It's the responsibility of the state. When I have promoted this matter, I hear that the contact between the different levels can be difficult. All communication should go through Bufetat, while important information about the time the child has been in the emergency room, which is important for a case handler to know about, should go through Bufetat. It is important for the case handler to know how the children are at home, but there is no direct communication. This may be important to take into account when finding foster homes. This is where children should win their best – over the system. Here, there are great differences between municipalities and municipalities in how Bufetat deals with this. How are we going to be able to do that? Should we have common rules that make sense? Can we learn from Australia and the United States, where one has a demand for close and committed cooperation between agencies? We must have a diversity of offers. Governments themselves have highlighted SOS children’s cities, which are one type of offer. There are the foster parents who move, and the children who live again, if it intersects. There are good meeting places for family meetings in the same area, which I thought seemed very positive. It seems like a nice way to organize it, even if it can't replace all other foster families. The scheme imposes great demands on families who enter, they often state their own lives. Someone sells the owner-occupied dwelling and stays there permanently, while others have a dwelling in addition. It is also relief – well agreed. But this is a scheme that doesn't fit everyone. That's why I want to say that more diversity and good solutions can be a way to go. SOS children's cities seem like a good offer. I look forward to the debate here today, and I think we should work together to find good solutions for children and foster parents. The point of the interpellation is not to say that someone has done a better job than others. Here I think we have a common responsibility to find even better solutions for the kids who are not doing well, for those who want to become foster parents, but who are not thirsty today, and for those who are foster parents, but who want to end because they think it is too difficult. I hope we have a good debate here, and that we can work together to find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3146	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. I hope that this debate will not be about who has done what, but that together we can focus on an important topic. All children need care, stability and security. Child protection helps children and families in need of support. Over 80 pst. help is provided by all children and families in the field of child protection at home. In those cases where child protection has to take care of the child, it is important that we, as the authority, create a safer and more stable everyday life for those children than they had before. Today, there are foster homes that are the most commonly used option, and in most cases it is also the best place for children to live for a shorter or longer period of time. Like the interpellant, I am concerned about ensuring children a stable growth with good and safe connection to adults. Children under care are particularly vulnerable to unforeseen events and decisions. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that we do a thorough screening of the child, so that we find the best help for the individual child. Interpellant asks which measures are the most urgent to deal with. I want to bring forward four areas that I believe are essential to ensure good and stable foster homes adapted to the individual child. First, it's about recruiting, second, it's about a good investigation of the child before placement, and third, it's about good follow-up and guidance for foster parents. Last, but not least, it is about the framework conditions of foster parents. It's the children's, youth's and family's budget, Bufetat, who's responsible for recruiting and distributing foster homes. It is important that they recruit different types of foster homes that can care for children with different needs. Foster homes should also reflect the family structures and cultural diversity of society. Therefore, Bufetat has to work specifically to recruit in environments that are underrepresented today. Unfortunately, the waiting time for foster homes has increased. It has, among other things, the relationship with the higher proportion of children placed in foster homes than before. According to Bufetat, there is a need for approx. 1000 new foster homes each year. When placed in foster homes, childcare services shall always assess whether any member of the child’s family or close network can be selected as a foster home. In general, family-based children are better off than other foster children. fewer physical and mental health disorders. Positions also end less frequently with unintended movements than other locations. These foster parents must receive the same follow-up and guidance as other foster homes, and I have asked Bufdir for 2014 in the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate's letter to develop a professional recommendation for assessing the place in foster homes in children's families or close networks. Many municipalities use family councils. Family councils have also been shown to be well suited when placing a child away from home. By means of family counsel, the family may conclude that the child can be placed with a member of the family. That is why I have commissioned Bufdir to stimulate the recruitment of several foster homes in the child's family and close networks through the use of family councils. We know that the most important thing for many children is to have contact with the sibling. I am therefore pleased that we have now clarified in the Child Protection Act that after taking care of the child, the child protection service is to facilitate association with the sibling. Unfortunately, we hear stories that this does not happen, but it is important that it is taken into account. If all those placed in foster homes undergo a thorough pre-location examination, foster parents will also be able to assist the child from the start. A good investigation could help reduce unwanted fractures and movements and provide a more stable and predictable life for the unborn child. It is important that local authorities give priority to this when investigating the child before being placed. What is also crucial for success in foster homes is, as I mentioned, good follow-up and guidance from foster parents. Those who choose to become foster parents undertake a very demanding task on behalf of the public. In order to make foster parents safe in their role, to strengthen their motivation and to reduce the risk of new abortions, it is essential that these foster parents receive knowledge-based guidance. On that occasion, I would like to present a film made by the Adults for Children in cooperation with the National Children's Protection Association. ‘Speak about it’, the movie is called. The aim of the film is to strengthen the relationship between foster children and foster parents, and it should be the starting point for conversation and dialogue. The target population is primarily foster children, foster parents and foster nurses. The key to success with stable foster homes is that foster parents get proper and good follow-up. Both municipal and state child protection are responsible for the training and guidance of foster parents. The responsibility of the State is to provide guidance on whether to be a foster parent, but it is the municipality that is responsible for providing guidance related to the individual child. I have now asked Bufetat to build up an offer of knowledge-based group guidance for all municipal foster homes. It starts this year. Priority should be given to municipalities with the highest needs. The offer shall be free of charge for municipalities and shall also be free of charge for foster parents. It's set at 10 million. kr in the budget for that year. I also asked the directorate to identify and further develop methods that strengthen the link between children and foster families. The monitoring of the financial environment of foster parents and the evaluation of the use of state foster homes and municipally-enhanced foster homes are also important measures, as mentioned in Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013. These measures are well under way, and we will soon have a survey of exactly this from Bufdir. The evaluation of state, municipal and private professional foster homes will be ready by the end of the year, together with Buffdir’s technical recommendation on how to further develop the foster home. These studies will also make a significant contribution in further efforts to ensure better and equal framework conditions for all foster parents and to assess what kind of foster home we will need in the future. The representative Mant pulls out SOS children's cities in his interpellation. The undersigned was visiting Norway's only town of children, located in Bergen. I can really recommend the representative to take a walk, because it is an incredibly great offer. There is also an SOS Children's Village planned here in the East. SOS Children's Village in Bergen is a reinforced foster home. Here, children live in common homes – with one or two foster parents and possibly siblings. Several houses are co-located, so that foster parents always have a safe and good support device around them. And if it turns out that foster parents and children are not "fitting together", it's the foster parents who are moving out, not the children. This is the children's home, and it's completely 'usual home'. We should also remember that four out of five foster parents are satisfied with the support they receive, but we cannot be satisfied with this result. A foster family that is not satisfied is a family too much. Many child protection services are now small and vulnerable. Although for some years we have had a stake in several child protection positions, there are still municipalities with very few child protection employees. For these municipalities it may be difficult to follow up foster homes in a good way. If they also have other tasks, it is clearly a major challenge for those municipalities. The government has also started work on changing today's municipal structure. I believe that child protection is one of the services that will really serve fewer and more robust municipalities. We're dependent on foster parents. Then we have to follow them up. If we don't do that, the kids will be the losers. We can't afford that. The focus programme clearly showed that we have major challenges. When a five-year-old girl has to move up to five times, we haven't succeeded either in caring for that child or in looking at the possibilities of following up foster parents in a good enough way. The representative asks in his interpellation about how we're going to follow up Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013, and she also had a couple of recordings in her post. I would like to say that some municipalities have today shared child protection services in an investigation and an action section. Guidance has also been launched for newly recruited/trained child protection educators – it is important that they receive guidance. It is also important to ensure that municipalities are responsible for controlling the emergency homes for which they are responsible. What's important here is that we always think, what's the best for children? Then we need a diversity, and we need to create safe, good framework conditions around the children who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3192	Thank you to the Council of State for a dedicated article. I know that she burns for and is busy with the best of children, and I also know that there is a big difference between the municipalities in Norway. That's why it's our responsibility to see if there are things that we can make work even better. Some care professionals could also have been completely avoided if we had close family follow-up. We do not have such a great tradition here in Norway to have foster homes for the whole family – i.e. the whole family moving in with another family – but it could perhaps be an offer that could develop. Often the family needs to learn to be a family, and there are several ways to solve it. It might help to ensure that more kids did not take care of themselves, that they could live at home if the family actually worked. We have different types of children's and family centers, and there's a lot of good going on. Many have good experience in prevention. In Westfold we have wild, in Horten, where they have a good reputation. The aim is to improve child-growth conditions, help parents to become good caregivers and, where not possible, to clarify further the care needs of young people. Such offers are important and absolute to the child's best. As the Council of State points out, many current foster parents work hard to receive children because of unstable prospects and framework conditions. How long should the child be, when should it be returned home, how close should the biological contact be, and how often does the parents anchor in the matter, are other questions asked. Should we consider setting limits for how many times it should be anchored? When's somebody gonna stop? When's the kid gonna settle down? An anchor is an eternal round dance. We can easily understand that the parents have a fight to get their kids back, but we also have to see if the care has actually changed. It may be appropriate to consider it before accepting appeals. In Sweden, permanent placements are faster, fewer appeals are made, and in the United States, a contact is made when permanent placement is established. It can also bring peace to everyone. Another question is what kind of rights foster parents should have where children are being repatriated, for example: in the case of association. The challenges that the Council of State faced with contracts, economic conditions and inclusion here are other concrete things that we need to address. Lack of social rights such as holiday pay and occupational pension can be an obstacle. Can it be cleaned up, so the systems around it are equal, and everyone knows what they're going to do? Should we have national standards on that? Should a parent’s home requirement be assessed for one parent to be at home for the first six months of the year? Should you compare foster homes and a workplace, so that it is actually a workplace... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3203	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3206	The very thing, the best thing for a child is to have a safe, good environment and live at home with their own family. So we know that there are a lot of families struggling, and that they need help in everyday life -- they need help to be good parents. I am pleased that many municipalities that I have visited now have a much greater focus on cross-border cooperation, where health centres, schools, kindergartens and child protection work together to have a stronger offer for the individual family. We also see that the municipalities that work in health centres use less on child protection. So it's 80 pst. of families in the field of child-restraint assistance is provided at home. The fact that we are now developing further and offering an offer to others on parental guidance courses, I think we can also be involved in strengthening prevention work. It's easier sometimes to get money to repair, it's not that easy to focus on prevention, but we have to remember that everything we can prevent, when we can provide help to the individual family and the child at the earliest possible time, we'll save on later. So it's going to be an important focus for this government to continue working with. Then the interpellant was inside Vilde – the children's and family centers. Then I would like to remind you that a total accumulation has seen on Prop. 106 L. We're going to look at structuring child protection today with municipalities getting bigger tasks, the directorate is going to be more a trades union directorate, and Buffetat is going to finish some of the non-statutory tasks. I have been concerned about the development that it has brought to the child and family centres. I am very happy that a few weeks ago I stopped that development, so that before we get this in place, we also have to see what kind of offer we're going to have in that field. It's incredibly important for those of us, least of all, who need a follow-up, that we have the children's and family centers, and I'm glad that we have now stopped their closure, so that there will be a good deal in the future for the families who need it. Then I also want to say that it is important that we ensure the legal certainty of children. The launch of an evaluation of the population is important to ensure legal certainty for children, but also for those parents who lose their care for their children. A field that has been poorly debated is also to offer a good deal to the biological parents who lose their children. The fact that they also get a much closer and good follow-up, I think is important, and there are several instances that say that it has been underprioritised and must be lifted. There are a lot of kids who, when they're in foster homes, are desperate and wonder how it goes with Mom and Dad, and there are many parents who need more follow-up when they've lost their children, because there's a lot of diagnosis here. It is important that someone does this in a good way too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3217	First, thank you to the interpellant for addressing an important topic. How do we create good homes for the most vulnerable, the children who don't have parents to lean on? I read an article in the magazine Mom, which had the title "To be a Mother of Loan," and was about opening her home for children who need a loan family. One of the statements I noticed was: ‘When you see the posters about who can become a foster home, it says that they need very common families. But from the day you have an unborn child, you are no longer a regular family." They tell us further about the love of foster children, the grief of believing that a child will be, but that they will not keep, and the joy of giving security and a good start to someone who needs it. So when we as the government ask for someone to open their home, there is no small service we ask for. Then it is important that we have good offers around the family, and that a good assessment is made of what the child needs, before a selection of offers. We have several issues in the committee on this topic, and the Council of State has sent us letters of response and explained some of the measures that have been taken, and what is on the steps. Good follow-up and guidance of foster parents is essential for success in foster homes. Therefore, it is important that Bufetat is asked in this year’s letter of award to build up the provision of knowledge-based group guidance for all municipal foster homes, starting in 2014. Priority should be given to municipalities with the highest needs. The offer shall be free of charge for municipalities and free of charge for foster parents. It's set at 10 million. NOK to this. In the government platform, we say that we want to allow several actors to recruit foster parents and contribute to the support apparatus around foster families. What the child needs is most important. Here it's important to let go of all the good forces. We will review the balance between institutional and foster home services and, if necessary, evaluate how foster home care can be strengthened. Once again, the best of the child must be the leader. We want to move authority from the state to the municipalities, so that they can strengthen their professional environments. Those closest to the child need greater freedom to tailor proper measures for each individual child regardless of whether it is provided by the public, by the ideals or by other private child protection actors. We are impatient on behalf of the most vulnerable, on behalf of the children. I am glad that we read the same impatience out of the answers and the posts we hear from the Council of State today. We are already seeing the results, and that promises good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3244	In 2012, almost 9,000 children were placed in child protection care measures. This was an increase of 14 pst. Since 2008, which means that the need for foster homes and institutional settings also increased over the same period. 9 000 takeovers are many, and this shows that we need to focus more on prevention. I believe that a strong focus on prevention is important in order to avoid the burden of taking care of a family. I am therefore very pleased with this government's commitment to early efforts to help disadvantaged families and vulnerable children. However, prevention does not always help, and then we have to put the best of the child in the centre. We must then ensure safe growing-up conditions for the child, either in a foster family or in an institution, based on what best suits the individual child. Most children are placed in a foster family after taking care of them. These foster families do one of the most important tasks of society. They open their own homes for children who have had a crooked start in life. By providing good, stable and safe foster homes, we can ensure that these children are given a good upbringing and prevent the children from coming out crooked even later in life. We facilitate this by providing the necessary guidance, safe financial conditions and good follow-up of each foster family. Here we have a job to do, and I am happy that the government is now taking this into account in the year's letter of assignment to Bufetat, where Bufetat is asked to build up the offer of knowledge-based group guidance for all municipal foster homes. I have received several feedback that the framework conditions for municipal foster homes vary greatly from municipality to municipality. This variation can make life very unpredictable both as an unborn child and as a parent. I am therefore pleased that Bufdir is now going to look at this. Particularly important for stability in foster families are the economic framework conditions. It is important that foster children have the same opportunities for participation as all other children, and that families are not penalised financially by taking in an unborn child. Governments have stated that in the near future, Bufdir will deliver a survey of the financial environment of foster parents. Here, it is important to focus both on the intentional and unintended economic consequences of being a foster family and to assess them. The propulsion party has always considered it important for the child to consider the nearest family as a foster home first. I am therefore pleased that Bufdir in this year's letter of assignment has been asked to develop a tool to achieve this goal. I believe the government has already done a lot of good in the foster home field. At the same time, difficult issues remain to be addressed. More focus on the foster home system is needed to reverse the fact that foster children are less likely to be affected by both education and health statistics. Children who are moved into a foster family must come to a home prepared to care for the child with its challenges and provide the child with the child that childhood and future children deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3270	The foster home system is an important part of child protection, and there is reason to commend all those who serve as foster parents and through it provides children with safe care. But I record that many foster parents get the experience that they do not get the necessary follow-up after they have been given the responsibility for an unborn child. Many children entering foster homes have experiences that require processing and follow-up, often more than those told in advance by their foster parents. Therefore, it is essential to provide foster parents with good professional follow-up and knowledge-based guidance. It is a challenge when state and local authority are responsible for different areas of this guidance. When this is the case, it becomes very important to provide systems that link guidance. Unfortunately, in many areas we encounter a child protection that has little knowledge, and we have some suggestions that I think we would all like to be in addition. One paradox that I think I see in that context is that it is often – and I think it is a reality – in the smallest municipalities that knowledge is the worst. But at the same time we also see quite ghastly look-ups in large municipalities, so neither is there a guarantee that we have child protection with enough knowledge and good enough communication for those who need guidance from the agencies. When this room discussed changes in child protection a little over a year ago, it was strengthening the supervision of foster home children an important part of the debate, and the system of supervisors was replaced by a clear and professionalised municipal responsibility for supervision. The Stoltenberg government granted money, so this could be started from July 15 now this year. We thought it would give the municipalities time to establish a good system of such supervision. However, in the additional proposal, the Council of State expressed great impatience after initiating the action and therefore granted 15 million. extra kr, so that the measure could be implemented as from 1 February of this year. Since some of us were unsure whether it was possible to establish a good oversight system in such a short time, it might be interesting to hear from the Council of State what experience she has gained with the new supervisory system. What's happened? Has the municipal sector been well under way? And what have you seen already?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3281	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up an important matter. The Christian People's Party has been committed to long-term improvements in foster home provision and has on several occasions set up an action plan for full foster home coverage and a stability reform in child protection. Children who need to be moved from their homes need a stable and safe care offer, and for most, foster homes will be the best offer. It is not an easy task to find good and suitable homes for each child, but when the public decides to take the child out of the home, it is unacceptable that we do not provide a full care offer immediately. Then we have to bet more on recruitment. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the ideals can be used more widely to recruit foster homes, and expects the potential that is among the ideals to be fully exploited, so that we can get a variety of offers and provide children with a good foster home. Recruitment campaigns are important, but I think it's at least as important that being an foster home is a good experience and has a good reputation. Then we have to make sure that foster families are well cared for. In winter, we have seen several cases, including: in focus at the NRK, by foster families who have not received the follow-up they needed and where cooperation with child protection has not worked well enough. This has been agreed by the Child Protection Service in several cases and is justified by a lack of resources. We have to make sure that child protection has the resources needed to be able to follow up your foster parents in a good way. This is how we can make it possible for the child to remain in the family for as long as it is needed and to avoid moving between foster families. I think we'll also achieve that we get even more foster families. A good location starts with a good investigation, and an important measure will be to ensure that child protection has good methods of investigating the children and families. A 2013 NOVA study shows that the case handlers do not have a consistent and systematic way of investigating the children in connection with their placement. This resulted in that the foster parents did not get enough information, and that the location became more challenging than necessary. NOVA calls for a project to test different methods of investigation, and I believe that this is something that the Council of State should look at. Good investigations will provide good places and thus prevent unnecessary movements and fractures of the child’s growth. Studies show that more and more foster parents are required and that the use of free purchases is increasing. It is important to review the rights of foster parents to pensions and social security. As it is today, foster parents who see the need for free shopping do not earn pension funds while they are at home and do this incredibly important job for society and not least for the children. The release of one or both foster parents also leads to loss of income in most cases. The requirements for foster parents have changed, and I think that we also need to be willing to see if the scheme also needs change – and look at the conditions around. So I'm glad that interpellant Sonja Mandt also mentioned the institution Vilde in my birthplace Horten, who works within the parental-child segment, and who does a very good job. I'd like to commend the Council of State for freezing the situation, because it seemed that some of the institutions working within this segment would have problems. One of the challenges facing these institutions and the measures they are working on is that it is not a task under State law. I would like to invite both the inter-pellant and the Council of State to a debate on this in an interview that I have reported and that will take place in this Chamber on 20 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3307	It is now more than ten years since the State took over the former county responsibility in the area of child protection. We got the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate, Buffdir, with direct responsibility to the Ministry of Children's, Gender and Inclusion, and we got Buffetat, as Buffetir's operational body, organized in five regions, and under there again regional teams. The aim was to strengthen child protection and strengthen the economy. Today we know that it is more than doubtful to claim that all ambitions were fulfilled. The interpellant addresses an important theme. We have strengthened child protection through more staff and increased competence in recent years. The red-green government's commitment to increased competence in municipal child protection has given increased resources and a stronger professional environment. We have also striven to strengthen the home offering on the basis of the wish that as many young as possible grow up in a normal home. The ambitions and intentions are good, but as the interpellant was involved, many foster parents are struggling because they are not followed up with guidance skills and relief. Recruitment of foster homes is difficult. In 2013, the majority conducted a wide-ranging debate on child protection on the basis of a proposition with a message part from the Red-Green Government. The national audit has been strongly critical of exceedances and lack of cost management in Bufetat. Several games, especially those that are now in position, were at the treatment of Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013 critical until the current organisational model works as intended. There may be a quick response between the State and the municipality on responsibilities and cost allocation. Although municipalities are responsible for assessing care transfers and choice of care levels, this is often a source of conflict between municipalities and Buffetat. For most young people who are no longer able to live at home, foster homes are preferable, but for young people with high behavioural problems, institutional space may be professionally appropriate, but it is more expensive. The centre party says in its program that we want to transfer essential parts of Bufatat's tasks to the local government sector. We will continue to work on models for this, but at the same time we will warn against urgent action being taken as part of the work on the municipal reform, where municipalities are given responsibility that can be too demanding to meet, both for municipalities with 2,000 inhabitants and for municipalities with well over 20,000 inhabitants. Recruitment of foster homes, guidance for foster parents and the establishment and quality assurance of institutional places are major tasks which require a high level of competence and a wide range of professional equipment. It is difficult to imagine that even large municipalities will do this on their own. Good and extensive inter-municipal cooperation will be important. A review of the organisation of child protection is needed. Today's state responsibility is no success and has hardly given disadvantaged kids any easier reality than before the reorganisation took place. We believe that it makes sense to see whether the states should once again have a role in the organisation of child protection, but we will come back to that. Finally, a different relationship. The Red-Green Government concluded a cooperation agreement between the State and the non-profit sector on the provision of health and social services. Own calls for tenders were also established for NPISHs in the field of child protection. The new government has signaled that it will not continue this practice, and it is a major step backwards. The Central Party, representing Kjersti Toppe, Liv Signe Navarsete and Marit Arnstad, has submitted a proposal for a representative asking the government to continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector and to continue the bidding rounds for non-profit organisations in the field of child protection. The non-profit sector has helped raise the level of social protection in our society. Their efforts have been, and are still, important to ensure a variety of offers, but also because of the innovation and development of their skills. A specific feature of the non-profit sector in relation to commercial actors is that the ideal ones are to share experience and acquire competence with the public sector. They look at themselves as part of a care chain and like to play with the public. This competence must be safeguarded, and I look forward to a debate in Stortinget on the basis of the representative proposal from Toppe, Navarsete and Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3327	I am pleased that the representative Mandt is raising this issue today. The left has also recently put forward a proposal for a NOU of foster home care. In the opinion of the Left, it is necessary to look at the whole of foster home care. More than eight out of ten placements are in foster homes, which is a strong increase. Foster homes are the most important care measures we have for children under care. Much good work is being done in developing better foster care. There are many evaluations and reports and there are several on-going. They all need to be put into a political and professional context in order to develop a good path towards foster home work. For the Left, it is important to avoid a patchwork policy in the future. Knowledge of foster home care needs to be brought into a wider context. There is a need to better systematise work and carry out a proper review. It is necessary to provide more knowledge of how and when to use foster homes, such as: What a foster home should be against the use of institutions, both related to investigation and care, and also against alternative care measures, such as drug use. SOS children's cities. There are, therefore, some fundamental aspects that we believe it is important that one should continue to take the initiative to clarify by means of a clear commitment and thorough review. The research that has been done around children growing up under public care is gloomy reading. Children and young people are weaker in school, health, education and work when they get into adult life. They also have more frequent mental disorders. This has great human costs. It also costs the community a lot of money and helps maintain inappropriate class divisions. Where foster homes are the answer to child care needs, a central goal must be to create lifelong relationships for the child. Today, there is a focus on all children growing up in foster homes, without necessarily having to be professionally justified on the child’s needs, but because it lies there as a guide. It might be children who want to have better assumptions in an institution. Some association studies support this. Unintentional abortions from foster homes can make some children worse. This may sometimes be related to the fact that some children or young people have needs for care and development that may be difficult to meet in the context of a so-called normal home, even if they are reinforced. Therefore, the need for knowledge of the needs of children and what in the long term provides the necessary development support is an important basis for the further development of foster home care. A thorough review of foster home care will just provide guidance on what a foster home should be and, at the same time, identify the alternatives to foster homes that we need that are also important care services. The role of institutions is important here. The situation today is that this is treated as an undesirable alternative, despite the fact that professional needs for investigation, treatment and care can be adequately met within these frameworks. Foster home care has many gaps today, and there are still areas where no decisions have been made or where there is a need to investigate more. This applies, inter alia, to: we need: more knowledge of what an investigation of children prior to admission should include co-operation arrangements, re-entry and adoption of partial party rights to the Legislature of the Legislature of the Infants under 15 years of age, in order to improve legal protection for children under 15 years of age, national guidelines on post-natal care and foreseeable framework conditions improve legal certainty with regard to movements, framework for guidance and follow-up of foster home better recruitment strategies, a more professional follow-up apparatus of foster homes to try to escape from individualised care, where cooperation, follow-up, assistance and control lie with a case handler These points are not exhaustive, and there is a need for a vigilance in foster home care, as well as the work already done today. We're going to do that in the left hand side and keep focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3377	I would also like to thank the interpellant for a very important interpellant. Child protection is an area where the former government was very committed, and where we experienced very broad support, because everyone saw that there was a need for a power cap. Now, when child protection in both municipalities and state child protection has been strongly strengthened in recent years, we also see that they are discovering more children. It's a little bit like that, that you don't believe it until you see it. I think the awareness of society is growing, the quality of children's childhood is growing, and child-protection efforts simply need to improve child protection, and you need, among other things, child protection. multiple foster homes. I am pleased with the articles of the Council of State, which follow up on the initiative of the previous government. That's very good. A lot of representatives have been involved in different parts of this that are important and correct, and I am not going to repeat it. But there is one point in this that has not been mentioned so far, I think, and that is the need for increased recruitment of foster homes among minority parents. When we look at the figures now, care takeover in minority settings is increasing. It is clear that there is then a need to recruit more good foster homes among minority parents, and there is a need to develop specific skills to guide these families. Last week I met some of these parents who had experienced that their children had been taken care of. There is a lot of misunderstanding and despair in it, and also a very great need for child protection that has time and resources to follow up families who do not know how to deal with matters. I have a long sailing time behind me in kindergarten – from the middle of the 1970s. And I wasn't a child, I was an adult. I guess there's a danger of being misunderstood when I say what I'm saying now, but we actually had a municipal offer at the time that I saw helping some of those families that didn't. That's what you used to call housewives. It was simply someone who went home to some of the families who were ill, to show how to do the simplest things to take care of the children with food, clothes and such things. It wasn't necessarily parents who didn't understand what was bad and looking for the children, but they were simply a little helpless in dealing with society. I think a lot of parents need a lot more of that guidance. I have unfortunately also met with child protection who said that they do not have time for it, because the serious issues take all the time. Therefore, we must continue to strengthen municipal child protection, so that they have time to do so, but also time to follow-up foster homes, to ensure them, and to ensure that municipalities have their own environments of competence to supervise foster homes, as has now been decided – that the two roles are not mixed. It's incredibly important. But it's also incredibly important that foster parents have a competent child protection system to rely on when they ask for help, because that's what most people will need. Last week I visited the intercommunal child protection in Solør – there are three municipalities working together. I very much agree with those who say that you need a competent child protection of a certain size. I fully agree with that. But I also want to say that I know large municipalities that have poor child protection. So it's not the size that matters, it's that you do the job in a real way. But what this child protection took up, and I think we need to look at together – both the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Municipal Affairs – is how we will finance child protection in the future. The displayed figures related to cost keys, actual child protection expenditure and the earmarked grants, and they set up a system similar to what we currently have on resource-requiring services, for child protection. Because there is also so much variation between municipalities, and because of the situation, the general parameters of how we safeguard the local economy can, in no way, meet any of these major needs that may arise, such as: in cases of complete emergency. I think that is absolutely necessary, because I am absolutely sure that the municipalities must have increased resources, increased resources for positions and increased resources for the development of skills if child protection is to be as good as everyone agrees it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3394	In a child's first year of life, there is a crucial development that is fundamental to life later. This is why early efforts in the field of child protection are so important. This is a whole deal. Strong professional environments, good interaction between municipal and state child protection and good work sharing are crucial. I'm glad that the interpellant underlines this in its interpellation, and I share her concern about today's child protection lives up to the ambitions that we politicians have made for the supply to be given. Unfortunately, I get a strong signal that cooperation agreements between Bufetat and municipalities, which were concluded to strengthen cooperation, are not followed up by Bufetat. Conversions are being made. Tasks that have been solved in the past through the national child protection system will be transferred to municipalities without dialogue and warning. The reason for this is a lack of economic resources in Bufetat. But I assume that we are some people who say that the economy of state child protection is the responsibility of the state, and not something that can be demanded solved by the municipalities. The board of KS Rogaland has recently advised the municipalities to go out and cancel the cooperation agreements. Several people can follow, this is unfortunate. It is particularly the closure and restructuring of the family and children's centres that have been asked to flee to many in municipal child protection. In the West Region, it may seem that two thirds of the supply is being lost. The supply in Förde and Stavanger is being reduced, while the supply in Bergen is being reduced. Just these centres are those that can guide parents in caring or those that can monitor their care for children. Here Bufetat borders the weakest, e.g. age group 0–6 years. Then Stortinget deals with the changes in child protection laws through Prop. 106, there were clear leads to ensure the supply of the most deferred families with infants and young children. A proposal to legislate on this offer did not get multiples, but an emphasis on the fact that this was a special task that could not be left to the municipalities alone was agreed on. It's obvious that there's a need here for something clearer: a law enforcement. The changes that have now been made by Bufetat at regional level cannot in any way be expected to comply with the estimates made by the Stortinget on how to give and organise the supply. There are also clear indications from the current government about how changes in work-sharing between municipal and state child protection should take place. In its order, the Ministry states by letter of disposal for 2014: ‘The municipalities concerned shall be given the opportunity to comment on planned changes in the offer to the municipalities and shall be notified in good time before the changes enter into force. This is in order for municipalities to experience the greatest possible predictability of the provision of national child protection.’.» My reaction is primarily to the fact that the state protection of children changes the arrangements for cooperation between the municipalities and shut down the children's and family centres. It affects defenseless children. My reaction was enhanced by the fact that Bufetat did not follow the player lines for evaluating changes in the task distribution. It is important that the Council of State takes this into account, and I am pleased that the Council of State has stopped this process. What's important when you keep going is that your supply is in the state, and that you get a legal protection, so that you can have a good child protection at all levels, and that your child protection doesn't get swayed through a black player game.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3416	First, I want to thank you for a very good debate with a lot of input and with a lot of commitment. I think it's children's best we all here have focused on. Governments have received many tips and advice that I hope she can take with her in her further work. But I have some comments. First of all, there has to be room for the difference in a home. Not everyone is A4, so we also have to have rules that catch up when there's a care failure, and when there's a difference. I think it's important what the Council of State said, that when four out of five are satisfied in foster homes, we have to look at what really works, and see if we can see best practice. I think the Council of State also had a good point of entry in terms of legal certainty for the young, and that parents who are being deprived of their children actually need follow-up. They need help and support, and that's important, because there's nothing worse and harder than taking your own kids away from you. Everyone here understands that it has to be hard. That's why we have to try to make this the best possible possible. Some people do it voluntarily because they see that they can't take care of their kids, while other cases are more dramatic and occur under compulsion. Therefore, it is very good that the Council of State follows up this work. The rights of foster parents should also be assessed in this respect. Long relationships may mean having children for many, many years. It is important that children also remain in contact with the foster family. As the representative Tønder says, it is no longer common family relationships when you have an unborn child. There are very often kids who have big ballasts with them. Then you have to enable your foster parents to receive them in a good way. It may be difficult, it may be demanding, and it may be devastating for an otherwise stable family relationship if you do not get the follow-up, and not least the relief, which is necessary in many cases. The foster parents do a very important job for society. Then we owe them that way and work easier. Summert, I think that knowledge, quality, follow-up and post-protection as well as support for foster parents and good cooperation practices must be a sum of the debate that has been here today. It's not easy. The sum of that is pretty much. But I hope that the debate we have had today can lift the foster home debate, so that we can see solutions, and that we will have better foster home care in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3433	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. It was good to be back in this room and be allowed to discuss child protection. The debate has shown that there are many issues that we can address, and I know we will have more debates later this spring. The interpellant raises a very important question about foster parents. We need foster parents, and we need good foster parents. To get this done, we also have to give them a course so they know what they're going to. At the same time, it's incredibly important that they get follow-up. When there are four out of five who are satisfied, however, the one who is not content is one too much. Then we have to make sure that the municipalities put this on the agenda, that they focus on giving proper and good follow-up. When there's a conflict between child protection and foster families, we have to do everything we can to resolve the conflict. Here the best of children must always be decisive. When one child has to move from one foster family to another, we have failed. Then we all have to do a job. There were several questions that came up. I want to tell the representative Aasrud that this government was impatient. We wanted to get the supervisory board started earlier. It has now started from 1 February. Municipalities shall report on its functioning from 1 July. It is also important to tell the municipalities that they can have the same arrangement as today. It is child protection that can carry out this supervision, but the municipality may choose other ways to do so. It is also important that we get the trust that children should have in child protection. It's good that it comes, it's out at the hearing and comes to summer, so the kids have a trust person that they can relate to. Both representatives from the Central Party were involved in the tasks of the municipality. A large number of municipalities are small and have established intermunicipal cooperation. The problems don't have to be whether they're small or big, because we see, as many people have, that there are also large municipalities that fail in terms of child protection. Therefore, it is important that the municipalities that can participate in intermunicipal cooperation do so. The conflict between state and municipal child protection has been there, and we need to look at it in order to get much better relationships. There is an overall increase that has taken place to give municipalities greater responsibility for child protection. Then we also have to make sure that the municipalities are able to take over that task. I would like to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party, for only those who had made suggestions during the discussion of the proposition in ours that the family/children's centres should be required to do so. I think we all now see that we need to have a review of this. That is why I stopped the transition that is now taking place until we get the report on the table and see how we can develop the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3450	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3464	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3469	A legal state sometimes has to ask itself some questions, and this case is based on just this. Is it a legal State worthy of being able to avoid criminal liability by persons who commit incest? Is it a legal State worthy of being able to avoid criminal liability by persons who commit a rape? Is it a legal State worthy of being able to avoid criminal liability by those who commit murder? The answer, of course, is no. Let me mention a lady named Torunn Austdal Rasmussen. She lost her daughter, Tina, almost 14 years ago. Tina was 20 years old when she disappeared, and before she was found, she would have reached the age of 21. She never experienced that. Torunn Austdal Rasmussen describes his life with that every day begins with a great, dark cloud, a dark cloud that hides it her daughter was exposed to. On September 24th this year it will be exactly 14 years since Tina was found killed. Torunn is afraid that there will be a day when the limitation period will be reached and the killer can stand by without having to take responsibility for his actions. Torunn has been clear that the punishment is only part of what she wants. The most important thing is to know who did it, why he killed his daughter, and why the assault happened. "First, I can get a sort of closure," she says. For the Committee on Justice, it must be unproblematic to say that we fully support Mr Austdal Rasmussen in her wish to know, and we as a committee are doing something about that today. A number of previous governments could have taken the initiative of the Justice Committee and the Stortinget today. My goal is not to blame anyone, but at the same time I stress that the possibility has been present a number of times. The bigger reason is now to rejoice that almost a total increase gives the government a clear work order – an order that the government happily accepts. It is therefore a pleasure that we present an overall committee position. Let me first give tribute to the proposers for promoting the proposal of the representative, to the Committee for the adoption of an agreement on these important proposals of principle, and not least: I want to give tribute to my own party in order to finally win after a long battle, because the Progress Party has several times promoted the proposal we are discussing today, but then unfortunately it has been voted down by the majority on the Stortinget. In the setting there are clear requirements for today's government. It gets a short time to deliver, and I therefore allow myself to quote from the setting: ‘The Committee points out that this amendment to the law is considered to be well-founded and that, on this basis, the government will return with a proposition to the Stortinget at the latest before the presentation of the revised national budget for 2014.’ I don't think it can be said more clearly. The judicial committee's requirement is that the legislative amendment should take place during the first six months of the year. Following today’s discussion, the issues affected by the proposed changes here today will not become obsolete when the forthcoming legislative change is sanctioned by the King of the Council of State. That means that killers, rapists and incest offenders must take responsibility for what they have done. This is a change that supports the victims of such crime, and the Stortinge now corrects some of the past injustices they have suffered. In its work, the Committee has looked into whether the proposed changes could conflict with the Constitution § 97. The Judicial Committee is of the clear opinion that this is not the case, because matters that are already obsolete will not be affected by the changes that are being promoted here. In other words, the law changes will be applied to matters that are not obsolete, and in this way, the amendments to the Constitution § 97 are not affected. It's in many ways a happy day because we can now get together and get something that should have been a natural thing a long time ago. At the same time, it is sad that we have had to experience that some serious issues in our country have become obsolete because of the insidiousness of this matter. But now we're soon at the end of the road to get a law that I think is also in line with people's legal opinion, and where we put the victim in the center, not the criminal. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3503	I would first of all like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and for its good case-speakership. I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party for raising this proposal for a representative. This case is a cross-political one, and it is positive that we now gather thinks that this deadline should be removed. The Stoltenberg II Government is proposing to remove the limitation period for killing and sexual assault against children on a hearing in February last year and notify the Stortinget of its own proposition during 2013 after the hearing was over. Saka has – as the representative Leirstein also said – settled, and that is also why the Labour Party is somewhat surprised in the comments that there was no formal case from the government before this proposal for a representative came. It may seem that the pressure from the Christian People's Party has been important. Either way, it's very good for the cause, for the victims and the relatives, that there is a full agreement that the government will come to the Stortinge with proposals for changes of promise in an owned proposition. I can't avoid commenting on the Progression Party procedure, because if one were to add a basis to the Progression Party, one would think that this matter should already have been in Stortinget with concrete proposals for legislative decisions. The progress game has previously given the impression that this is just changing now, directly as a bill in Stortinget. But it doesn't do the Progress Party right now, in government. Now we see that the Progress Party's own government council also sees the need to deal with matters more clearly than it already is, and we can read in the letter of answer from the Council of State that one aims at making a proposition for the Storting before the summer, which will include detailed clarifications of the questions asked by the representative in the proposal. It is good, but it must be a little wonder what new distribution needs are now leading. What's not really going to work out? I'll listen to answers that come, when they do. We have all read the terrible stories that this is all about, about young people who have suffered a serious failure to care for their growth and who have reported this in retrospect. We know that a lot of kids never tell how they feel at home, that many people are asking for stories from childhood that come up later in life. Several people have also given such stories a facet in recent times. As a leader of the Workers' Party's selection against power in close relationships, I am also very busy with what is called the 'exposed limitation period', which is not a concrete reference in the form of proposals today, because today, the limitation period in matters of sexual relations with children and issues of sexual mutilation is calculated from the time it is nigh 18 years old. This is to make sure that children who are sexually assaulted have a real chance to report this, and that they are old enough to understand what they have been exposed to. The Stoltenberg II government would extend this scheme to include several criminal acts against children and young people, such as the violation of the protection obligation, elected in close relations, forced marriages, etc., and I hope that this point will also be followed up by the new government in that announced proposition. There are legal bases for putting a dot in criminal cases, but for the most serious criminal acts, no point can be seen until the offender has been punished, no matter how long it has been since the crime occurred. The Labour Party supports the proposals made by the Christian People's Party in the matter and looks forward to the government returning to the Stortinget, which was signalled in the letter to the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3522	Finally, the day we've been looking forward to has arrived. With this Document 8, we see the beginning of a year-long process of abolishing the limitation periods for killing, rape and incest. The road here has been long. Although, in fact, there has been a majority in this case for several years, political insidiousness has made serious crimes obsolete in a row and series. It is very gratifying that support for this legislative change seems to be becoming cross-political. It is equally gratifying that the law change will come quickly. I would like to thank the proposers in the Christian People's Party who have put the matter on the agenda, and the Progress Party for having been interested in this matter for a long time. In particular, there is reason to thank the Council of States, which repeatedly shows that the mantra ‘traffic force’ is more than just a slogan. Removing these limitation periods is a right thing to do. However, from some quarters, it has been argued that at some point all criminal offences must be forgotten. It might apply to some conditions, but certainly not to all. Today, we can get a situation where a killer goes free – not because the evidence is missing, not because the admission is missing, not because the terms of criminality are missing, but simply because a standardised limitation period has accidentally expired. That a killer should be able to avoid liability and judgment because the clock ticks and goes against a statutory deadline, is simply not well enough justified. So it's not like that, as someone claims, that it will now be free to bring back ancient cases for court. It is raised above any doubt, as the representative Ulf Leirstein once said, that matters that are obsolete under the old law will still be. It has also been claimed by some critics that it is resource-efficient for society to make serious crime obsolete at some point in time. This is also a very little striking argument, because it will not be possible for all things now to be taken up – far into eternity. We need to know that evidence loses its weight over time, and that's something both the prosecution and the courts have to take into account in their assessments. There may still be some crimes that go into the history books without judgment, but what we're doing now is removing a square and formalist rule that has stood in the way of completely fundamental principles of justice, and we're replacing them by making it a legal assessment – not a measurement of deadlines. Some never hurt doctors. Even if a judgment itself cannot replace it, it can solve. Although a judgment itself cannot repair, it can relieve. This change in rules, which Stortinget is asking for today, provides an opportunity for more victims and survivors of serious crime to receive the upliftment they had never been able to receive. The right is very much in favour of the proposals made in Document 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3541	First, I must be allowed to thank the case rapporteur from the Progress Party for a good cooperation. And then I have to say that I like the new parliamentary situation, where it is actually such that the Storting is doing a real job, and not least that the Christian People's Party is adopting its proposals. There's a completely different situation than the eight preceding years under red-green rule. But to the matter: Drap, incest and rape are very terrible and serious crimes that violate the human being most seriously. This is a crime that characterizes the victim and its relatives for a very long time, maybe life out. The rules of limitation restrict the possibility of criminal proceedings and thus also the possibility of the offender being convicted. The reasons for maintaining the rules on limitation in the event of killings and serious infringements are of minor importance in this respect. Enforcement of the law in such cases is more important both for individuals and for society in general. I'm going to take some of the arguments against the decision we're making today. First of all, those who claim that the removal of the limitation period may increase the risk of the murder of a criminal, either by the loss of evidence or by the fact that the evidence becomes more unreliable. Yes, some of the reasons behind the rules are that evidence can become more uncertain the longer it goes from the criminal relationship to the case before the court. The evidence must be clear, regardless of the time – the presumption of innocence is established. And so this argument does not have such a meaning in matters as serious as killing and gross assault. The change we are making in the rules of limitation today does not change the terms of criminality, so the legal certainty of the individual citizen is equally strong – if not stronger. In addition, significant technological progress has been made in recent years, which speaks to re-assess this. When we have the opportunity to find the perpetrator after a long time, through e.g. biological traces, it will be essential that it is also possible to judge the perpetrator. So to the argument that the limitation rules are to ensure that the prosecution authority investigates criminal offences within reasonable limits. We are today deciding to remove the limitation period for killing and sexual assault, and killing and serious assault are to be given priority by the prosecution authority regardless of the rules on limitation, which in my opinion does not allow this argument to be given much weight. A third argument is that the need for punishment decreases over the years. If the guilty person has not committed new offences, the need to punish the offender will be reduced and if the offender has committed new criminal offences, he may be punished for them. This consideration applies in very many cases, but not in cases involving incest, rape and killing. The need for punishment will not diminish in such cases as the proposal refers to, because of the serious nature of the criminal offence. It may be intrusive, both for the culprit and for the family, if the culprit is punished many years after the offence has been committed, but by killing, incest and rape this argument cannot be given the same weight. Let's clearly pick the victim's side. The limitation period for killing and rape should have been removed a long time ago, but today, fortunately, we have a majority of the Christian People's Party's proposals to remove it. It makes this an important day for many and can help people who would have escaped the most serious crimes now be held responsible for their actions, even after a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3560	Storting has an important issue for treatment today. The question is also, as I see it, especially in principle, for Stortinget today deviated from a system that has long traditions in Norway, i.e., one at some point in time set a sentence for criminal acts and for the consequences of these. The centre party is wholeheartedly in favour of the proposal as it stands today. We think it's high time we changed the limitation period for the most serious circumstances, as the proposal now accepts. At the same time, we are aware that other less serious circumstances should retain their temptations. The lifting of the limitation period for the most serious types of crime is important both for the offended and the abandoned, but also for the police, by providing tools for investigating and resolving cases even after a certain period of time. The Stoltenberg II government is launching an important work on these principally demanding questions. We had a process beyond the fall, until last year's government shift. Unfortunately, the new government did not immediately grasp that process. It is therefore very gratifying with this proposal that came from the Christian People's Party, which continues our view of the matter. For many offended and abandoned people, it is not always the most important thing to get an offender convicted; it may well be so important to get some answers. Then it is important that the police – as the only public, and most important, research unit we have – can also continue investigations after the given time. The community also has an interest in not providing legal space, just based on time gone. Perpetrators who have committed serious criminal acts, such as killing, molesting and sexual assault on young people, shall not feel confident that they are not held responsible for their actions. The size shall be aware that the evidence situation, when one is going to bring a case through the judicial system after the expiry of the current limitation period, will be demanding. Living evidence forgets things, and the trustworthiness of the explanation can be weakened. Here is one of the major challenges, but hopefully we can lift the limitation period for the worst lawbreakers, leading to a number of more people getting answers to their questions. Technology is moving forward. New methods of analysis of biological material are coming. This can provide important answers in the future. I want to learn here how important the DNA reform was. It is quite certain that several matters of choice and killing will be solved in the future with the technology that we have in front of us. The centre party is pleased with the change in law that is now being passed. This shows that the Stortinget, as the representative Ropstad said, is clearly on the side of the victim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3577	The Judicial Committee has now presented a unanimous case to the Stortinget asking the government to promote a legislative amendment to end the limitation period in criminal proceedings relating to incest, rape and murder. The debate will be re-examined later and in its full scope. I therefore take the floor only to give an explanation of vote on behalf of the Left. The left will vote in favour of II and IV of the proposal. These points of the proposal relate to the postponement of the limitation period in cases of trafficking in human beings and sexual mutilation. After the proposal, the limitation period will not start until the end of the 18-year-old. The other parts of the proposal concern the termination of the limitation period, and we will oppose that. The limitation of criminal offences is a fundamental principle in our liberal state of law. Although we have today lifted the limitation period for crimes such as genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and terror, we must guard against creating a precedent that lowers the threshold to eliminate the crime of other crimes. Evidence weakens over time, and the risk of misconceptions and murders of the judiciary increases. Just because the requirement of proof must be as strict when it has been a long time, it will be difficult to imagine that it will be appropriate to commit criminal proceedings more than 25 years after a serious act has been committed. As you know, not one technical evidence alone could lead to a conviction. An overall assessment of the evidence must be required to ensure the detection of criminal offences. Although some evidence may be retained, others may have been lost or become unreliable. The need for punishment in society and by offended and relatives is decreasing as time passes. Many offended people will need to put the matter behind them. The penalty will also have little or no effect on the culprit who may be held responsible for a youth sin at the end of a long life, for example. 50 years later. Overall, it must be essential that the objectives of counter-criminal prosecution are strengthened as time goes on and that the danger of harming innocent people cannot overshadow any criminal need in some cases. In the 2013 consultation round, several professional bodies were critical of eradicating the perpetrators of the crimes in question. Some of the hearing bodies also pointed out that some of the proposals were primarily of political significance, more than a real change that would result in more convictions. We cannot let the media control the development of our criminal law and criminal proceedings. The left therefore opposes the proposal of the Judicial Committee, with the exception of II and IV, for which we would like to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3600	SV is not in the committee, but we will support the proposal to abolish the limitation period for incest, election and killing. I would like to commend the Christian People's Party and the proposers to address this proposal now. When it's the occasion to talk about history in a good way for myself, with which I thought the case-speaker was initiating, I think maybe we should all put it away now and admit that those who made this change were different from us. It was like Annett Berntsberg Eck and many other individuals who stood up and told their stories and made all parties aware that a change was necessary here. In the last round, when it came up, – as far as I could figure out – all or almost all of the games went out and supported it. A proposal for a hearing was sent from the previous government. Now there's a Document 8 proposal, which gets the same one, broadly supported, and it's a warning that the government will bring a case to the Stortinget about it. I thought a worthy storytelling was that we've discovered some new things in society. We take the facts of this -- the serious crime -- in a more serious way than we've done before, and we might understand more of their character: it often takes a long time for them to get up. And we might better understand the need to change the limitation period. It's sometimes positive that it's allowed to acknowledge change, and that there might be broad agreement on this in the Storting. In conclusion, I just want to say that I also hope to see that when the proposal comes to the Storting, it contains the full width of different conditions that were sent on the hearing in its time, i.e. that it also covers the choice of close relations, forced marriages, trafficking in human beings and some other matters, which were not part of the Document 8 proposal at present, but which have been heard and which may be part of the government's proposal. I hope we'll see it when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3617	Today, the Storting deals with a very important matter – a matter that will affect many individual ships, and for which many people have worked very hard over a very long time. The debate has evolved over that period of discussion. But that development, I don't think, would have come if it hadn't been for the commitment that lies behind the March Earth that the Storting is giving the government today. It is an important signal that a unanimous committee and almost a unanimous increase are behind the proposals adopted today. I would like to link some comments to the treatment process. I think it was the representative who indicated that this had taken a long time with the new government. I would like to remind you that her own government has been sitting for eight years and has put this out for consultation only in the last year they were sitting. This government has followed up the work of the previous government, but it is difficult to do it faster than what has now been done, and we are now in a situation where the government will present these concrete amendments at the latest in connection with the revision, as it says in the vote. I also think it's worth noting what Solhjell's representative said, just related to the legal developments that have taken place. Although the limitation period for serious crime has been discussed in many rounds and in many different forums, it is only in recent years that one has seen an evolution from having a rather principled starting point that everything should become obsolete at some point in time, that some of the most serious criminal acts have gradually been viewed in a slightly different way. It concerns terrorism, crimes against humanity, and now it also concerns the areas specifically mentioned in the attitude. I also want to stress – as has been done in many of the good speeches that have been held from the pulpit – that this applies to the most serious cases. But that doesn't change the evidence requirements. It is still the case that evidence is equally stringent in relation to the cases before the court, but there is no final limit to the time when one can bring those evidence before the court. I think it is important to the kind of crime that we see here, that one does not have a clock that ticks and ticks and that actually appears to be an additional burden on the people affected, in addition to the burden they are already subjected to by the fact that their case has not been resolved. I also think this situation will lead to that we should look at how we deal with these matters, which have become old. It is necessary to see if we are following up on matters that have been over the years, in a good enough way. In this context, I want to engage in dialogue with the prosecution authorities to see if the way these matters are being followed up today is good enough, and what we can do to improve the process and follow-up of matters that have been lying for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3634	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, says to the VG on 4 March that the Progress Party will use untraditional methods to change the rules on retirement. He says to VG that there will be a bill directly in Stortinget, and that the procedure that is now in place is unique. To newspaper he says that the Progress Party should place ‘human beings ahead of bureaucratic processes’. The procedure adopted by the Committee is not unique. The Minister of Justice wrote to the Committee in his letter of reply that he intended to send a proposal to the Stortinget before the summer when the question was thoroughly resolved, despite the fact that several progress party representatives have said that the matter is well settled. The case in Stortinget today is not untraditional, nor does it suggest that the bill is passed directly, as Ellings says to VG. Then the question is, what is untraditional and unique about the procedure of the government party in the matter, and what kind of recognition can it seem that the Progress Party and the Minister of Justice have come into government, which one did not come into opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3643	I'm a little surprised at that post, because I should like to see the representative Awake! present an example that the Storting in this way, in the concrete way that this is done, instructs the government in what to present to the Stortinget. At least it hasn't happened during the eight-year period her own party put in government, and it hasn't happened so far in this big period either. It's untraditional. Normally, the Stortinge is considerably more liberal in its mandates to the government when such representative proposals are discussed. What has been important for the government parties, and certainly also for the proposers, is that one should have a process as fast as possible. This is achieved by the fact that the Storting is now putting an even stronger pressure on the government than what was already the starting point. If the representative could be kind enough to put forward some specific issues where similar proposals have been adopted in Stortingen, in the last period e.g., I would be excited about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3648	That's not what I asked for, but I can leave it. My point was that representatives from the Progress Party are saying one thing in the media and doing something else in the Stortinget. I have another question for the Council of State. The Council of State says to the Committee that one aims to send a proposal to the Storting before the summer, and that is very good, but he also says that one there will thoroughly address the questions that the proposal is now raising. Is it so to understand that one should go ahead now, in addition to what the Stoltenberg II government did? And what concrete parts of the proposal that are making here today, my Council of State is not doing well enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3655	So what we're doing is we're writing a proposition for the Storting. We're going to do it even faster than what I wrote in the letter to the committee, because the Storting decides that it should be presented at the latest in the context of revision. The matter is well settled. It has been at the hearing, and it is the completion of the proposal that remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3660	If there are clearer instructions from the Stortinget – more often – to which the Council of State invites, I will not be difficult to pray, but leave it alone. It's very happy now to right that the proposition comes quickly and is on track, as I understand it. But the question I would like to address is whether we can expect it will also hold questions about power in close relationships, forcible marriages, human trafficking and a couple of relationships, as part of what has been on the listener. I think it would be important, because it's also about very serious lawbreaks, which I perceive have some of the value changes that we've been about, and which I, among other things, have. was in my post. Can we expect that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3669	There will be one of the assessments the government will make in the course of its work on this proposition, and it will be anchored in the government in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3674	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3677	Finally, we've taken the first steps on the way to lifting the victims. The revised budget, to which reference has been made, is not long to come to the Stortinget. Here we talk about four to five weeks. The party of progress has had this matter up to voting several times, not later than last year, on 19 June. Then the police had been clear that there had been new signs in the much-mentioned Therese case, but also at the time the proposal was voted down by the red-green government. The Therese case became obsolete. So every month, new perpetrators release from the consequences of criminal acts that have been committed, and every day there are people who can rub their hands and say, "There I escaped." I will not put up with this post. Most of it has been said. But the Left Party takes sides for the criminal and his rights instead of taking sides for the victims and their rights, makes me very amazed. When, in addition, the representative from the Left manages to say that the adulterer should not be responsible for a youth sin, I am really upset. Yeah, I don't have words. Killing, violence and assault are no sin. These are serious criminal acts that no one should be able to escape. That is why all the other parties vote for this amendment. I will also give an extra tribute to all the victims who have taken the burden of standing up in the public room, thus giving all the other victims in our country a voice and a face. Many of these strong women and strong men are sitting in this gallery right now. Without these, our words here today would have been without knowledge, and they would have been without understanding. As I said, removing the limitation period is only a beginning to lift the rights of the victims. Soon there will be more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3692	It is not that the Left does not sympathise with the victims of such criminal acts, and this debate is considerably more nuanced than the previous speaker said. Ageing has been a fundamental principle in our liberal state of law until now. There are very few crimes for which the limitation period has been lifted. When we asked the investigation section here at Stortinget about one had examples of cases where a crime had been solved after the limitation period had expired, we received feedback that there was first of all no statistics about it, but that beyond that they did not know of any cases. It's kind of natural because you don't investigate a crime as long as you can't get a conviction. But they had one case that they knew about. There was a killing where the perpetrator had stood up after the limitation period had expired, and he had stood up because the limitation period had expired. Then the relatives got a response to what had happened, and who had done it. For some it also means something, and for some it means most, more than being able to judge a person who has done an action for a very long time back. It is not that the Left also has great sympathy with those who are being subjected to these abuses, but this has, as I said, been a fundamental principle in our liberal state of law until now, where it is being waived.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3701	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3715	I just want to say in the beginning that my post concerns the matter no. 4 and 5 on the Scissor Card today. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in dealing with these matters. It's been excellent. There is a unanimous setting, as indicated in the case-list. The matter has also been referred to the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee without comments. The case concerns consent to the ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights and related necessary amendments to Norwegian legislation. What is important to emphasise is that the matter does not involve any changes to the substantive rights of the Convention on Human Rights. It is more a modernisation of language, I would say. I would also like to point out the attachment in the matter. The Justice Committee sent a question to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asking for clarification of the interpretation of the translation of the Convention text from English to Norwegian. I just want to refer to the attachment to the setting, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' deepening and clarification is described for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3726	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3740	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3754	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3770	With this interpellation, I would like to highlight the police coverage in our country and the local preparedness. I'm busy that we at the Storting, as the top populace in the country, should be able to influence how the police are developing in the next few years. However, pending the police reform being presented to the Stortinget for political management, there are processes that have gone, and that go, in the police action that counteracts our ability to influence. The police are strong among the inhabitants of Norway. It warms the heart of a justice politician that it is, because the police's new high trust is important. This applies both to the police as a body and to the individuals on the floor. In many countries, police are viewed as much as a threat to security. For most people living in Norway, this is not the case. Police are important in the community. As the word says, the police are close. It involves the knowledge of people and the conditions of the area, both society, business, geography and the activity of both adults and young people. At the same time, there is no doubt that this near police force is now threatened. In the police districts, many Länsmann offices are being lost for resources. Recently, a gunman contacted me and told me that his police officer had previously removed four positions from his office, and that all the other police officers now will also disappear. The gentleman is left sitting alone with half an office employee. I have used the term that the law's long arm is amputated with the development with an increasing number of loner offices. In such cases that are mentioned now, it is not an amputation at the elbow or wrist, but that the fingers are removed one by one, and that one is left only with the palm of the hand. Then there won't be many arguments left to not take the rest. Then we're at the core of today's problem: what is it like to put down a loner's office? The law clearly states that no Länsmannskontoret should be able to lay down without it being dealt with by the government, by a royal resolution. But, in my opinion, it is clearly a closure in practice when the positions are picked away as they have been from the named loner, and in many other offices around the country. They lose their fingers, who are the police officers and they're civilly added. The palm that's left is an empty or almost empty office room with a note on the door saying that people have to contact another place, or that it's only open between hours. 9 and 12 on Fridays. I wonder if the Council of State can explain how to understand the law, and what police officers can formally do within the framework of the law. In addition to the purely formal dimension, there is another important dimension here, and it is that we are waiting for a popular administration of an important police reform. It's no secret that in the Center Party, we want to maintain a diverse structure of LEN's office, not because it's supposed to be half empty or empty office space there, but because we're going to have an active near-police that knows people and that people know their faces. That's why I want a wide debate now, which highlights these themes. It is important that the Storting clearly emphasise that one has to take things in the right order, and that the laws and rules are followed. Police, preparedness and organisation will be frequently debated in this Chamber in the future. Big questions are warnings, and hopefully these debates will be fact-based. Preparedness and police coverage are central to making people feel safe. Many people are concerned about what it will be like in municipalities if the local police disappear. The exposure to retaining the janitor's office is great when people see that it's threatened. Police must be organized so that they create security for people in their everyday lives, while at the same time being able to deal with major events. Norway is a long-distance and quite scurvy country. The structure of the police must be adapted to this. We need a model that matches our relationship. Experience from other countries is absolutely useful to bring along, only one does not forget the conditions that, after all, are special to our country and society. The police have many important functions. They shall be visible and present. They should be able to do preventive work, be quick on the spot when something happens and investigate matters both quickly and well. I'm busy with the police having a face. As my son once said, when he heard that I was using the bypass of the local police, Mother, when I hear the word "near police," I think of him Per police. Per police is the name we use on a police officer who lives in our municipality. Because of the local janitor's office where we live, we don't see the police as a faceless intrusion and expression police. The system of lumbar areas has long traditions in Norway. The district is related to the municipal division, and the establishment or closure of the county councils must be managed by the council, after the administration of the municipalities. The intention has been to have a local police officer and a police officer present throughout the country. This is a regulated procedure that police officers are obliged to follow. But some places have a sense that co-location is something else than putting them down. So it's becoming more important than reality. Some police districts do want to bypass the law's procedure. One can ask questions about whether it is sufficient to place a bilgeman's office, that a note is hung on the door and that one should contact other places. In some areas, one is due to recruitment problems, division of tasks and preparedness. The most important thing, as I see it, is to give persuasive relationships. Getting started will search for offices that are clearly lost for resources or that are likely to be laid down. A practice of snitching the lenght offices makes us politicians powerless. When one goes outside to set procedures, we lose our tools to influence social development. The normal movement and rocking of resources between service units must be within the control of the individual police officer, as there is an urgent need for people. However, there must be a general understanding that there is no possibility of reducing resources in a county so much that the office cannot implement the functions imposed by the law. There has also been a clear signal from the Directorate of Police that cutting down the County of Länsmann by reducing the crew is not acceptable, and that it breaks with the intention of law. So it seems that the law is well understood in the police, but it doesn't seem that all the police districts have the same understanding. The former Minister of Justice of the Red-Green Government, Grete Faremo, also addressed this issue directly with the Police Directorate, in order to clarify that, pending the police reform, the process of structural change would be halted. I think the current Minister of Justice has to repeat and like to reinforce that immunity and I would like to right if he's going to do it, because there's no doubt that it's bad for the People's Government to change structures before the Storting has dealt with the police analysis, and before we've come up with our ruling opinions on how the future police are going to be. I shall not ignore the fact that there may be a basis for adaptation in some county, but should make changes, it must be locally anchored and followed by ordinary rules of procedure. It is important that the distance to the local loner office is not too great. It is about the police being able to prevent crime, detect lawbreakers quickly and clear up as much as possible. In the forthcoming policing process of the police reform, the Central Party will work to strengthen the neighbourhood police force. Finally, I hope the Minister of Justice will make it clear that if changes are to be made to the County of Länsmann, a follow-up must be made to the procedure. We cannot accept a practice in which the offices of janitors are depleted, so that there is, in reality, a closure even if the cases have not been settled by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3812	Let me first thank the interpellant for a good and thorough interpellation. The police represent the security of the citizens, and the question of where the police are going to have their offices increases engagement. I have a great deal of understanding for that. At the same time, the need to make changes to the local structure of the police arises from time to time. Then it is important that the police act follows the driving rules applicable to such processes. It follows from Section 16 of the Police Act that police are to be organised in police districts, and that these should again be divided into county districts and police station districts. It belongs to the King to determine the police district division and the division into the county districts and police station districts. Some places are several janitorial offices and police stations organised on a common holding, also called regions. Such holdings perform some common functions and are managed by one of the officers or police station managers included in the holding. The purpose of the common holdings is, inter alia, to: ensuring the best possible preparedness in the districts and good service arrangements consistent with the working time arrangements. The content of these arrangements varies somewhat, and there may be differing views on how much of the activities of the county offices and police stations can be regionalised without compromising the intention of the law on what should be the responsibility of a county or police station district. The authority to establish common holdings is based on the Ministry. In allocating powers to the Police Directorate of the previous Government in 2010 to determine the administrative structure of the holding, it was assumed by the Ministry that it is the individual borrower who has the professional management of the Länsmannskontoret, while the internal or administrative organisation of the budget, staff responsibilities, business planning, etc. be provided by the lenender who is the manager of the holding. The Ministry's letter to the Directorate also states that, in the event of a change in the structure of the holding, there will be no changes in the boundaries or in the outlying tasks of the service units, and that the officers' offices will remain and carry out the same police and officers' functions as before. The letter further states that the establishment of holdings shall take place in close cooperation with the municipalities concerned and the professional organisations of the establishment. NOU 2013:9, often referred to as the ‘police analysis’, proposes some organisational changes to the police. As you know, it is proposed to reduce the number of police districts, from today's 27 districts. The selection has outlined three models with eight, ten and six police districts, respectively, and the sample has recommended the latter. Furthermore, the sample recommended that the number of service locations be local, i.e. janitorial offices and police stations are being considerably reduced, from around the present day. 350 places of employment. In order to justify the proposal to reduce the number of police districts, the sample points out among others: that today’s police division does not provide the necessary prerequisites for developing specialist functions and capabilities to manage major and serious incidents adequately. In particular, the background to the proposal to reduce the number of local services is that, according to the sample, the current structure does not provide sufficiently effective local police or enough public services locally. Among other things, the selection points to: that many small places of employment with few staff, related to tasks other than core tasks, do not provide effective prevention, good response or effective crime prevention. Many have supported the selection of the need for fewer police districts. Moreover, the consultation of the police analysis shows that there are widely different views on the proposals, both on how many police districts we should have and on whether changes should be made to the local structure. I focus on building a solid foundation for the follow-up of the police analysis and aim to get to the Stortinget with the matter in an appropriate way. In the meantime, until any changes have been adopted and brought into force, the police must, of course, follow the established legislation with regard to changes. I will not rule out that there may be grounds for adjustments in local structures even before decisions on police structures are taken in the Grand Duchy, but the point is that in this context changes must be made in accordance with the legislation. I have made concrete, formal decisions in the Council of State on the merger of the offices of local officials also recently. The most recent happened in February this year, when Stokke and Tjøme Länsmannskontoren and Tønsberg police station were merged. I am aware that the content of the regional schemes has been discussed in a number of places, including: the regional arrangements in Sogn and Fjordane, Sunnmøre, Nord-Trøndelag and Trom police districts. In some places it has been added to a neighbour to operate a lumbar spine office pending a regional scheme and definition of tasks, including: one in Sunnmøre Police District has been waiting to announce the position of locals in Herøy and Sande and Ørskog. The Directorate of Police has informed the Department that it is now aiming to publish the positions of local civil servants during the spring of 2014. Within each police district, the chief of police is responsible for allocating resources in a way that best meets the needs of the population for police services. In other words, resources must be available where they are most needed. However, the police districts cannot reduce the staffing of each county office to such an extent that the office can no longer fulfil the functions required by the law. En route in conversion processes, one may, for shorter periods, allow one lenner to control two lenner districts. In the past, the Ministry has shown in a different context that the Police Directorate assumes that it will be acceptable within a period of approximately one year. Six months. I want to work to have a good neighbourhood police force that will cover the need for police services throughout the country, but the road to a good neighbourhood police force is not necessarily in keeping all parts of today's structure. The central thing must be what the police deliver. I look forward to good discussions on this in the follow-up to the police analysis. In the meantime, the police shall respect the restrictions laid down in law and order. I will ensure that the police districts receive in a short time an up-to-date overview of the provisions applicable to the establishment of regional schemes and any merger of county offices and police stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3840	I thank you for your input from the Council of State. A lot of it was actually not so bad either. I am pleased to announce that the laws will be followed and that the office will not be emptied. Of course, I am that each police officer should have the freedom to influence how he wants his resources in his police district to be managed as well as possible. But I am a strong opponent of circumvention of the law, and I am also not least occupied with the fact that the Storting should have the opportunity to really influence when we get the police reform up afterwards. Police have many important tasks – not just the pure police operations – and it should not be underestimated. The gentleman acts as a reputator, hires some types of discretion and has other important administrative tasks, and these tasks must not be overly centralised. This way of getting in touch with the police creates trust, not least for some of our new countrymen who come from countries where trust in the police for many good reasons is not high. The division of tasks, structure and preparedness must not become debates where one just thinks economics, but one must also look at history and what has made us, after all, have a well-driving police force today, and a police force throughout the country. The choice of the future police will be made in this room — not regional, based on short-term economic gains. And then we've reworked the "Near Police." ‘Neighboring’ is not just a good word, it should be filled in with content. I think it's going to be so that the center part separates layers. The party of progress in the debate that will come when it comes to what the word ‘near-police’ is, what ‘close-police’ is for something. There are quite powerful forces that think that having a police force on wheels, a police force that can come relatively quickly when something happens, is enough that it can be called ‘near police’. I'm busy with the police who also have a face. A faceless police behind dark roads, which can be defined as both an intrusion police and an expression police, is not necessarily the police who create confidence in the building, and which – not least – allows young people to call a perp officer in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3855	I think it's important to distinguish between a janitor's office and what's the local neighbourhood police force, because there's not much prevention activity or response quality in a janitor's office that's up three days a week from 0 p.m. 8 to 8 o'clock. 16th@item: inlistbox I think it's important not to think that you have a much better close-up offer around Norway today than what we actually have. I am enough of the opinion that very many people believe they have a better police offer than the police can actually deliver. And it also has a price in today's structure when you're going to balance it between having faces at the janitor's office on one side and having a call-out capacity to come when people really are in need. This balance, I think, is important if we are to address the police analysis, because this will have a cost side, either on the one hand or on the other. Rationality within the framework to which the police must deal in any case should be the main focus of this hall when we work on the police analysis, so that we can get the police that we can be proud of everywhere, and set the requirements that we believe are also relevant for close police. I think it's dangerous if we romanticize too much the old-fashioned gentleman, who was always everywhere. We have a different type of police force today than we had 30 years ago – at good and bad. There's also a perspective that you have to bring with you when you're discussing what the local police are going to be in the future. I want to stress that the police are not just about visible presence. The police have three major tasks. They shall carry out preventive activities. It is essential that one has the necessary local involvement and competence to carry out active and effective prevention activities locally. They shall conduct an effective and good investigation. I am absolutely convinced that in the future we will see a police force that will be able to investigate much more quickly at the scene of the crime, by having an ICT development programme and an ICT development programme that will provide the police with completely different and new opportunities. At the same time, they have to have robustness enough to take the big, difficult things. Crime is getting more complicated. There are several contexts, and one has to have robust professional environments, which can also handle it. And we need to make sure we're ready. We must succeed in all three areas in order to succeed in a police reform. I am really happy to cooperate with both the Center Party and the other parties in the Stortinget on how we want the police of the future to be. I only have one hope – one wish. It's that it's not going to be a political game, but a political process that ensures us the police of the future in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3866	Thank you to the interpellant for putting this matter on the agenda in Stortinget. I feel that the interpellation expresses impatience. It also does the feedback I have received from policemen with whom I have spoken. We are in an important time for the police, the county council and non-governmental organisations working together in the area of security and preparedness. Police are an important supporter of our democracy. That my neighbour, Mette, without reservation calls the police immediately when she discovers that the car has been stolen, or that my granddaughter, with the greatest of course, says that the police are good, is an expression of the confidence and expectations we have for the police who manage our common moral values, expressed in our law. Police shall manage these values, including by preventing and cooperating with non-police bodies. The Labour Party members of the Judicial Committee are currently on the police district tour. We have made it our goal to visit all the police districts before Easter and talk to management, trust-elected and our political colleagues in the municipalities. It's, and it's been, an exciting and useful journey. Police analysis points to two main issues. It is that the tasks are comprehensive – the number of civilian tasks has increased and is more clearly regulated than the core tasks – and that the structure prevents better police services from being provided. The feedback I have received in my meetings is among other things. they are now waiting for answers. Many will get started, and they are waiting for the necessary clarifications. I would also like to say that the general picture is that the ones I have met are largely positive about changes. And they're concerned with the professional quality. For me and the Working Party, quality and proximity are important. Quality is about tasks and content, management and culture. Should the police issue passports and operate outsourcing? Should we create a more pure police force, where the civil tasks are fewer? How strong should the central governance be? What are the responsibilities and tasks of each police officer? Interactions within a district must be good, regardless of size. The same needs to be true of inter-departmental interactions, regardless of size. We also have a challenge in terms of interaction between different agencies. Jenny Klinge commented: Norway is diverse and has natural geographical and weather challenges, which must be taken into account when finding a good solution. The Councils referred to some examples. Among other things in Agder, there was some grip, in line with what the Council of State was about. Both trust leaders and management told us that they were largely satisfied with the organisation they had, and that it also triggered – as the Council of State said – better quality in many areas of the region. We are concerned that the organisation should be a travel agency around the tasks that the police are supposed to do. I agree with the inter-pellant that it is important for the government to come to the Stortinget as soon as possible with concrete proposals for a solution. Solutions shall not be established across political leadership. Therefore, a broad political majority should be quickly involved in what Police Norway should look like. The Labour Party will be a positive driver of that work, and we would like to contribute to the good play of the reform. The minority government has to the Storing to get a majority. The signals the Minister has given in the past – and as he has repeated here in the Chamber today – that he wants a broad consensus on the solution of this task, we are very pleased with. The Labour Party will have an accessible police force, a police force that quickly solves crime, who investigates with high credibility and with a high degree of achievement, who works well with each other internally and with other agencies, and who also provides security for everyone through good preparedness. Mette, the neighbor, should still be able to call the police as soon as the car disappears, and experienced good help and rapid clarification. The residents of Hammerfest shall be assured that, when accidents occur on a broad scale and in almost impracticable distance in nature, police and rescue units have the competence, equipment and resources to perform well-managed rescue operations. My granddaughter, Magnus at five, should still be able to say that the police are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3894	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising this issue, which is not just a single judicial committee, but a large part of the political environment is concerned with: social security and secure communities. I share the positive commitment of the interpellant to facilitating it from the political point of view and from the Biggest side. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good response, a balanced response, which gives a great deal of room for action to deal with this matter politically in the Stortinget, a matter on which we are all committed to finding good solutions. There is no fasitivity given here. It has to be very strongly underlined from the Right. The time and process will show what answers we get, and what results the police reform gives us. But I would particularly like to point out three aspects of the development that make it possible for us to be open to change. Firstly, since the last police reform in 2000, society has changed and crime has changed as a result. Crime has become more mobile in these 14 years, crime has become more organised in these years, and not least – only in recent years – it has, to a large extent, become more digital as well. It requires new solutions because yesterday's answer is not necessarily tomorrow's solution. The other relationship I want to point out that makes us in the right open to look at positive, good and balanced changes is that the population has also changed over these 14 years. We see that by just analysing the prisoner population, the prisoners in Norwegian prisons. One third of prisoners today are non-residents, and – not only that – almost half of those in custody are non-residents. There is a clear picture in itself that the population has changed since the last reform. The third thing I want to point out is two reports that have made a lot of attention, and with good reason. One is the Gjørv Commission's report, and the other is the police analysis, which forms the basis and starting point for the interpellation. Both reports show that there are major weaknesses in the organisation of Norwegian police, and that Norwegian police are not organised to meet tomorrow's crime. It makes it a common political responsibility to facilitate wise action today to make tomorrow's society even safer. I would also like to say that it is a common political responsibility that we go through this process politically in such a way that we do not end up with a status quo, that despite all the documented need for change, we do nothing at all. Then I believe that we have politically failed to facilitate the conditions for tomorrow's safe community. I would like to underline once again: the pheasant is not given from any party, not from the Right and I have not heard it from any other parties either. This process must enter into with an open mind and a common desire to create security. I notice with great interest and much joy the representative Henriksen's posts, who is signalling a cooperation line from the Workers' Party. It wants the Right to contribute and facilitate from our side as well. Close-up is important, increased local police force is important, more crime prevention work locally is important. I definitely believe that we can do that, and I think that the result will be even better if the political majority is as much as possible here on the Stortinget – I hope, in fact, in a unanimous way. It means that there is a political weight behind this, that this will not be a political battlefield for every possible election campaign. It's losing security.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3907	I would like to thank the interpellant for a good interpellance and for putting an important theme on the agenda. This is a current issue across the country. I have marveled at the way some police districts bypass the law and in reality deplete the local County Länsmannskontoret. For those of us who come from district municipalities, this is worrying, and it goes beyond the sense of security for the inhabitants. We as politicians in the National Assembly cannot accept the closure of the Länsmannskontoret. The size set a framework for the police action, and we also have control over how they will evolve by laying down a framework for changes in the structure of the county. In Süd-Trøndelag, this carnage has been going on for many years. This is something I have worked against as a local politician until I got to Stortinget in 2011, and the situation is not better today either. I would like to mention some examples from my own county, where the police chief has chosen to co-locate the Länsmannskontoret – in my opinion far beyond his mandate, and under strong protests from the local politicians. I can mention the municipalities of Frøya, Holtålen and Rennebu as examples. The pier has been tried to co-locate with Røros. The lease agreement at the Länsmannskontoret was even terminated, but after strong protests from local politicians, they now have the office in place, the police sign still hangs on the door, and there is a sign of opening hours. But it is only rare and a joyous surprise that there are people in the office when a knocker knocks on the door. The most common thing is that during the opening hours there is a note saying ‘We are not present today, if necessary call Røros Länsmannskontoret’. They pay rent, they pay their fixed costs, but there are no resources left in the payroll office. This is particularly frustrating when you have a clear wording in the police law on how to proceed if you choose to drop a lumbar spine. Local democracy is set aside, and district municipalities are depleted for resources. Other places they have chosen not to post new posts at the Länsmannskontoret. With such an attitude, the office's function is weakened, and as the representative Klinge repeated from the police directorate's point of view, it is not acceptable to deplete the labour office by moving resources around to such an extent that there is no staff at all in the offices, and they are unable to fulfil their statutory duties. It was not until more rapporteurs from Sør-Trøndelag had to contact the department and the police district were clearly informed that more than six months of stay in office was unacceptable and that the position at Fröya, for example, had to be announced. was published. On Fröya we had a big forest fire here not long ago, and the local politicians say it was essential for things to go so well, that there were local emergency facilities in place, people with local knowledge, who knew what to do. It was absolutely essential that it did not go much worse than it did. Another moment we've been through is the security and emergency system. In the past, we had local security guards, where employees at the offices were responsible for manning them. Now they have agreements that cover too large districts, and they have cops on wheels. This means that many citizens do not have access to police assistance in case of acute needs. Even if they're in police cars, it doesn't help much if they're two hours away. I hope that when we discuss the police reform, it will be a real discussion, so that the individual police districts now do not advance the reform and undermine the process of political treatment. The Council of State was concerned that the most important thing was that the police could carry out the central tasks. Yes, it is important, but it is also important where they can deliver them and when they can deliver them. As the situation is today, the civilians have to do police duties. We had a situation in my district where there was someone who threatened with killing. One calls the police and they say yes, we're in place in two and a half hours. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] Then it is not important that they are on wheels, but it is important that they are available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3924	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3927	Interpellation raises an important issue – not about the content of the police of the future, not about the structure of the police of the future, but about the ability of the Storting and the government on a free basis to actually discuss the structure of the police of the future. Who is it that is really going to decide what structure we're going to have on the police, what fire service we're going to have, and what 110 centers we're going to have? How these agencies will organise themselves in the future is a major and important issue of society, and it is an important political issue that should be debated and adopted on a free basis in government and magnificence. For this reason, it is also encouraging to see police officers around the country either take the initiative of so-called co-location or for the real closure of LEN's offices long before government and corruption have had the opportunity to discuss the police analysis. It is also unforeseeable that police officers have used this as a negotiating card and press release to municipalities without formally doing so and without a political debate on the future structure in its context. It's unfortunate, and we know this is happening. There have been several examples of this today, and I can also add examples from my own country: Verran, Meråker and Inderoy. We have also seen the same position at the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, which has also wanted to go a little way ahead of what is the political treatment of social and emergency preparedness. With regard to the 110 centres, one has now decided wisely to wait for a decision to be taken on this pending a decision on the number of police districts. Something else would also be strange. Then we could have a situation where we either adopted a structure for the 110-centrals that did not correlate with the police of the future, or one would have tied up the organisation of the future police before it was politically discussed in the Stortinget. It would indeed have been a ‘political game’ to use the Council of State’s own words. I have no doubt that there are going to be different approaches and different opinions about future police, fire services and emergency services. It's real enough. But the point of the interpellation is that there are the parties here in the hall that are going to determine that structure, not a directorate, not the police officers. We are the ones responsible to our voters, and we are the ones who should make decisions on matters like this. It is no secret that the Center Party does not want to go as far as the police analysis and fire study wants in terms of centralising these tasks. But it's not the theme today. That's what we want to be able to get back to in full width. I want to mention that soon we have been discussing police reforms for 20 years. The first police reform was adopted in this Chamber in 1995. Then, as it is today, it was also an objective that one should have a more operational police force, a more visible police force, and that it should be an effective police force. So do you have to ask yourself if one really achieved it in the first ten years of the first police reform? The evaluation following that reform showed at least a rather mixed result. 70 pst. after the evaluation carried out in 2004–2005, the staff considered that the reform had been totally or partially unsuccessful. Both employees and partners considered that the use of resources in prevention was reduced. People thought the police had become less visible after the reform than it was before the reform. It's going to be interesting to bring along the entire history of police reform. But what matters to us today is the ability to have a free and real discussion in government and big business around this, and also to see in context what one has of material after 2011, both the police analysis, the fire study and also the 110-centrals. I think it is positive that the Council of State says that he wants a solid foundation, and that he wants to come back with proposals for the Storting. I also think it is positive that it is made clear that one should not be able to empty a loner's office for functions to such an extent that it constitutes a closure. The centre party looks forward to a real and good debate on the content of the future structure for both police and other key societal preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3948	The representative Arnstad made a good point of what is the main theme of the interpellation, how important it is with a political process that is not destroyed by the fact that there is too much change in the department while we are waiting for this political treatment. But then it's also directly linked to the Central Party's view of what the police will be in the future. I appreciate the good debate that has been on the important issue of the police. The Minister of Justice wouldn't romanticize the old-fashioned gentleman who was always everywhere. No, of course, there have been changes both in society and in the state, and not least in the work environment laws, which have given us another type of police. But it's about taking care of what's good and changing what needs to change. I don't think we can overestimate the value and position of the loner. With the cross-policy objectives of increasing the number of police officers to two per thousand inhabitants by 2020, there is a possibility of both strengthening the local police and maintaining many relief services that can be built on and made even stronger, while ensuring a good security and patrol service. In the political process of the case, it will be important that now, pending what we're going to find out about how to do the police well in the future, it's not going to shut down so many LEN's offices that we lose the ability to actually strengthen the police in the districts. The Minister of Justice himself said that localisation and competence are necessary. It may say itself, but it has to say bad. It's about child protection, the schools and health services, and all these local actors who, in good interaction with the police, have a far greater chance of preventing problems. Having a local connection actually requires that one does not behave ten miles away. It applies to both the office and those added there. It is clear that no one is building houses and betting on future statements in one place if one knows that there will be a very long journey. It's a dimension of it. I thank you for your answer – it was mostly a good answer. The most important thing was to get the clarification that has now been given, that there should be no change without the law being followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3962	Thank you for your words, and thank you for a very good debate. I want to comment on some of the recordings that have been made. I see the representative Henriksen has gone, but I think her contribution was very much in relation to the process we are now going into in terms of police analysis, how important it is to have a political anchoring as wide as possible. Now, the representative, Werp, had a very strong ambition that you would manage to get this through a unanimous expansion. It's a very good ambition, but it requires that we all meet with each other with openness, and that we all have the goal of getting a police for the future that is actually a police that we can be even more proud of than what we are today. Then I think the representative, Mr. Greni, had a very good post, which illustrated the problem, namely that today's structure does not work optimally. When you have to wait two and a half hours for a police patrol when you are threatened with life, it says something about the structure not working properly today. It also shows the importance of having a neat approach to what kind of police services people actually think they have today in relation to what they actually have. It is also a clarification of expectations that I think we should be very clear in the discussion that is now coming – be honest about what kind of services we can provide, what kind of services are not being provided today, and what we want to be delivered in the future. Then I appreciate the support for my decision that the 110-centrals and their restructuring have to wait for the police analysis. I fully agree with the representative Arnstad that it would be a completely meaningless situation if we were now to have a major reorganisation and restructuring of the 110 centres without taking into account what the police structure is like. We also have a fire study which is now being treated in the department, which also needs to be seen more closely in connection with the work done in the police analysis. It is also true that it is not the police analysis that is the main theme of the interpellation. I think the interpellant actually summed this up pretty well. She said that we should take care of what is good – and that is important. We must not have a reform for the sake of reform. The criticism of the previous police reform was quite strong, as the representative Arnstad pointed out. If that reform had been done better, we may not have had the discussion that we have right now. The previous government has provided a good basis for the job to be done in the future, by putting the police analysis committee down. The Police Analysis Committee has provided a good basis for discussion, and it is up to us to see whether we can find the solutions that we believe most people are able to reach – as widely as possible politically. Then I would like to stress – also from this pulpit – that although some people are trying to represent this as a centralisation reform, that is the opposite. It is a decentralisation reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3981	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e3997	Children and young people are the most valuable things we have in our society. And the biggest responsibility we have as politicians is to ensure good growth conditions for children and young people. But unfortunately, we know too well that it's not like that for everyone growing up in Norway. Many children and young people are subjected to violence and abuse. It's hard to hear and read about every single story. The Christoffer case is a story that is deep in all of us, and we politicians have obligations to do more to avoid such events. Before going on to the interpellation, I would therefore like to stress the importance of prevention. We must and we can prevent violence and abuse against children better than we do today! But let me also start by stressing that, fortunately, there is a lot of good work done in Norway, within the school community, health care, child welfare and the police. Not least, the State Children's House is doing a good job. For the Christian People's Party it has been important to have more children's houses. But we must not just introduce new orphanages. We also need to put them in the best possible position to do their job in the best possible way. That is why we need to build on the good work done by many institutions and social bodies, while at the same time addressing the challenges we face. I have been following the debate on children who are being subjected to violence or abuse for several years now. Unfortunately, there is a repetition every year at this time that, when the annual reports from the children’s homes arrive, they show that the police spend too much time before children who have been subjected to violence and abuse or have witnessed them are interrogated. Today's legislation requires that the child's hearing be conducted within 14 days of notification. Unfortunately, the rule today is that this deadline is broken rather than kept. The average waiting time is five to six times longer than the deadline. It's serious, it weakens legal certainty, and we also know that children can harm it. I just met a woman who was exposed to a rape that the son witnessed. It took three months for the woman to be questioned, and six months before the son was questioned. In addition, the mother was recommended not to talk to her son about the event, because it could affect his explanation – although we know that it is important for the children to be able to talk about such events in order to get on with it. It was a terrible thing the police didn't do a good enough job. But this is just one of many examples. And we can't have it like that! But that's exactly what we've said every year, and now I and the Christian People's Party expect the new government to act. For these time limits, one of the greatest threats to the legal certainty of children is today. That's why I've set up four areas I have expectations of: The first is better capacity and significantly shorter waiting times; the second is that the new regulation comes into place; the third is that we make national guidelines for children's homes, and the fourth is that we make the medical examinations mandatory. I started talking about waiting time, and I would say a little bit more about capacity. Since the establishment of the first children's home in Bergen, children's homes themselves have done an incredibly good job of facilitating court hearings and medical examinations. At the end of 2012, half of all court hearings were conducted in children’s homes. The new regulation, to which I will come back more, proposes that the general rule should be that the hearings should be conducted at a children's home, but if the consideration of the person to be questioned so requires, the hearing may be conducted elsewhere. The Christian People's Party agrees. In order to strengthen the legal certainty of children, we need to exploit and build on the competences acquired by children’s homes. However, if all child questioning is to be conducted in children's homes, we politicians must be willing to ensure all access to children's homes and in the longer term assess the need for more new children's homes. We also know that more and more people report abuse, and children’s homes report a strong increase in the number of cases. Oslo has said 40 pst. increase, Stavanger reports about approx. The same just this year. This means that it is important that the appropriations for children’s homes are increased. So to the regulation: in 2010, the previous government set up a working group to review the legislation on child questioning and observation and mental retardation. The working group presented its report in October 2012. One of the recommendations of the working group included: a new rule for the hearing of particularly vulnerable persons. The working group's report has been at the hearing, but it has been silent since April 2013, and the children's houses are waiting impatiently for the new regulation to come. I therefore hope that the Minister of Justice will now take action and introduce the new rule on hearings for particularly vulnerable persons. I have been in contact with several children's houses, and what I get feedback about is that they want the prescription to be put in place. An important point on which a change is proposed is who will conduct the hearings. The regulation proposes that the hearing be conducted by a police interviewer who has completed special training in judicial hearings at the Police College. Some have suggested that judges other than the police may be questioned in order to bring down the waiting time for the hearings. I would like to warn you strongly against this, which includes, among other things: The state children's house in Oslo does. It is absolutely central that there is a police interviewer with competence in questioning, because it is those who have competence in how such a hearing should be conducted. The hearing has both an investigative and a proven side. The questioning of children presents special challenges, and we therefore need to facilitate their being done in the best possible way to ensure the legal certainty of children. So to national guidelines: Today, there are quite different practices with regard to the use of children’s homes. It is important that we are clear on what kind of offers young people should be entitled to, and then we need to learn from those who get good results. One of the examples is the children's home in Tromsø. Last year, they arrived at a waiting time of 22 days from notification to judgment. So what's behind the good results from Troms? There is good cooperation between children's homes, investigations and prosecutions, as well as a police officer who believes this to be important and who is asking for results. In 2011, they set up a work committee to look at how they could reduce waiting times. They came up with the following: It was liability powdering. There was no need for clarity between the investigator and the prosecution level in who was responsible for the conduct of a judicial hearing by the deadline. Investigating issues of violence and abuse against children was not a high priority. There were no good enough procedures for recording cases and good enough coordination of investigations. In Trom’s police district, they therefore have a system of 100 p.m. judicial hearing coordinator. position. The coordinator shall take practical steps in all judicial hearings. This system has spread to several police districts, and the Christian People's Party therefore believes that this should be mandatory in all police districts. The system shall ensure that no more than three working days shall elapse from the time the case is registered with the police until the hearing is scheduled. But: This depends on a management that will give priority to these issues. Let's get national guidelines, and let's learn from Trom's police district. The legal certainty of children must be given higher priority! So for medical examination: in all eight out of ten court hearings, children are not offered a forensic examination. Why is that critical? The medical examination reveals medical findings that can be related to the case in question – in other words, evidence can be lost. The study also reveals things that the child often does not remember or would like to tell about in an interview, and the study can therefore lead to that we are told about an infringement. In a discussion post in the Evening Post on 2 March, the Children’s Ombudsman, the police chief in Tromsø and the director of the Court administration wrote that the police in Troms have received several rejections from the hospital when they have asked for forensic examinations. Kripos investigators must also have experienced that it has been impossible to have a medically examined child despite the suspicion of serious sexual assault. It's unsustainable! In the worst case, if such studies do not take place, this could lead to children who have been subjected to an attack being not believed and sent back to a potential attacker. Several children’s homes also say that they have to pay to have medical examinations carried out at the children’s homes. That should be unnecessary. Instead, health professionals should be stuck in children’s homes and ensure that all children who tell about strokes or violence must be quickly guaranteed medical examination. Then we also have to ensure that it is trained enough, so that we have competent personnel. 10 minutes is too long, but there are many more things I should have touched. But I challenge my colleagues in the Chamber here to contribute to the work of strengthening children and the legal certainty of young people, and I challenge the Council of State to: How will he ensure that children who are subjected to violence and sexual assault are interrogated within the legal deadline? And will he ensure a new regulation and national guidelines for children's homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4055	I was almost tempted to answer yes and be done with it, but I do not, for it is a very important and serious matter that the representative Ropstad addresses in the interpellation. Preventing and combating violence and sexual abuse against children is a priority area of government. I very much appreciate the representative's commitment, and that this is now going to be discussed quite widely in this interview debate. Violence and sexual assault are serious crimes that can have serious and long-lasting consequences for vulnerable children. It is therefore important that both police and relief services assist vulnerable children and their caregivers in a good manner as soon as possible. Many child questionings are being conducted today at one of the ten children’s homes in the country. The state’s children’s home is established to improve the care of children and young people under the age of 16 and adults with developmental disabilities who are suspected of being subjected to violence and sexual assault. The case must have been reported to the police. The main objective of the establishment of children’s housing is to strengthen the legal certainty of the child. An evaluation of children’s homes in 2012 shows that the model of children’s housing leads to better care and greater security in a very difficult situation. The children thus have better conditions to tell about their experiences during the court hearing. Despite good experience with children’s homes, the waiting time for a court hearing is in many cases too long. Under Section 239 of the Criminal Procedures Act and Section 4 of the Rules of Procedure, children are to be interrogated no later than two weeks after the event has been notified. In practice, this deadline is often broken. For all children’s homes as a whole, the average waiting time from the review to the interview was 51 days in 2013, the waiting time for sexual assaults was 42 days and for violence was 60 days. The ability and capacity of children to remember and the need to complete the case speak for the rapid implementation of the hearings. I want to add that for adult people in a hectic working life, 40–50 days may not be that long, but for a small child 40–50 days is incredibly long. There may be several reasons why the waiting time for a hearing is long. The capacity of the police is a central factor. The number of family violence cases reported has also increased considerably in recent years. At the same time, the number of interrogators may be too low, and those able to conduct interrogations are often also used for other tasks. Furthermore, it is a challenge to address interrogations involving many actors. The fact that child abuse cases are perceived as very demanding for investigators also contributes to very few working on such cases over time. Lack of continuity and high permeability are, unfortunately, the situation in many police districts. The complexity of infringement cases also contributes to the length of the time taken to deal with them. Rules on court hearing and observation govern the questioning of children, mentally retarded persons and other particularly vulnerable persons who are offended or testify to criminal proceedings. Judicial hearings are some form of evidence for use in the main proceedings, so that children do not witness directly in court. The hearings are at the same time part of the investigation. The hearings are conducted by a police investigator led by a judge. In 2010, a Working Party of the Ministry of Justice and Defence was appointed to investigate and propose changes to the legislation on child questioning, mental retardation and other particularly vulnerable persons, known as the Säverud Committee. The working group would, among other things: consider the role and contribution of the Judge in the hearings, the rights of the addressees and the relationship with the EMC, and place a fundamental emphasis on what would be best for the child in his or her judgements. The aim was to establish clear national legislation to facilitate good consultation and the practical and early implementation of the hearings. The report was handed over to the Ministry on 16 October 2012. The committee proposed changes to the Criminal Procedures Act, the Vergemålsgesetz and the Public Prosecutor’s Guide and a whole new regulation on interrogation. Among other things, proposed that the police be given responsibility for the hearings, so as to reduce the number of actors and to facilitate rapid consultation. The sample also proposed that the use of children’s homes be made primarily compulsory and that the age limit for inclusion in the scheme be reduced from 16 years to 15 years. The committee will equate family and moral issues with a new model of questioning and proposes to extend the right to appoint an aid lawyer. The report also proposes several amendments to clarify the regulatory framework and to facilitate the implementation of the hearings. The Severud report was sent at the hearing on 16 April 2013. The Ministry received 46 consultation opinions with comments, several of which were critical of the proposals in the report. Particular attention was paid to the fact that the working group had not discussed some fundamental legal issues sufficiently. The main objections were that the proposals had not been sufficiently assessed against the best and international law of the child in this area. It was also pointed out that the mental retardation situation had not been properly assessed either. Some also pointed out that the consultation model proposed by the working group may be problematic with regard to the rights of the target group under the EMC. The ministry is now following up — and may have done so for too long — the recordings from the hearing and considering whether additional information needs to be collected. It's a work that's prioritised in the future. I do not overlook the fact that this work may result in proposals that deviate so far from the proposals in the report that a new consultation should be carried out. In that case, I will return to Stortinget with this in an appropriate form as soon as possible. In parallel with the follow-up to the Säverud report, a working group has been set up to develop common guidelines for the future operation of children’s housing and to assess the need for supervision. This is done to ensure a coherent and coherent practice and treatment in children’s homes. The working group shall have completed its work during the spring of 2014. However, I would like to stress that a new court hearing regulation and common guidelines for the State Children's House will not only solve the problems of long waiting. One of the main challenges is, as mentioned, capacity challenges in the police. A number of measures have already been taken, and we are continually considering further measures. Among other things, I have asked for a full overview of the number of police officers with this investigative competence. Education capacity has increased significantly, from 18 to 48, which means that more people are trained within this group. At the same time, we know that we have a kind of reserve in some police officers and women who have the skills but do other kinds of work. I think it's important that we now do some hard work to get the waiting time down to an acceptable level, and then the solutions in the longer term will be important to keep the deadlines to a greater extent than today. In order to get a real strengthening of the judicial hearing capacity in the police, we provide good training capacity. Police officers must also ensure that the training places at the Police College are filled up. The police units that have these issues need to be strengthened and made more robust, so that notifications can be made as soon as possible. Police districts are on commission from the Police Directorate to establish several assault teams locally. This will strengthen the priority of work on these kinds of issues. Some police districts have already implemented measures that point in the right direction, such as: Oslo Police Station, in cooperation with Oslo District Court, has launched new procedures for the denunciation of judicial hearings. The new procedures involve those responsible for the prosecution and investigation of a case, who are also responsible for the screening, coordination and quality follow-up of investigations in the case. In addition, a separate judicial hearing office has been set up in family violence cases at the Stovner Police Station. Oslo District Court has also changed the routines, by creating a new plan for this kind of thing. A more firm approach to the appointment of judges may reduce the time spent. Oslo police districts have also used wage resources, B-table, to motivate police officers and women to take longer to work on these kinds of issues. Experience with these measures so far seems promising. The waiting time at Oslo Police District has fallen considerably. There may be reason to consider whether both Oslo and elsewhere, where a number of measures have been taken, can form patterns for the rest of the country. Finally, I would like to stress that despite the difficulties and challenges encountered in the fight against abuse and violence against children, children's homes make a significant, positive effort for these vulnerable children. This applies not only to the hearings but also to the follow-up of the children and the support and assistance of their relatives. We're going to continue this positive work. I would also like to make it clear that there has been an important prerequisite for the optimal functioning of children's homes, that there is sufficient medical expertise with the necessary specialisation available in children's homes. It's a challenge for several of the children's homes. It is also a challenge because these are burdensome issues to work with, including for the medical profession. However, it is important that that competence is ensured. Last night I had a meeting with the Minister of Health and Care about this particular issue to ensure that we can find a model that will ensure that this competence is guaranteed for use in children's homes in the future. It's about resource use, but it's also about skills enhancement and competence development, because it's a very special kind of medical competence you need when you're going to do the research that's done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4099	Thanks for a good answer with a clear commitment – and also speedy. I think that's important. I have also previously recorded several reports from the Minister of Justice, where he has addressed exactly what he was talking about in the post. I'm very happy about that. What I think can become important for the way forward is precisely the focus on the multidisciplinary, which the Minister of Justice and the Government should be commended for having addressed them on several occasions. The Minister of Justice concluded that, for example: medical examinations are precisely the ability to ensure sufficient competence, sufficient personnel to carry out the medical examinations, essential, and then a job in the field of health. I also think that is an important point. In connection with that, I just want to ask you a question. It may seem that children or those kinds of things are not high enough priority or exciting enough to work with. If you look at priorities in health, police and safe in other sectors, it may at least seem that it is not what is given the highest priority – or what one chooses the highest up. I also want to link some comments to the number, because there are several reviews, especially more reviews of family violence. It is tragic on the one hand, while it is good that they come. At the same time, I would say that it is too few. If you look at the different children's houses, you see that the number varies a lot. I visited the children's home in Kristiansand, and they could tell that when you look at the number of criminal cases, crime, they know that there should have been many more from some municipalities. That's where I think child protection has an important job to do. They said about one municipality that child protection contacted once there was a suspicion of violence, of a stroke, and then one case went on and reported. So to my four important points. When it comes to waiting time, I think the job we do in the police field is crucial. I appreciate the signals from the Minister of Justice. The work done in Oslo and in other police districts, and also by the coordinator in Troms, whom I was in for, only shows some of what can be done. But as it was emphasized very clearly: it had so much to do with the police chief, the commitment, the management who pressed for this to be a high priority. Then I am also pleased with what the Minister of Justice said about the regulation. To the extent I meet changes in it, but I also think it is important that one can get some of the grips that are notified. Among other things, we believe that taking out the judges will be completely curative. The hearings may be conducted by a police interviewer with special competence, and then used as evidence in the court later on. That's how we might avoid spending time getting the judges into the hearings. As far as the guidelines are concerned, I understand that the work is going on and that it can be done. I think that we can work in a cross-political and interdisciplinary way about it, could be involved in setting the right focus that it needs, for hopefully to get the changes that we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4114	Yes, the commitment is strong, and I think it's for a group of people who are the weakest of the weakest. The situation they are experiencing today is simply not acceptable. It is a political responsibility to contribute to the acceptability of the situation with regard to the use of children’s housing. Then, of course, it is important that we also work widely in other tracks, not least in terms of prevention and awareness-raising activities. Ensuring that child protection is active, that schools follow closely, are active and use their ability to contribute to these types of sentences is crucial for the children exposed to it. Then it's also our duty as society to make sure that when those steps are taken, when society becomes aware of this, we should really be on the supply side to safeguard the interests of children, even in a difficult interrogation position. I want to touch a little bit of what the interpellant had to do with children and priority. I'm not quite sure what might appear to be a down-priority – perhaps within health and perhaps within the police – actually is. On the contrary, I have the impression that this is a very high priority. But at the same time, these are some of the most difficult things you as a human being – as a police officer, as a doctor – can work with. This is the most stressful thing to do over time. I have to say I'm impressed by all those who work hard on this for a long time, not least within the children's housing systems, with the pressures and stresses it gives. If you're going to follow the police trail, it's a little bit of the challenge that many of those who have this hearing skills that children's homes depend on are used for some other tasks in the police, because they're attractive, and because they have better skills, but also because I think the wear of that kind of work is pretty big. Then, as the interpellant was also inside, I'm very convinced that the leadership focus is absolutely central, completely independent of whether it's a wear or not. I think that the wear on everyone is less if you have a leadership focus, and you know that you have management support, that you get that structure, that after-training, and not least the debriefing and follow-up that you need when working on such demanding issues. It's a clear leadership responsibility for every police officer to ensure this. In the short term, I will try to make sure that we can get some sort of effort, which means that we can bring down the waiting time as quickly as possible and then be able to keep the waiting time at a more acceptable level than it is today. We also need to make sure that we get a better statistical base. Today, there is no distinction as to what kind of interrogations are conducted at children’s homes — whether it is a victim or whether it is a witness. It also has a certain importance in the conduct of the hearings. It shall be put in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4127	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for traveling an important interpellant. It's an engagement that the Workers' Party and I share with both the Christian People's Party and the representative Ropstad. I would also like to thank the Council of State for very good articles. When it comes to national guidelines for children's homes, I fully agree that it is very important to get them in place. The work selection that the Stoltenberg II government has put down as a direct follow-up to the Storing Message on elected in close relations will be soon – it was good to get concrete from the Minister of Justice that it will be spring 2014. However, national guidelines themselves do not help to improve the situation when waiting time alone or the medical examinations are involved. But what must be the important goal of those guidelines is that one gets a level playing field for all the kids who use the children's houses. It's very important. The representative refers, inter alia, to: The children's house in Tromsø. I have been there and visited them, I have visited the children's home in Sandefjord, and there is no doubt that we need more equality, and that there are too many variations. Then I accept the invitation from the Christian People's Party to join in. The Labour Party has an own selection against the selection in close relation, which I lead. We have put forward a proposal for a representative in the UK to strengthen children's housing, which is now under consideration in the Justice Committee. We propose more measures, including: that children's homes should be compulsory for all children under the age of 18 and that one should strengthen the capacity. We also say that one should look at the possibility of other occupational groups with e.g. Children’s professional competence may be recognised as a judge-in-chief, as part of the process of reducing waiting times. That's what I'm hearing from the representative Roppstad, saying he's skeptical. I still invite him to join us and discuss it when we are going to have a case in Stortinget. It is, in any case, a challenge today that there is a lack of referees. I have also received feedback that there is not exactly a queue in the police either, to take that education course. And I think that's what the Minister of Justice says about the demanding tasks, and what's in them, of course, is an important perspective in the matter. One important goal also for the Stoltenberg II administration was to bring down waiting times for children's homes. That is why there was also a strong commitment to the training of several police officers and women, who are the ones who are currently executing justice. Two new children's homes were established, but despite this we see that the waiting times are still too long. It is the case today that it is up to the individual judge to decide where a child should be judged. As a result, some children do not have access to children’s homes. The Barnehus evaluation, which was handed over to the Ministry of Justice and Defence in the autumn of 2012, shows that 69 pst. of all the judges who were executed in 2011, were made in children’s homes. We believe that everyone should be done in children's homes, and that is the background to our proposal. The children's environment clearly shows that there is a major lack of social pediatric competence in hospitals and children's homes. In order to provide the best medical examination of children suspected of being — or who have been — sexually assaulted, this special competence is decisive. That's why we think that the social pediatric environment needs to be strengthened, and we want the government to look at how to obtain enough medical expertise to investigate children who have been subjected to abuse. Here, as the representative Ropstad says, is time decisive. So we think there's a need for more, better and broader knowledge and an overview of the violence and abuse that affects children and young people. Therefore, the Stoltenberg II government prioritised carrying out a scope study in our budget for 2014. Unfortunately, the government removed the funds for this measure, even if the need was confirmed by a co-consented judicial committee during the May 2013 Review of the Report. St. 15 for 2012–2013, vald in close relationship. We still believe that there is a need for knowledge and visibility of the election, and that this knowledge and this statistics are necessary to put in place the right actions. That is why we have proposed this again, and we invite the Christian People's Party and also other parties to vote for that proposal. In conclusion, I just want to say that the multidisciplinary perspective is enormously important. For the Labour Party's part, this is a bit of a reason why we sit in a cross-fractional selection here on the Stortinget and try to look at the work of all committees, whether it concerns family and culture, child protection, education, health, etc. I am also very pleased that the Minister of Justice included it in his statement. In the end, I think it's important, what the representative Ropstad says is that there are differences around the country, in the different municipalities. I have actually met spokesmen who do not believe that there are some children in their municipality who are being subjected to violence and violence. For this reason, I hope – and I wish – that all municipalities in the country will implement local action plans against violence in close relations to strengthen the prevention work, on which the interpellant was involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4150	Thank you to the representative, Ropstad, who addresses this important interpellation, and to the Minister for the Answer. I am very pleased that the Right Party government is taking this issue seriously and is making good progress in the treatment of the new regulations for children's homes. Children who are subjected to violence and sexual abuse often experience the absence, lateness or need to be picked up from several different actors. In order to ensure better assistance and treatment for these children, the Norwegian government has set up a nationwide scheme of children’s homes. In children’s homes, interrogations, examinations and treatment take place at the same place. A good competence has subsequently been established among those conducting these hearings, which is important in order to ensure a good process when dealing with the cases in the judicial system. The establishment of children’s homes is at the root of a long-standing concern among professionals and others that children who are subjected to violence and abuse have met a fragmented and unbridled service and that there has been a risk that their children and their families will be subjected to additional stress in a situation that is initially difficult to deal with. The idea behind children’s homes is that children who are subjected to violence and sexual assault should be guaranteed a good and comprehensive assistance and treatment provision co-located in one place. Therefore, children’s homes are equipped for court hearings, medical examination and discussion and therapy. Children’s homes have introduced new methods of interrogation and medical examination that are less burdensome to children. A multidisciplinary team of staff helps the child to avoid being carried around from one instance to another to tell his or her history over and over again. Earlier this year, I attended a conference directed by the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where violence in close relations was discussed. In the course of this seminar, a report was also presented to show that the extent of violence and abuse in close relations has unfortunately not fallen – despite the fact that there has been a great deal of political attention to increase the detection of violence and child abuse. But there has been a significant increase in the number of child questionings in recent years. For example, Oslo Police District, where 94 hearings were conducted in 2009, was conducted, while 208 court hearings were conducted in 2011. In addition, 16 police interviews were conducted at the children's home. Behind these figures we know that there are many vulnerable souls — children who need all the help and support they can get to get through what they have experienced. I want to use Paal-André Grinderud's mention of these little children from a TV interview yesterday as little princes and princesses. Over the years, there have been different practices in the use of children’s homes. The report of the working group, led by the current police officer in Troms, Ole Bredrup Säeverud, was handed over to the Ministry of Justice in October 2012. This is a very comprehensive report in which several elements are reviewed. Through this report, a view has been taken of the contribution and role of the judge, the appointment of the defender and the warning of sighted persons, the observation system, the deadline for the conduct of hearings, equality of morality and other issues of child abuse and mental retardation, who should be present during the hearings, where the hearings should be conducted, the use of remote meeting technology and the printing of the hearing. The report on the new regulations has been out for consultation and, as we have heard earlier today, had a deadline for consultation in April last year. These little princes and our princesses deserve us to get the new regulations in place as soon as possible, and thus achieve the intention of the State Children's House – and not least make the necessary clarifications to ensure that the hearings are conducted within the time limit given by law. To the right, it is an important principle that police interviews are conducted by specialised police investigators, and I therefore believe it is natural that the responsibility for the State Children's House lies with the police in the future. I look forward to the matter being dealt with in Stortinget, and to putting in place the new national regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4178	Let me first commend the interpellant for putting an important issue on the agenda and commend the Minister of Justice, who is now warning action on the issues raised. It is not new that the issues raised in the interpellation are discussed in this room. This has been mentioned a number of times – not least media have written a lot about this for a long, long time. At the same time last year we could read the following in the newspaper, after the media could tell that one was far from keeping the deadline for questioning children: ‘Minister of Justice Grete Faremo is failing children who are victims of violence and sexual assault.’ That's what Child Councilman Anne Lindboe said. She demanded that Grete Faremo turn around and introduce immediate measures. But it was not then a new situation either. Half a year before this opinion by the Children’s Ombudsman, the media had again looked up the situation. Then the Minister of Justice Grete Faremo said: ‘It’s clear we need to get better. We need to improve our skills, ensure access to competent personnel and see if we have properly organised child court hearings." In other words, much has been said, but little has been done. The intentions have certainly been good, but the previous government has not delivered. And when the Workers' Party now, at the end of February, promotes a proposal to strengthen the children's homes, I assume that this is done in recognition of not having done what was necessary when the Minister of Justice and the Government were put in office. The size has been clear that deadlines are to be met, and deadlines are to be imposed with meaning – including when it comes to questioning in these kinds of cases where children are involved. Hearing experts say that the credibility of the child’s explanation is affected if they talk to others before questioning is carried out. Today’s system means that deeply traumatised children have to go for several months before they can talk to someone about an assault. The work of child protection is also made difficult at a crucial stage. We just can't have it that way. I am impressed that the Minister of Justice is now showing the power of action and will do something about the issue. But at the same time – it should just be missing! This is no new issue, as I said at the outset. Unfortunately, it is the rule and not the exception that the 14-day period is not met. Last year – in 2013 – violent children expected an average of 106 days in Hamar, 90 days in Oslo, 78 days in North Trøndelag, 59 days in Stavanger and 52 days in Bergen. The fact that a child who has been subjected to the procedure must wait up to 106 days before it can start to properly process the trauma is simply unacceptable. It is therefore very positive that the Right-wing Party Government has immediately notified measures in this area, including: by increasing the procedural capacity and putting in place competent and qualified interrogators. Nor should we forget that the children's houses are part of the entire legal system. I assume that these important issues will also be considered in the context of the government's informed and comprehensive police reform. A survey conducted in Tromsø in 2010 showed that the problem is mainly police time use. Unfortunately, it is the general experience of children’s homes that police capacity and priorities are the cause of time use, and very rarely investigational considerations. Then we must send a strong signal to the police that child abuse is a high priority. In conclusion, I again want to commend the Christian People's Party to help raise an extremely important issue, and I am very pleased with the thorough and good response of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4208	Violence against children is one of the most serious problems we have today, and a problem that needs to strengthen efforts and cooperation across the sectors. When a violence measurement was carried out in 2012, it was found that during the week of the measurements, more than 900 children were exposed to violence. Jens Grögaard, former head of clinic at the children's department of Ullevål Hospital, made an estimate in collaboration with the Forensic Institute a few years ago. They estimated that between five and ten children die each year from damage caused. In two to five of these cases, the injuries have been caused by caregivers. These numbers shock us all, and show us that it's important that we act quickly to do something for these children. That is why I am pleased that the representative, Mr Ropstad, is raising this debate, and I am also very pleased with the signals made by the Minister of Justice. I am pleased with the proposals that have been put forward here, which can significantly improve the situation of vulnerable children. Putting in place the rule on hearings of particularly vulnerable persons is one important step in ensuring that these children receive the assistance they need. Long waiting for questioning is not only unfortunate for progress in the matter and for gathering evidence. Long wait is very unfortunate and also prevents these children from telling their story early in order to get the opportunity to move on and get started quickly with the help they need. In this area, it is important that action is coordinated and that there is an overall strategy for the prevention and detection of violence against children. In cooperation with our people – the representative Ropstad and the representative of Bollestad, on the Justice Committee and the Health and Welfare Committee respectively – I have submitted an interview on an action plan against violence against children. We need to ensure that there is cooperation across sectors and disciplines – from kindergarten, doctor’s office and school, where the first concerns often arise, to the police and children’s homes, which have the task of investigating. In that case, there is a need for an increase in competence at all stages. We need to ensure that kindergarten workers and teachers know what to look for, and that it is easy for them to contact child protection to discuss their concerns and report when needed. The same applies to the health care system. It is important that doctors and nurses see the difference between bruises that come from falling into the stairs and bruises that may come from blows and violence. At the same time, it is important that health professionals and others who meet these children are safe to talk about violence with both children and parents, so that they can quickly identify the problems and help the child. At the same time, it is absolutely essential that child protection has enough resources to deal with matters at an early stage, so that domestic violence and challenges will not develop and last for a long time, as we unfortunately see is the case in many cases. Of the things that come to the children's houses, very many are already child-restraint cases. Today, child protection is characterised by resource shortages in many places. Things can therefore remain lying for a long time. The role of child protection is to protect children from violence and abuse, and then, as politicians, we have to make sure that they have what they need in order to carry out their task and provide help to all children who need it. The establishment of children’s homes has been an important step towards providing children with legal certainty and facilitating a more judicial process on the premises of children. Children’s homes have a high level of competence for violence and abuse against children and do a very important job in detection, but also follow-up of children and families. It is important that this competence be shared with other bodies that may come into contact with children and families who are exposed to violence. We need child protection, school and health professionals who know what to look for and who are safe in handling the situation. Here I think the children's houses have a lot of knowledge that can be shared, which I know is already done in many places today. To stop violence against children, we need to promise and cooperate – both we politicians in different disciplines, and those who work with this in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4223	I am very pleased when I hear that all the parties and all the representatives share a common view and understanding of both the topic, the problem and the challenges. SV in government, by Inga Marte Thorkildsen, launched strategies to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and youth. What we're talking about here today is part of it, it's an advanced work on it. Even if it's late at night, the big house is lit up by the sun. Too many of these we're talking about, it's night and dark. It's just going through the newspapers and reading the verdicts and the reasons for the convictions in criminal cases. Very often, we see that child-age abuse and violence are the cause of much of the crime we have today. Many people carry with them the big problems of much of their lives, yes, many times to the end of their lives, so extensive are the problems we're talking about. It's very serious. It's been said very well here. I think it is very good that the Christian People's Party at the representative Ropstad has taken this up and got to throw extra light on it. It's very good that we become aware of the positions of the parties here. It's also a security for those involved. Those who are the winners of the extra measures we're talking about are just the kids and the kids. With increased security, more transparency will also emerge, and we will see that there will be more cases of abuse. When the kids get safer, when we get institutions and relationships for it, we have a better chance of helping them. SV is of the definite opinion that there are police officers with special training who are going to question us in the cases we are talking about. It will be the best solution for those affected. We also believe that we need more funding for training for these professionals with a police background. We also believe that more resources are needed for an extensive study. We are aware that there are many dark numbers. Now it's a fact that today's government, by its majority, had a different priority under the last state budget. Like several of the other speakers, we in our party, SV, have gone around talking to people in the children's houses, to the professionals who are there, and everyone says the same thing, they're just waiting for the prescription to come into place. It's important, and we think it's urgent. I get a little worried about this, which we very much agree on, when the Minister of Justice opens up to maybe go one more round. We didn't hear the reason for that, just clues, but for those involved, I hope that the Minister of Justice 'corves' won't take too long, to say it in Northern Norwegian, and that one should get a little bit ahead of this. Because it's definitely in place that we don't wait too long. It's about adjusting the tools we have. It is for the benefit of children and young people, and it is important for their development and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4237	I can close my eyes and imagine some kids I met at an emergency room in Stavanger many years ago. I can see some drawings that they drew. One of them looked like a grid of routes in and some heavy heads. I asked, are you in prison? The answer was: No, but that's how I feel to come here. It was almost like a prison, because we adults grew up to be so big. Children’s homes shall conduct court hearings, medical examinations, advice and guidance, and shall have an outbound activity, are on the children’s home page, which we have learned during our visits to them. The minister said that working with kids who have had such strong experiences, including for adults, is an impression, because it makes such an inconceivable impression. Then there is a need for guidance. Then debriefing is needed, then follow-up of those who work there, so that we do not get the penetration that is. Because I'm sure those who work on such houses have the same experience that I have, that things come back. We need to process to increase knowledge and gain good experience. But those that have the biggest influences are not adults. It's the kids. Then we need to have knowledge, and that was the fourth thing the children's houses were going to do. They were to conduct guidance and outreach activities — part of their knowledge of the health sister, who not only gets knowledge but does something about it, share it with the kindergarten, so that it can do something about it, that the school gets to know and do something about it. Knowledge we all need. So it's not just that we need knowledge to see. We also need knowledge when the verdict is complete, the first studies are completed, and the children's home has done its job. Then these kids have to go back to a municipality, and then knowledge is needed to fill this up. They carry an incredibly large backpack, it can take years to fix it again, and we have to be there for them, because they've really lost everything. It requires knowledge, not only about prevention, investigation, judgment and treatment, but also about what you need afterwards to get a good and worthwhile life. Our kids deserve it. That is why I am very pleased with what the Minister says, that it will be not just words and action plans, but action. But that also means that we have to think after the children's home has done its job. Young people must be followed up afterwards, they must grow, they must live with experience throughout their lives, and they must build confidence and regain safety for adults. They need to both learn and know that. Then all the schools that meet the kids, in advance and afterwards, have to work together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4250	I would like to thank my colleagues for a good debate. I think it's been important, and a lot of good points have come up. I would also like to thank the representative, Mrs Lagen Waogslid, for a good report. It was said that there is a Document 8 proposal, a proposal for a representative, in the Committee, so that the good input that has now been made, and the good debate that we have had, will also be continued. Then it is fully possible to continue the efforts with concrete proposals, so I look forward to the work that the Committee will have. I would also like to highlight the debate a little. The previous government has done something – I will not underestimate it – among other things. created many new children's houses, and the representative Johnny Ingebrichtsen's posts made me think of No Marte Thorkildsen, who has had and has a great commitment in this field. It is good that it is so cross-political, but as I was in my post, our main criticism has been that we have seen that the waiting times have been long years after years. We know that there's going to be an increase, and bringing down the waiting time is going to be absolutely crucial. There's a lot of expectations. I would also like to thank Mr Ebbesen for his contribution. She has an important reminder, that the main purpose, or some of the important things about the children's houses, is just that the kids don't get transported around, that they can get to one place, and then all the skills are there instead of having to travel around and tell their story over and over again. Then I would like to thank my party colleagues, both Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Olaug V. Bollestad, who – of course – had two good posts. I would also like to remind you that there is an interpellation from the representative Bekkevold at the beginning of May that deals with a little of the same thing. They also raise the multidisciplinary aspect in their speeches. Then I have to remind you of the important aspect of prevention. The more we can do to prevent it in an arena, the less it gets in this sector, which the Justice Committee works the most. I have some final points and some challenges for the Minister of Justice. I experienced him responding on most points, but I want to challenge him a little in terms of medical research. What children’s homes are also clear about is that one of the medical examinations reveals a lot of abuse – one of them knows. As the representative Bekkewold also had in mind, when you have sufficient competence, a person may reveal whether it is just a bruise or whether there has been violence or abuse. What does the Minister of Justice think about making it compulsory, or at least ensuring that children who declare that they have been subjected to beatings and violence get that study? Then there's also another important reminder for us. It is that in the NKVTS study now, a report not long ago, one in five girls under 18 years of age has been exposed to sexual assault — a terriblely high number. It just shows that there's an enormously important work that we're doing in this field. So the Christian People's Party will follow. We are pleased with the signals given by the Minister of Justice. Now it shouldn't be that it's just words this time. We have about four years ahead of us, but it is urgent to get a better job to strengthen children's legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4269	I hope we have far more than four years ahead of us, but this has to be solved in a considerably shorter time. I want to thank you for a lot of good and thought-provoking posts and for a very strong, genuine commitment on the part of the Storting. I think it's a very important signal to many of those who are struggling themselves, but also to those who are related, who are inside these processes. So, of course, it's that a married commitment must be followed up by concrete action, and we are now implementing more measures to do what is possible to do this better. Then there are some frames that we have to deal with. That's the access we have to competence, and that's the access we have to resources, which will always be a limiting factor. That's why it's necessary now to do what we can to do in both the short and the long term to do this job even better. So Lene Vågslid insisted that she would have a similar offer regardless of where you are from in the country. It's also a very important premise for you to succeed in this work. One has seen a steady and good increase in the use of children’s homes, but there are still some police districts that too little use children’s homes without any obvious justification for it. In some individual cases, there may be quite special conditions related to travel time, etc., and the child’s best interests shall always be the focus of all these assessments, but it is obvious that more people can use children’s homes more. Several have indicated that it is important now that we do not ‘corves’ for too long, which was what the Ingebrichsen called it. I agree. But we also have to put forward rules that actually make sense. The purpose of doing this job quickly must not be at the expense of doing it thoroughly. The proposal of the Severud Committee was good in many areas, but has thus been very controversial in many others. Then it is more demanding to deliver a result then. That means that an en route can make other recordings that one has to take seriously to do this as best as possible, and I think that's an important premise in itself. Finally to Ropstad, who was involved in medical research, which I also briefly touched on in my previous post: It is absolutely essential that we ensure that competence. As I mentioned, I met with the Minister of Health and Health yesterday, who is responsible for this. He also addresses this issue as a high priority task, and we have agreed to a new meeting in the follow-up of, among other things. this in the month of May/June. So there's a high focus and high pressure in the government to ensure this overall. I would like to thank you for a good and thorough debate on a very important and serious issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4286	Then there's case no. 8 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4302	I hope that with this interpellation debate, we can raise a problem that is very relevant to the police today, especially in the larger cities. One constantly hears through the media that criminals who get out of prison disappear, and that people who don't have a permanent residence move freely around society without the authorities having control of them. The question is how we can have the most effective criminal justice care based on today's legislation. How can today’s situation tell us about how matters should be handled, as opposed to what the situation was like ten years ago? And what new grip should we and can we take? Basic legal certainty is a principle that is well anchored in Norway. Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights sets out the framework for dealing with cases in criminal matters. These are basic values that we should never deviate from, nor is it my intention to record today. The goal is to make the most possible while a person is being apprehended, in compliance with the criminal law § 183. This is both in the interests of society and in the interests of its people. Some people without a permanent residence or any other connection to the kingdom do criminal acts while they are in the country. When the police detect crime being committed by these groups, it is important that a tool be given to quickly determine the criminal cases. These criminal measures are often not serious enough to allow prosecution authorities to demand the perpetrators to remain in custody until the main proceedings, due to low levels of penalties. When they intend not to recognise the relationship, Section 248 of the Criminal Code is not applicable. Then the main negotiation is the only possibility that needs to be put right, with both disciplines and laymen. Today, one has deadlines for the main negotiation of a maximum of six weeks if the person is in custody, or the case is to be regarded as a matter of time, and three months in other cases. In practice, this has the consequence that the group of lawbreakers we are now talking about is released into the street after being apprehended. When the police are going to conduct the main hearings in the district court, they have to sue the votes, but then one no longer gets hold of them. They're wanted, but one thing isn't going to track them down, and their cases are going to lie in the drawers of the police. Police, courts and others then spend a disproportionate amount of time and resources trying to find these people in order to get the lawsuits carried out. The situation is often complete in the field, the evidence situation is clear, and only correction is lacking for the courts to decide on the issue of guilt and punishment. As an illustrative example of this type of crime, when it comes to first attempts at the sale of less drugs, the Norwegian Court of Justice in 2010, page 449, has ruled that the punishment should be imposed in prison for 18 days. Precautionary punishment, therefore, means that one cannot take care of them. For Oslo police districts, this has been a major problem in recent years. For a long time, it has been quite remarkable to fight open-source drug trafficking in the centre. To deal with this problem, it's getting rid of the sellers and the repeaters completely centrally. In this it is that criminal cases must be decided quickly. Now, not the cases where people are being attacked with drugs or where they are being observed when buying and selling drugs, are the most demanding of law enforcement, but with the level of penalties we have for some types of crime, it is important that matters are decided quickly. The police have long been eager to put in place a system in which a person can expedite the simpler criminal proceedings quickly. In accordance with Section 183 of the Criminal Procedure Act, the police are given permission to hold people apprehended for a certain period of time if the conditions for their presence exist. If we could have established arrangements in the courts where it was possible to conduct the main negotiations within the 72-hour deadline, it would have been very effective. The things that are currently in the drawers of the police houses could instead have been decided quickly. So one might ask himself the question if this would have gone beyond legal certainty. It's not the difficult and complicated things that this is all about. These are matters that have been solved in the city and which are proven to be entirely elaborate, typical winnings, minor drug law offences and the like. We are not talking about power cases, electoral and murder cases. Of course, this raises the question of resources. The courts must have free capacity in order to be able to receive such speedy matters quickly, and the prosecution authorities must be able to deal with the actor. But this is possible to solve, and everyone wants to expedite things quickly. It's important that we take over the new time we're living in, the crime scene is changing, and then it might make sense to think about something new. Effective criminal proceedings are important both for the accused and for any offended parties. Criminal cases that can't be decided because they can't get access to the perpetrator are just plugs in the system. Another major practical problem is the case where a voter gets people to a future main debate while in the police detention centre, and then an unannounced sentence is given to them afterwards because they do not attend the main hearing in the district court. Thus, the judgment is not served, and they must be demanded to be served. This, too, is a resource-demanding and inappropriate use of time. The criminal services that are to execute the judgment are also not allowed to do what they are to do. An arrangement in which one could be judged within the 72 hours of being able to sit in the arrest would also have solved this problem for those cases where it would not be defined as disproportionate to sit under arrest, cf. Law of Criminal Procedure § 170a. Putting them in place is central. A final judgment may be used as a ground for expulsion. It is important that Norway has an effective system when it comes to this, within the framework of our international commitments. When I call for quick courts, I don't mean to create new organs. I think we should give a clear signal that today's law should be used, as it allows for effective criminal proceedings. However, it is important that the right to free choice of defenders is not weakened, but that a good and appropriate solution is found. I so hope that the Minister of Justice agrees with this approach, and that he will take it up in the own forums, including the National Attorney and the Police Directorate, to raise awareness of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4341	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss a more effective criminal case chain. It's a very important theme that I'm very concerned about. The Interpellation calls for a rapid court for simpler criminal proceedings, where the perpetrator is a foreign national and without a permanent residence in Norway. Based on the context of what the representative now said in his statement, I perceive that she is not proposing to set up new courts, but the organisation of a rapid track within the existing court system for these cases. Before commenting on this in detail, I need to say a little bit about the development of the crime scene in relation to the group of criminals foreigners, and give a brief insight into the strategies and objectives of the government to streamline the criminal justice chain for foreigners who commit crime in Norway. The number of foreign citizens committing criminal acts has been increasing in recent years. There is reason to believe that this development will continue, for example: as a result of increased globalisation and mobility. In particular, Norway, as a rich country with a high standard of living, will be seen as attractive to criminals who live for a shorter or longer period of time. In order to achieve an effective fight against crime, it is important that the Norwegian authorities send out a clear signal that foreign nationals who commit crimes that qualify for expulsion are immediately given a decision on expulsion and are promptly sent out by Norway. In order to achieve this, there has to be good flow in that part of the chain involving police and judicial action, investigation and proceedings relating to the review and settlement of cases before the courts. I also mention that I am concerned about the next stages in the chain, which consists of a judicial verdict, accompanied by an expulsion decision and a quick return. Here's a whole context that we shouldn't lose sight of. The starting point for good business in the chain depends on the good practice the police have in carrying out a quick investigation, or an immediate investigation into simpler matters, and how effective we have in order to have the case settled quickly in the court. In addition, we know that a major challenge in these cases is that criminal discharges often try to avoid correction of the criminal case. Similarly also applies to the next joints in the chain. Here we see that attempts to make themselves inaccessible in order to prevent the announcement of a pending decision on expulsion and the subsequent efficiencies of the shipment itself are not uncommon. A kind of preliminary summary is that effective criminal proceedings in this context result in an objective of establishing mechanisms that both ensure rapid judgment and prevent avoidance. From this point of view, I am continuing through the possibilities and limitations of the existing legislation in order to achieve effective criminal proceedings on these matters. A review of the effectiveness of current legislation should be carried out on the basis of the penalties to be applied. There are roughly three main groups here. One will be issues where the reaction is fine, the other where the reaction is conditional imprisonment, or short, unconditional sentences, and the third case that qualifies for longer, unconditional imprisonment, estimated from 45 days onwards. For the Botgroup, the cases could be decided by a bill issued by the police. Further flow in the chain depends on good cooperation procedures between the police and the UDI, so that expulsion decisions can be taken immediately. I mention that last year, about summer time, access to expulsion was extended to conditions determined by fines, including Nazirite. As a result, the number of this group has increased slightly and the efficiency requirement is therefore even more important than in the past. At the other end of the scale, we have cases that qualify for unconditional imprisonment over 45 days. In these cases, there will often be a risk of avoidance that allows access to custody. It follows from Section 275 of the Criminal Procedures Act that the main proceedings in matters of custody should be initiated within six weeks of the matter being brought before the District Court. This provision does not have a shorter period for foreign nationals. If the defendant confesses before the first prison meeting, I have been informed that several District Courts, in agreement with the prosecution authority, are practising the verdict of the confession case in the prison meeting. This practice is very distinct and shows the possibilities for improving efficiency within the current framework. In the middle group, we find cases of short, unconditional sentences under 45 days, cases ending in conditional prison, and proceedings of fines brought before the court, because the purpose did not decide. Many of these cases often have a simple and transparent picture of evidence. For the short unconditional punishments, one will be able to be judged by confession in prison meetings, as I have already pointed out. However, if the case requires a main negotiation, or the expected penalty is fine or conditional imprisonment, the risk of over-sunification will normally prevent custody imprisonment, because retention is not carried out properly enough. There's this group of criminal foreigners we're left with here in the middle group, which is really the background of this interpellation -- as I see it. I would add: it is this group that is particularly challenging for the effectiveness of the criminal action chain. I am very concerned about this issue, and I have therefore asked the Police Directorate to obtain information to enumerate the group and the possible extent of criminal acts the group commits. The collection of information is currently limited to the districts of Oslo, Asker, Bærum and Romerike. I have also asked that work be started on the changes in the law that are needed to follow up the interesting recording by the scapegoat writer in Oslo District Court in the evening post yesterday, where he sets out a quick track for foreign criminals. I share his assessment that today's system creates unnecessary resource use. The author's willingness to think again promises well for the further work on this matter. What kind of concrete legislative changes it can be about, we're going to get closer to. The requirement for speed and efficiency will determine the nature of the legislative changes involved and the extent to which changes need to be made in each provision. This can be illustrated in more detail by the concrete proposal of the inter-pellant. The ambition of the proposal is that judgement should be made within the time limit laid down in Section 183 of the Criminal Procedures Act, that is to say, preferably the day following the inception or at the latest on the third day after the inception. The timeframe makes the proposal difficult to reconcile with some key provisions of process legislation in terms of practical implementation. One example is the requirement of three days' notice before the main negotiation, on which the interpellant himself had the right to the right of the defence election, the right of the defence to have time to prepare the case and discuss it with a view to interpreting, drawing with judges to the main negotiation and the rules on appeal periods and appeal proceedings. Of course, changes in existing legislation will need to look at the organisation of the courts in question and the new procedures that need to be developed between the police, the courts and the defence. The experience of Oslo’s rights related to the so-called 518 model shows that actors contribute to better efficiency when schemes are organised for it. In short, courtroom 518 in Oslo has been earmarked for simpler criminal cases of half a day's duration. The General Court also has an agreement with the Oslo police district, which means that the police itself blames the main debate in this Chamber. When e.g. the victim is without a domicile, the police will be able to legally sue him for the main proceedings and to be convicted of the criminal offence. Oslo District Court ruled 192 such cases in 2012 and 159 cases in 2013, indicating how much efficiency gains such schemes can generate. The government statement also says that we should investigate the rapid court in a larger context and that it should be thoroughly investigated. Of course we'll come back to that. In summary, the government shares the inter-pellant's wish to have more effective handling of these cases, and we will come back to what relevant changes in legislation are needed to implement them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4387	Effective criminal proceedings must be a goal for everyone in this room, even if there aren't too many of us right now. We've seen in the last few years that one has implemented the deployment of a very large number of foreign citizens who do not have the basis for being here in the country. It is important to get out of the country as soon as possible. In Oslo, we still hear that some groups have their territory where they, among other things, have their territory. drugs. When the police get hold of people who have committed a criminal offence, it is best that these people be judged for the relationship. We must prevent them from just returning to the same environment and engaging in new crime. We can have something to learn from countries with comparable legal systems. It's up to you to pick up impulses from outside. It would be interesting to know how many criminal cases have been set aside in Police Norway as a result of a lack of access to people who have been released after being apprehended. This may appear to have been a major increase in recent years. I don't expect the Council of State to come up with a number now, but I noticed that he meant that there would be statistics associated with this problem. That's good. Legal certainty shall be the basis of all the arrangements we put in place. The goal must be to combine legal certainty with effective mechanisms that ensure a safe society with less crime, and I thank the Council of State for a particularly positive attitude to the interpellation. I think this is one of the goals that should be cross-political, and that we can cooperate on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4400	I am also very pleased that we find cross-political agreement on the importance of criminal foreigners not going free and continuing their criminal career. Unfortunately, it is too much today that criminals foreigners who initially do not have legal residence, for quickly come back to the streetscape. A lot of work has been done on it, especially in the Oslo police district, which is the police district that has deciphered most of those kinds of things. I think it's very good -- and creative, really -- that more people now think thoroughly through how we can solve this in a more effective way than we can do today. It's true, as the representative Klinge says, we're now collecting information to see what kind of scope we're actually talking about, while at the same time we're working on an opportunity to look at both simple legislative changes, which can help fix this, and whether we can find solutions that might require a more comprehensive review of the law. We will, of course, come back to this Chamber with proposals on this, and I look forward to the constructiveness and discussion that this will entail.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4409	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up an important theme for discussion. I also want to start with the post that was in the evening post yesterday, from Lund and Engerretsen from Oslo District Court, because they point, as the Minister of Justice says, to a 'fast track' for foreign criminals and several challenges we face. We know that it is a major problem that foreign citizens who are accused of criminal acts, such as crime, are accused. disappear before the trial, and others also point out that this obviously weakens the judicial system. I notice that Oslo District Court – or Lund and Engretsen – is addressing this rapid track for people without connection to Norway, so that one can be judged in the first trial, at the latest three days after apprehension. I am also pleased that Klinge makes it clear that she does not think that it should be built up an independent judicial body, to build up own judicial bodies in order to do something about trial speed or type of case, I trust. But I have more faith in a fast track. At the same time, I would like to try to problem it a little, because it may be that one of them will have decisions sooner and more often, because the next one will be done with the matter and avoid taking care of it. However, the premise of this procedure and the speed with which it is to be carried out is that the intention to grant and consent to jurisdiction in the event of acknowledgment of acknowledgment. He or she might do so if he or she gets a fresh touch or if he or she has a view of a criminal discount. But it's only if the authorities and the prosecutors decide that he will be legally enforceable and can be executed immediately. Otherwise, he becomes rightful when the appeal period of two weeks expires, and if the judgment is appealed, there will be a separation of time, regardless of whether the case is dealt with as quickly as advice. I think it might be interesting to take a closer look at how to get a faster track. At the same time, it is important to bring with it, as Lund and Engebretsen pointed out in the evening post yesterday, that there are demands for a defence and adequate judicial process for everyone in Norway. As they write: ‘We assume, of course, that Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights on the rule of law and the right to freedom of defence shall be respected.’.» I'm glad that both Klinge and the Minister of Justice mention it – and I'm in no way surprised about it, but I think it's very important to underline it. This is a legal certainty guarantee that applies to all present on Norwegian soil, regardless of whether you are legally suspended or not. I think it would be problematic to make special rules that weaken legal certainty for this group. So the concern for Article 6 of the EMC and any such rapid track must be united. Crime no longer knows any borders, and for example: mobile profitability, especially from Eastern Europe, is a major societal problem. We know that there is a place of indifference and human trafficking both in and to Norway. It challenges our security, and we politicians need to make it possible for the police and courts to solve what we expect of them. In addition, it is important that the government continues to do the work of the red-green government in terms of settlement agreements and settlement transfers with other countries. Here, EU cooperation is very central. When the Labour Party joined the government, we were accepted for Norway to become part of that work. International judicial cooperation is crucial to combat the international crime scene. The number of persons arrested and imprisoned with foreign citizenship is increasing. That is why it is very important to continue cross-border work through close cooperation with police and prosecution authorities in other countries. When it comes to the case of Klinge, it also seemed this way, according to what the Minister of Justice said, that we do not talk about an independent judicial body. It may well be that by taking action — which was also outlined by the Minister of Justice — one can solve the challenges in the courts as they are today. I also think it is important, as has also been said by former Justice Ministers here, to focus on the practical cooperation between stakeholders and look at the organisational solutions. I look forward to further discussions on this topic anyway. It's very important. I also think it has been a very constructive debate between the parties for the time being, and that is very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4436	The right is in favour of different forms of rapid justice being investigated. This is also reflected in the government's political platform. There is one of several measures that can lead to a lower average duration of proceedings in the courts. I want to raise my eyes a little bit and not just talk about quick courts in isolation, but first of all look at the benefits of a quick handling of criminal cases. The context is really quite simple: the rule of law depends on the confidence of the people. Trust is achieved when people see that it reacts to norm breakers. The longer it takes to react, the greater the danger of our trust in our legal system falling. Therefore, it is very desirable to consider a number of measures to reduce the average duration of treatment in the judiciary. Rapid courts may be such a solution, but this can also be done by increasing the number of annual works in existing courts. One can remove out-of-date legal bans; one can empower the police to resolve several issues, such as: with simplified presentation, or we can simplify the rules of procedure we have today, for example. simpler rules for prosecuting. What becomes the fasit, we can come back to in a later debate. It remains to be seen. However, as long as the fundamental principles of legal certainty are respected – the principle of counter-dictation, the presumption of innocence, the free choice of defence and appeals – can be a very right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4445	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue, and I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for very positive feedback. Times are changing, and it's important to see the problems that are actually out in society. The number of people who are wanted, both nationally and internationally, has increased. This goes hand in hand with increased stockpiles and the residual situation in many police districts. Whether you have Norwegian or foreign origins, you have a right to be properly treated in the judicial system. One should feel that one is getting serious and that the legal security is being alerted. However, there is no contradiction between being treated quickly and respecting the fundamental principle of legal certainty. Therefore, I am pleased that the Minister of Justice will look at how we can effectively close these through a criminal justice system. Recording is therefore very important. The problem of wanted people is greatest in the big cities, but travelling criminals also strike in the country, and that is why this is a national issue. It's not just about increasing permissions or changing promises, it's often about looking at the systems that we already have today and what possibilities these give us. Every day, the police do a good and important job, so we have to make sure that they have the means to do it effectively. The criminal chain has a lot of joints, and everyone depends on each other. The police, the courts, the criminal services -- they all depend on each other. Let's think about it a little bit. Let's use the possibilities the law gives us, because then I'm absolutely sure that the devices through dialogue will find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4462	We're talking about quick courts -- I'm going to try to be a fast politician right now. I just want to thank you for the debate and thank you for a positive attitude from the Minister of Justice and the others. I am also pleased that everyone together confirms that our ideals of legal certainty for everyone are firm. Here's what we're talking about: we have to look at the possibilities, not just the limitations of this law, and then we're going to make any changes that you have to make, but it's quite possible to look at the spaces that already exist. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4471	I can almost say that this interpellation also went into a separate quick file, but the debate has been good, and the posts have been reflected and good. I just want to add a couple of perspectives, because we see a change in the crime scene that helps us to adapt in a new way. Today, about half of those in custody are non-residents. About 34 pst. of the ordinary settlement prisoners are nationals of a foreign country. It's a dramatic change compared to the situation we saw just a few years ago. It also helps to underline the importance of not stimulating people who are here starting on a criminal track to stay here and continue on the criminal track, as it is likely to lead to more serious crime as well. That's why it's enough to make early efforts and early send criminal foreigners out of the country, very important. We're not going to lose sight of the perspective that Frølich had in mind, the perspective of an effective criminal case in general. It's absolutely crucial for all areas, but we still have to allow ourselves to think a little bit of new thoughts about some special groups that create special challenges. I really think that Følling summed it up in a very good way: one has to put the police and the courts in a position to do their job, and that's our job, so then we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4485	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4491	Then the Storting is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4509	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 56 votes were cast for the Committee's vote and 42 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.09.34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4518	from the hall: My panel is locked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4523	We have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4554	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4579	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4671	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e4681	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e5399	The President drew attention to two corrections in the inner East. 130 L. One correction is on page 2 of the setting and refers to recommendation I, paragraph 3, where the word ‘new’ is taken out in the first sentence. The second correction is on page 5 of the adjustment and relates to recommendation I, paragraph 15 § 431, second paragraph, where the word «hand luggage» shall be preceded by «For».
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e5414	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e5424	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 7–9 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-03.ana.ud2238e5439	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
