ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e55	The formerly provisionally exempted alternate of Oslo, Olivia Corso Salles, has taken up his seat. The called alternate of the Aust-Agder County, Lene Langemyr, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group for the representative Per Sandberg from 10 December until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Lill Harriet Sandaune, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Little Harriet Sandaune is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e85	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Øyvind Halleraker and Lise Christoffersen. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Halleraker and Lise Christoffersen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that today's Storting meeting be suspended at 0 p.m. 11.30 to allow representatives to participate in the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Oslo City Hall. As a result, the President will propose that the meeting be resumed at 9 p.m. 3:30 p.m. and continue outwards. 16 until the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e103	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2, 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e143	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be divided into two sections to deal first with the budget chapters under the heading 2 of the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge, and then with the budget chapters under the heading 3 of the Ministry of Culture. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each part of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that, both in part 1 of the debate and in part 2 of the debate, there should be a change of line of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e158	It is common practice to thank the other members of the Committee for their cooperation when the budget is presented in the Chamber. I do, too, today, especially because there is reason to commend the committee leader because he and the rest of the position have contributed to us getting through a difficult period of roughness and respect for what has been very lengthy budgetary negotiations. I understand that not everyone has experienced it this way in other committees. Today we are dealing with the first budget that really shows the direction of the government, which shows which choices and priorities have been made. Much is good, and we as communities have great opportunities. The budget is growing year by year, giving government and increasing scope for action to prioritise. The Labour Party disagrees with the main actions of the Solberg Government in its priorities. The slogan ‘People, not billions’ has been replaced by ‘People with billions’. Taxes for those who have the most are the main gains of the budget. In fact, there is some moderated after intensive negotiations between government and supporting parties here in the Grand Duchy, but still the smallest single budget effort has been cut off from the wealth tax. This means that many areas that could otherwise have been lifted will not be. The nursery budget received a small addition of 800 places – or two in each municipality. Flexible kindergarten admissions, which were to replace what was described by Højres Linda C. Hofstad Helleland as being similar to schemes in a Soviet state in the election campaign, are now entirely up to the municipal authorities to prioritise – in competition with cutbacks in school and in the care budgets because the municipal budgets are very tight. I wonder if the families of children don't prefer predictability either, a date when they get a right, rather than this type of flexibility. The fact that families with incomes of over 470,000 have to pay for an unclear social payment scheme for the other families with children is not one of the priorities we have done. In child protection, there is a stake in the state child protection. That is good, and we support it. But does the community economy provide room for the continued development of municipal child protection, which detects and prevents, which guides and investigates? Strengthening family protection and mandatory parental training – is that what exposes the demanding issues? Good kindergartens and child protection depend on good municipal economy. I do not know anyone who does not experience the budget harvest demandingly in Kommune-Norway, and then the municipalities should get a greater share of the space at the expense of people with billions. Gender equality policy to the government is a well-hidden secret. The system of kitchen table negotiations to replace clear government intervention is now being developed further. The paperwork shall not be cut by just four weeks; it shall be fully removable with a small cross on a form – in the name of the freedom of choice. I think most of us have registered that the vast majority of organisations, both on the employee and employer sides, yes, most of them who are concerned with gender equality, have warned. I went through the hearing, and then I found one organisation and one private person supporting the scheme that is now being presented. We record that the government often listens to the employee side. Now there are no signs that the government will listen. I challenge the Council of State to clarify what she thinks about the system after such massive recordings as what has come to the hearing. That's how you can wonder if we have an equality minister when such a grip is done. I challenge the Council of State to say something. What is she concerned about in terms of equality, and what is going to happen to a system that nobody wants, in terms of changes in the parental quota?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e182	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e185	The working party is concerned with equality, but nevertheless some children are similar to others, to say it a little 'orwellish'. Children who go to municipal kindergartens and children who go in private are not equivalent in the Workers' Party's alternative budget. Instead of following the pace of government towards a more equivalent funding system, they choose to reduce rates. The question is: why does the Workers' Party believe that children in private kindergartens are worth less than children in municipal areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e190	The answer to that is quite obvious. We have registered that the Council of State has also said that you should go through the regulations to see if this works as intended. We see that many children in municipal kindergartens have special needs, and there are far more expensive pension schemes in municipal kindergartens. What we mean by similarity is that you have to cover the actual costs that are in each place. I note that the budget lines of the Right and the Advance Party do not want to be fully equalised, but there are still differences in the appropriations allocated to the private and to the local authorities. I think it's because you've seen that it's a system that doesn't work according to purpose as it is today. We welcome changes to compensate for the actual costs you have, and not a stencil that allows some to draw large amounts of money out of a public budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e195	The Labour Party is talking about billions and people, and people are important. The Government's proposal seeks to include a national minimum level of parental reduction. This is something the Workers' Party has not found room for when you put it into the frame. We know that's approx. 15 pst. of the municipalities which do not have such a scheme. The working party could probably say that we have many municipalities that follow this up. For example, the municipality of Nannestad, which is a workers’ party governed body, has a system they call ‘Lavere incomes’, and then they have a moderation for those who earn NOK 0-200000. I do not know if this is what the Workers' Party means by normal income. Why does the Workers' Party not want to give children and families with lower incomes the possibility of a place in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e202	It's a big misunderstanding that we don't want to give children with parents who have low incomes, babysitting. But we have a system today that works for 85 pst. by the municipalities. We believe that we should also tighten up the municipalities that do not have such arrangements. We believe that the system now proposed does not take into account the different levels of costs in the municipalities, and that it would be a rather demanding and bureaucratic system to begin to find out who lives together, who should have the different schemes. That is why we believe that the system that is currently regulated should have been reinforced, and that we should ensure that all the municipalities follow the rules. We do not agree with what the government does – that they leave that bill to other young children’s parents. We spend billions on people, but not on those people who already have a lot. There's room for making the arrangements within the state budget that's there. We have transferred the money within the framework of the municipalities, and we are confident that the municipalities will be able to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e207	In the vote, the Christian People's Party points out that the number of child distribution cases before the courts has increased in recent years, and that the Court administration and the Children's Ombudsman etc. believes that the current system of one mandatory conciliation hour before the choice of bringing the case before the courts may be one of the reasons for the increase. The Christian People's Party has therefore, in the past and again, encouraged the Ministry to look at the possibility of returning to the scheme of three mandatory mediation hours. Despite the recordings of the Children's Ombudsman and the Court of Justice, the Workers' Party does not want to support our proposal. Does the Labour Party really think that it would not have been interesting to have an evaluation of whether there could be a causal link between the reduction in compulsory mediation and the increase in the number of child distribution cases before the courts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e214	I agree with Mr Becquerad that it is important that we find good arrangements for those families that have a high level of conflict. So the one-hour system can be a little tight. But we're not sure if it's right to say that everyone is going into a mediation situation where you spend three hours. Fortunately, there are many parents who manage to get a divorce in a good way and get good deals between themselves, and then we think it's wrong to add up to a system where everyone has to go through a three-hour mediation. There might be other ways to fix it, and we can be willing to discuss it in the future, but then we have to see a whole thing in it all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e220	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e223	Adults for children have a nice poster that I wish for Christmas to have in the office. It says: ‘I am unique. Since the dawn of time, there has never existed anyone like me. No one has my eyes, nose, hands or voice. No one has my handwriting. Throughout eternity, no one will ever look, think, talk or do the same thing as me. I'm me, have my own value and don't have to copy others. I'm unique." The reason I want this in the office is because it reminds me that when we create politics, we do it for children and adults, who are different, who come with different hand luggage, who have their own history – which is unique. Unique children are entitled to grow up with love and good care around them, a care that gives security to master life further. But we know that too many children don't experience this. Some experience that childhood becomes a springboard for poor schooling, mental illness, disability and unemployment. That is why I am proud of the government and the cooperation parties, who have put forward a budget that is more devoted to family protection than ever, and in which the protection of state and local children is strengthened – a budget that puts children's legal certainty on the agenda. In meeting with children who have experienced the failure of adults around them, several people say that they would like the help to come earlier. That is why it is important and right to strengthen municipal child protection. Good and effective child protection is one of the main objectives of government, and therefore it is important that child protection, in cooperation with health centres, kindergartens, schools, school health services and others, sees children in need of help and adopts good quality measures at the right time. This is why health centres are strengthened in this budget, as well as working on quality in kindergartens and in schools. Child protection is not only strengthened financially. We propose to give the opportunity to apply measures to families who need help, earlier than today, even without parental consent. Today, we have a high proportion of emergency decisions, and early intervention could reduce the proportion. Children will be able to get help in the past, and families will be able to continue to be families with some help. The division of responsibilities between the State and the municipality of child protection needs to be clarified. That is why we look forward to the communication on the change in structure, as the Council of State has announced. This, together with the community reform, will be the start of building a more robust child protection system for the future. The prevention of family protection offices is considerably strengthened in this budget. This comes at the top of the bet in 2014. Never before has there been more focus on family protection in Norway. Family protection offices do a good job of preventing life conflicts. Particular importance is attached to working with families with children where there is violence and a high level of conflict. We know that the level of conflict is particularly high after a breakup. Children come to the crossfire and are loyal to both parents. Then it is important that they are appropriately heard in the context of family protection. In this respect, we refer to the proposal to assess that all children have their own conversation hours. It hurts the mother's heart to follow recent media stuff about violence against children. Childhood is short, and the children who are not seen get serious but, and some die too young. The Child Protection Service in Lørenskog says that we don't see it until we believe it. It is therefore important that the government raise this issue by promoting the action plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. The plan of action, a good childhood out there, is a cooperation between several departments. To ensure the safety of children, stone by stone must be built. Work must be done interdisciplinaryly and across departmental and municipal boundaries. The budget launches a pilot project to ensure that extensive studies on violence and sexual abuse against children and young people must be carried out in an ethically sound manner. This is important for children, but it is also important for the credibility of the study. The unprovoked happens, and the children who are subjected to violence or sexual assault need good, safe help and follow-up. A new system of grants is hereby established for actions for children at risk of violence. It is aimed at non-governmental organisations and aims to contribute to supporting the establishment and operation of measures that can improve the quality of life of children exposed to violence. The budget we are about to adopt today is in the signs of prevention. By seeing children who are hurt, a little earlier, putting in good measures adapted to the child at the right time and making families move on with stronger ties, we are creating a safer future for even more children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e258	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e261	Living costs as well as other circumstances can vary greatly, which speaks to maintain today's regulation on the moderation of parental pay in kindergarten. The last 15 pst. by the municipalities which have not applied the regulation as desirable, should have been managed by the county officials. Can the representative please explain the merit of adding the proposed 6 pst. of the income limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e266	First of all, I think it's important that we take care of the families that need it the most. The moderator system it's now being added to, does exactly that. It allocates income and payment. We know that today not all municipalities have these arrangements, but we know that many municipalities have the arrangements. Of course, we encourage good municipalities to continue with their good arrangements. But to be absolutely sure that all children and families are being cared for in the vast and knowledge of our country, we are doing this grip.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e273	It may sound like a fine intention, but the fact is that if a family has a common income of more than NOK 470,000, they are outside the regime of government parties. And then the follow-up question is: why does the representative barrels think it is right that a family with a common income of 500,000 kroner should actually get an increase in kindergarten price of 100 kroner a month?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e278	I continue my answer: I tried to say that it is important to take care of all families in our country. We know today it's 15 pst. of our municipalities that have no help at all for those families that really need it. For us, it has been a goal to achieve everyone with our scheme, and we have therefore proposed this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e283	With the budget agreement of 207 million. kr extra for kindergarten expansion in addition to the 100 million. According to figures from the Ministry of Knowledge, the government itself has to build 3,400 new kindergartens for next year. The Christian People's Party is very pleased with this agreement. This allows more children in line to have a children's garden space. This also increases family freedom of choice. But my question to the Right Representative is: how will the Right ensure that the money that has come into place also through the conciliation actually goes to increased construction of kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e288	As we were in a previous line shift, most of our municipalities are very good at working with good solutions, and they do it almost best when they are allowed to prioritise within their own budgets as much as possible. Earmarking tends to punish those who are already doing well, and to compensate for those who may have prioritised a little differently. Although there are different positions in this room and different approaches, I can see that we agree, all the parties in this room, that more money needs to be spent to increase the flexibility of the nursery reception. With such agreement in this room, I expect and have confidence that our municipal politicians around Norway will follow up on this too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e295	In an annotation of this setting, you can see that the Working Party, Right, SV and the Center Party are represented in the Input. 380 S for 2012–2013 recommended basic crewing in one adult per three young children’s seats and one adult per six children’s seats by 2020. In answer to question No. 139 to the Financial Committee, the Government does not make progress or discuss plans to achieve this objective. My question is whether the Right has gone beyond the goal of setting such a requirement for ground crew. And in case not, how do you think that this goal will then be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e300	As a baby mother herself and with a little girl in the nursery, I am also concerned about this. The government statement says that we are going to investigate crew standards by 2020, and that is what I am dealing with. The answers we get from the Council of State are that they are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e306	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e309	Prevention is a central key to this government. Prevention is now being given a solid boost, rather than just giving money to measures that have the task of repairing. The government wants to prevent serious problems from arising. We therefore believe that early efforts to create working families are important, and that guidance and support are offered to first-time parents and to families with a high level of conflict. I am therefore very much in favour of the strong increase in family protection, which is one of several measures that we want to take to a greater extent to prevent harmful behaviour from developing within families. I receive enquiries every week, both from families who tell me about an absence of child protection that should have been involved in relief or care measures, and from families who tell me about takeovers without trying to provide help. I believe that the legal security of children and families in contact with the Child Protection Service must be ensured. Child protection must also be organised in such a way as to enable it to carry out its tasks properly and properly. That is why I am very pleased that the government has set up a statutory committee to review the Child Protection Act and that the structure of child protection is under assessment. At the same time, I welcome the fact that the government has announced an increase in the use of relief measures also in the field of child protection, where it can prevent the need for care. It is important to comply with the obligation to notify child protection — and that adults report that small innocents may not be so well at home — where there is a suspicion of care failure. It must and should be better to say from once too much than once too little. This budget has a clear social profile, and the government is making an effort for the most vulnerable children. A whole new system of grants has been established for actions for children who have experienced violence and abuse. The support scheme for child poverty and for child and youth action in larger cities is also strengthened, so that children growing up in poor families will receive equivalent offers as other children. In addition, a national parental pension scheme for kindergarten is hereby established from 1 May 2015. The mode of moderation means that the maximum parent payment shall be 6 pst. of the total income of the family, with a maximum price of NOK 2 580. This means that households with an income of less than NOK 473 000 are entitled to a reduction in the parental payment. The maternity scheme has previously been up to each municipality, and 15 pst. of the municipalities have not offered moderation. Therefore, a national regime is important. We know that several municipalities have arrangements, and we also know that good municipalities that have good arrangements will not take them from their inhabitants. A flexible babysitting is very important for me and for all families with children who are ‘born at the wrong time’ under today’s legislation. In order to ensure a flexible recording, multiple nursery places are necessary. I am therefore very pleased that funds are now being allocated to 3,400 new kindergartens, which take us a good piece in the right direction. Finally, I would like to thank you for the cooperation with the Contracting Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. A good budget is now presented for final consideration in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e324	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e327	In connection with the government’s proposal to increase the use of temporary jobs, it is claimed that temporary jobs will affect women more than men. As a committee, we have a special responsibility for equality. How does the representative Stordalen feel about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e332	I consider temporary jobs to be an opportunity for many of those who do not come in and get a permanent job, who do not get a regular job. There is an option especially within, among other things, kindergartens and municipalities. In many municipalities, there is a lot of temporary activity, and there is a high level of disease absence in a number of professions. It gives an opportunity for those who have not got a regular job to come in and try. Those who have been out of work for other reasons are given the opportunity to come in and try out. All of them, most of them on temporary employment, become permanent employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e337	I thank you for your answer. According to VG 13 November, the Council of State called for an impact assessment before the government concludes that it would allow for greater use of temporary posts, on the basis of the knowledge that the use of temporary posts would specifically affect women. Does the representative of State Council support Horne or State Council Eriksson in this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e342	I'm basically concerned that everyone should have an opportunity to get into the world of work. It's about equivalency. Today’s system shows that when temporary employment is less used, there is also less chance of getting permanent employment. They all, most of them who can now get in, get to try a little bit longer and prove who they are, get a steady job. It's about equivalency, that everyone gets an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e347	The Christian People's Party is pleased that we have increased family protection by 35 million in the budget agreement. kr, and that these means are to be used both for the protection of the State family and for the protection of the religious family. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that all family protection offices and all family protection work are strengthened regardless of ownership. The Right Party and the Advance Party have traditionally cooperated with the Christian People's Party on two-track family protection and thought it was important. This is about the roots of family protection, about the existence of non-public offices, the existence of government offices, and the fact that everyone provides valuable services, no matter who started them, and no matter who owns them. Does the representative of the Progress Party agree with the importance of two-track family protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e354	I agree that ideal and public – a variety of offers – are important. It has been important and will be important in the future. It is important for this government to look at the complex need, the complex challenges. Then we also need complex and different offers. Therefore, the Progress Party agrees that more tracks are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e359	On 3 October 2012, the Ideal Network, Works, Freedom Norway and KS Company signed an important cooperation agreement with the Red-Green Government on the provision of health and social services. Dialogue meetings were to be held once-twice a year, and the agreement was to be evaluated after four years. The then government gave high priority to the follow-up to the agreement, but in the budget debate last year there was an uncertainty as to whether the new government would continue this cooperation agreement. During the hearing of the Health Committee this year, I notice that the non-profit sector strongly criticised the new blue-blue government for the fact that this cooperation agreement still does not work as they wanted. My question is whether there is now a reluctance in the Progress Party to continue this cooperation agreement, as it takes so long to get him in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e364	There's no reluctance on the part of this government. This government is engaged in using both non-commercial, non-commercial, private commercial and public services. This government is concerned that it is a good offer, and not necessarily of what it should be called, but ideals are still important to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e370	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e373	With the budgetary agreement that the Christian People's Party has concluded with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, the social profile of the budget for 2015 is strengthened, and I am very pleased with that. It is also very positive that the reconciliation involves a strengthening of the family profile and a strong strengthening of the kindergarten sector. Kindergarten is a major and important part of the everyday life of most families with young children, and kindergarten is one of the biggest winners in the budgetary processes. With regard to the social profile of the family, I would like to mention the changes made to the child allowance, transitional benefit and tax, the increased one-off benefit, the fact that several families with low incomes receive lower parental benefit in kindergartens, the maximum price increase is deferred, and it is important that the two changes in the parental payment occur at the same time. The availability of free core time in kindergartens for 4- to 5-year-olds in low-income households is expanded and 42 million. kr is set aside for free kindergarten for children living on reception. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Norwegian families are strengthened by a strong increase in the family protection budget. That's 50 million. kr more in 2015 than in 2014. This is a strong sign of two-track family protection. Several are given the opportunity to participate in life courses and parental training, and ideal family and child centres are rescued from closure. This was a particularly important victory for the Christian People's Party. We are told by several teams that there are many families who need the offer, and there is demand from the municipalities for places at such centres. The need is not covered by Bufdir's own offer, but due to a lack of agreement with Bufdir, the municipalities will not receive compensation if spaces are used. Today, these five ideal children’s and family centres, which are also mentioned in the call, stand without users of the offers. These are run by the Church's Bymition, the Blue Cross, the Church's Social Service and two separate foundations. Now Stortinget decides to raise $35 million. SEK shall be used at the premises of these centres in 2015. The Storting wants Bufdir to buy guaranteed places from these five ideal actors. The size will allow these establishments to be actively used. We don't want these offers to have to shut down. We don't have such good advice that we can say no to these solid professional environments. The agreement also gives the family a better daily life when more people feel that they have a real choice when the leave period is over. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the conciliation ensures that even more one-year-olds get kindergarten in 2015. 307 million. SEK shall ensure 3,400 new places in 2015. This was one of the highest priorities for the Christian People's Party in the negotiations. We give priority to this because we know that it will mean everything in many families' everyday lives. Childcare facilities when needed are essential to make everyday life go up too many – for all those who do not want to use the cash support to be at home with one-year-olds a little longer. There are actually parents who want it too. And there are parents who want to combine and take a few days in kindergarten and a few days at home. Therefore, the Christian People's Party wants the cash support to become more flexible again, and therefore asks the majority government to look at this. The Christian People's Party is impatient in terms of pediatric staffing standards. We believe that enough adult and enough kindergarten teachers are the most important things for the quality of kindergarten. We know that there were 4 400 kindergarten teachers missing in 2013, and we have to take this seriously. I would also like to highlight today that adoption aid is finally being increased to 1 G, and that the majority is asking the government to ensure the continuation of work with new countries of cooperation. It is important for the Christian People's Party that the bulk of the population with this expresses a clear willingness to facilitate more adoption. For the Christian People's Party, it is also very central that children who for various reasons do not live with their parents should experience security and good care. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the conciliation involves a strengthening of municipal child protection of 20 million. kr, in addition to a 10 million increase in child protection in Oslo. kr. The budget of the councils for child protection and social affairs is increased by 10 million. kr, and more means are provided for the recruitment of foster homes. The agreement also means 2 million. increased support for holiday measures for disadvantaged children and 2 million. kr in grants to an organisation in the field of child protection, including the Change Factory. The alternative budget of the Christian People's Party is so good in the family field and otherwise. There are primary points of view that we are going to continue working on to be realised, but today this is my main conclusion: the Christian People's Party is pleased that the 2015 budget after the conciliation has a better social profile, including in the family sector. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the 2015 budget facilitates an even better everyday life for the family. I bring up the proposals we have made on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e401	The representative Geir Jørgen Bekkewold has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e406	Cash support is important for the Christian People's Party. The system should give parents more time with the children, it says to read. My question to the Christian People's Party is: How will the Christian People's Party motivate more fathers to choose cash support?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e411	What's nice to see is that the number of fathers who use the cash support is actually increasing. It seems that the Christian People's Party is very positive, because we don't think this is a system that is intended primarily to be a mother. This is a family scheme to give the family more flexibility and greater opportunity to choose solutions other than the A4 solutions that the red-green parties thought were right. But as I said, it is gratifying to see that there are actually even more fathers who are now using the cash support than before, and then we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e418	The representative Bekkewold shows a commitment to the weakest in our society and especially to the prevention work in the family protection offices. An important issue for the Christian People's Party has been the two-track system of ideal and state offices. Could the representative clarify why this particular cooperation is important for the quality of prevention work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e425	For the Christian People's Party, this is about the roots of family protection, and this is a very good example of what we're talking about when we talk about the ideal actors as pioneers who came on the field before the state. They saw that there was a need and initiated actions and offers that have subsequently been recognised and defined as public authorities' offerings and responsibilities. The Church's family protection knows the importance of the family and so the need for support and guidance to families in challenging situations, and they set out to help people and serve society. They have shown that it is not just profit and market mechanisms that provide creativity and drive. That is why it is important that we take care of these ideal actors and that we maintain this two-tracked system in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e430	In the remarks on the budget now, the Christian People's Party has written in a way with the government parties in a note that is quite interesting. They've written that ‘The government is now considering introducing the possibility of imposing relief measures on children and families whose purpose is to avoid taking over care, even where the parents do not agree. The change means that child protection can provide help to all children who need it, and that taking care is not the only way out where a child really needs help’. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party now agrees with the Right and the Advance Party that it is time for a new policy to help the children who need it, and help families to stay together, and that this can be the right track?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e439	No one should be surprised that the Christian People's Party occasionally writes itself into comments – both from one side and the other – as if they are good. We are concerned that there is a policy in this area that takes care of children as well and thoroughly as possible. That is why I have commended the Council of State when she has now called for arrangements to be put in place for the protection of children, even where parents do not agree, because it is the child and the child's best that is important here. I'm open to discuss all this further with the government parties, with the government council, and I look forward to presenting matters to the Stortinget that will give us a child protection and a system that will provide the best possible care for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e448	The representative Bekkewold mentioned the child supplement as one of the matters of the Christian People's Party is pleased with in the budget agreement of the year. In the past, we have believed that the cuts in the children’s allowance – with the budget agreement – are limited to approximately NOK 5 500 for a disabled child-career. So it turns out that the numbers that the Storting has been given are 2014 numbers. As the default system changes from 1 January 2015, it is much more relevant to compare with what the performance would actually be like in 2015. Those figures tell a completely different story: carrying out low-income three-child dependants lose $20,752 each with the budgetary agreement to the Christian People's Party. Does the representative Becquerad believe that a disabled three-child carer agrees that losing NOK 20 000 per year gives a better everyday life to the family?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e453	The children's supplement has been a topic that has been discussed a lot, including here at Stortinget, even after the budgetary conciliation was in port. I just have to say for my own part that I wish the Christian People's Party had got a blank victory, but we still believe that it has become a better social profile than what was the starting point before we went in and started the negotiations. I'm glad that we've got a system that's permanent, and that the need-tested children's supplement is still going to lie there, and then we'll see how this can be seen later. But if not everything is perfect – and I do not expect any recognition from SV either in this or in any other area – then in the Christian People's Party we know what we have done, we know what we have done in these negotiations, and this budget has got a greater social profile than it had before we started the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e461	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e464	The child and family policies of the Centre Party shall contribute to smoothing social health inequalities and ensuring that all children are entitled to a good upbringing. Kindergartens are an important area of early effort. The entitlement to kindergarten is not met until we have two kindergarten admissions per year, and the Center Party will grant 241 million. kr in 2015 for a escalating plan for this purpose. In the draft government budget, the maximum price is raised to NOK 2 580 per month. The central party agrees that families with low incomes will have lower child care costs and support the government in it, but we do not support this being financed by an increase in the maximum price in addition to the salary growth for the other kindergartens. The central party is therefore going in to reduce the maximum price by 100 kroner per month compared to the government's proposal. We note that the government is continuing the model of the Central Party for cash support, and in our alternative budget we support the proposal for government funds. In our alternative budget, we're also spending about 77 million. to reintroduce the Finnmarks and Svalbard plug-in into the child's back. The Central Party believes that an increase in the disposable benefit for women who have not earned birth money is an important poverty-reducing measure that will also be a factor in abortion prevention work. We increase the one-time fee to 1 G from July 2015. The centre part also increases the adoption support to 1G from the same point in time to provide better facilities for those who want to adopt. Cut to the government in favour of single minor asylum seekers in child protection, we think we will make it harder for the municipalities to offer this vulnerable group a good enough offer. That's why the Center Party increases this rate to 90 pst. In our alternative budget, we are increasing the leverage for child and youth action in larger urban communities by 20 million. kr. This scheme is aimed at 23 major urban municipalities. The number of children affected by poverty and poor growth and living conditions is higher in large cities than at national level. I'm going to add 2 million. kr in the case of children who have been expelled. The Health Declaration states: ‘The Government considers that the production of welfare services is in principle not very different from other services. The use of competition stimulates the creation of value added, better services and efficiency. It is therefore essential that competition become a horizontal element of public activity. Statutory rights to welfare services, combined with free establishment rights and price financing directly to the service provider chosen by the consumer, may contribute to ensuring such development.’;» Used for child protection, this blue-blue ideology shows itself from its worst side, because competition policy and short-sightedness operate in contrast to the stability and long-termity that children and young people need in vulnerable situations. They wouldn't have to worry about who wins the next offer. In 2013, the public child-resistance service bought about 1.3 billion. kr. On 3 November, Aftenposten announced that seven child protection providers in the Norwegian market had a total surplus before tax of 550 million. kr from 2009 to 2013. Most of these are large Swedish care agencies that have entered the Norwegian market and profit from Sweden’s being ahead of Norway in commercialising the welfare state. The blue-blue eyeballs color or no concern for this development. The Right Party and the Progress Party indicate in the setting that there is a broad political consensus that there is a need for better child protection. Yes, it is. But 550 million. kr that has gone to private pockets would have been very useful in such an improved child protection. The center part will sharpen the focus around this area. We will closely follow up both the bid policy of the government and the relationship with the private commercials to take the exchange. The centre party believes that there is a great need to keep the ideal actors in the child protection field. Today, the ideal entry is approx. 25 pst. of the provision of housing, and we call on the government to create a purchasing system that will last for the ideal providers. Unfortunately, we note that the cooperation agreements between the government and the non-profit sector still do not work as the intention was, and so the work started under red-green rule. Finally, I would like to inform you that the Central Party will vote in favour of the No. 1, 2, 3 and 5 that are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e495	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e498	We are now facing a major municipal reform, and the Central Party has clearly shown that they do not exactly honor this one. In this budgetary procedure, we are discussing the most vulnerable, the children who cannot trust their families. It should not be the big reality orientation to understand that small disciplines in municipal child protection, perhaps with only one employee, face major challenges in meeting children’s demands for legal certainty. At the same time, we see that joint municipal projects have not proved to be sufficient. What is the Central Party's response to the children who do not receive help and do not reach these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e505	I'm very much in agreement that we have to do anything to ensure that children need help, the help they need. I have followed the debate on the extent of municipal reform is the answer to the challenges of child protection. Obviously, some municipalities have too little professional environment. They need to work together to bring up the quality and secure the children they want to offer. But I've seen reports that show that there isn't automatically a good child protection in a large municipality. And there are reports that show that what Right takes for granted, that it is automatically a poor child protection in small municipalities, neither is it. In this case, as in many other cases, the community reform is often the answer to everything, but what is actually the question is not always as clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e514	The central party wants to have a social profile of parental pay, they say, but they do not know that with the most resources they contribute more – they contribute more. How, then, is the Central Party going to finance the social profile?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e519	It is quite correct that the Central Party does not agree with the government's proposal to increase the maximum price by NOK 100 per month to finance the social profile or less parental pay to those who think the least. We can finance this by not giving taxes to the richest, and by not cutting the wealth tax, which also goes to the richest. That is the real social priority of the Central Party budget. It is not possible in this field in isolation, but in fiscal policy, which shows that we are giving priority to Community solutions and not tax relief to the richest, as it is called.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e524	The representative was in charge of private actors. It is true that there is a good mix of private, non-profit and public suppliers within this field. These have been commissioned after open processes and quality is required and content is required. Then I feel that the representative believes it would be better if the money, which then goes to the private operators after the agreements were concluded, had been used in another way. So then I actually have two questions: how would this money be used instead? And what offer does the representative think the children would receive if they did not receive the private offer they receive today? It is not that there are free spaces around, that there is a lot of capacity, so I just wonder what offers the children should have instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e531	It's a very important question, how we organise the purchase of child protection services. I think it's a problem when we have such a high level of dividends from the private providers. When it's over 550 million. kr to some families in Sweden, I actually thought it was a problem, and it should be a problem for Stortinget that this is how we manage the money to go to the children. So I think it is also important to find out that it is not only the private commercial people who have free capacity. There are also private ideals that are ready to make greater efforts in the field of child protection, and that is where the heart of the Center Party lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e540	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e543	Norway is a good country to live in for most, but not for all. Unfortunately, there are large groups of children outside. There are many reasons why some children in our country live difficult lives. The left says that as a society we have to take responsibility for the children who live in outreach, either because of outreach is poverty or because of other reasons. All children are important and should have the same chance of a good life. The left introduced, in its time, the Castberg children's elves, laws that had just purposed to create more equal possibilities. In this budgetary cooperation with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, the Left has given priority to poor children and disadvantaged children. This is because no child is likely to have his or her childhood. Responsibility for the child’s future is not limited to parents. Consider the words ‘It takes a village to raise a child’. Left wants to discriminate in a positive sense. We have to give most to those who need it the most. Children who, for different reasons, need extra help and resources should receive it. Left wants targeted and differentiated support schemes. For the Left, this is a fair policy, a policy that leads to redistribution, and the Left thinks it's right to give more to those who have the least, whether it applies to pure financial support schemes that increase social assistance and redistribution of child welfare, or differentiation and free kindergarten and SFO to those with a weak economy. In this budget we were able to see through to kindergartens, and in the left we see it as a step forward that from 1 May next year reduced rates and free core time for four- and five-year-olds in low-income families are introduced. Kindergarten is an arena that means an enormous amount to exposed children and families, and it's a good learning venue. It can be an important area for building good mental health in children, and it can stabilise the care situation. We need good kindergartens. Kindergarten is a nice venue to see your children, and you can find help needs. Therefore, the professional competence of nursery nurses must be high. For the Left, it is important to work with the target set to improve the professional quality of the kindergarten, but we also see a need to increase the number of kindergartens, so that several one-year-olds can have a place to stay. In the budget agreement, we, together with the Christian People's Party, secure over 200 million dollars. kr extra for more babysitting areas and for a more flexible babysitting area. Unfortunately, a child's chances in life are very close to one option that you can't afford: what your parents have. A good upbringing makes us robust in meeting the challenges of life, and a bad childhood can put traces through a lifetime. The left priority is the prevention of care failure, including: by means of measures that help parents to increase their ability to care. Throughout the fall, the media have uncovered cruel things in which children have experienced evil things such as violence, assault and care failure. We can't tolerate this. For the Left, prevention is important. We want to bet on health care, school health and family protection, and municipal child protection needs a lot more resources. In our alternative budget, municipal child-responsiveness was boosted by 170 million. kr. The health station is in a unique position relative to the family and therefore needs to ensure good opportunities to provide early help. The same applies to family protection offices, which can mitigate conflicts between parents. In this budget, we have achieved a strengthening of health centres, school health services, family protection and child protection. But sometimes there's not enough prevention. Subjects of child protection and social affairs have a long time to deal with, and temptations are often broken. It's very serious for the children who stay for a long time in an uncertain situation. Members have been given funds in the conciliation that the Left and Christian People's Party have with the government, and there is the goal of bringing down the trial period. In the future, we also want a family court to be settled, and we also think that child law as a law can be an important answer. Children are entitled to help. The Left's alternative budget is a social budget with a total poverty rate of 2.5 billion. kr, and there is a budget that is willing to act for the weakest. It is a budget that shows the willingness to give priority to the important prevention. I haven't been given all the budget coverage, but I can name it very briefly: more money for austerity schemes to reduce child poverty and improve the conditions for children's and family centres. All of this has its background in knowing how important the first year of life of the children is, and so the budget must reflect it. We have to bet on the smallest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e565	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e568	The government proposes to launch in the budget a kindergarten portal where parents and others can easily find and compile information on kindergartens in Norway. All those who have applied for a place for their child – I have recently done it myself – know how difficult it is to find out what the daycare facilities in the neighbourhood are to give priority to kindergartens. Could the representative say anything about the Left's position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e575	I agree with the representative from Right that parents should have good and easy access to useful information about the childcare facilities in their municipality. I'm a baby's mother, too. For a long time, it has mainly focused on adequate childcare facilities, and I think that it must now be focused on quality and content. That is why in the alternative budget, the Left has a budget of 177 million. for the lifting of competences and the further training of kindergarten educators. Back to the kindergarten portal: As long as this is a system that is experienced as a help to make it easier for parents to orient themselves and find what is right for them, I'm pretty sure that Left will take a positive view of it. The goal must be to ensure good information between home and kindergarten, and the Left sees that a kindergarten portal must be a solution that is and will be experienced as a simplification in the everyday life of parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e584	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e587	Norway is one of the world's most equal countries. That's something I'm very proud of. But above all, I am proud of the conscious policy behind such a result, because an active policy for equality requires an active policy for families, for social life, for working life. And it's just by seeing these things in context and by having an active policy in this field that we have succeeded in something so unique worldwide as combining high birth rates with high professional participation among women. It is that the frameworks set politically also premise people's lives. The real opportunity to participate in the labour market for all — and thus also to be financially independent and self-contained, which should be a political objective — first came with the right to kindergarten for all young people. That's why there was an equality revolution. I'm afraid we're going to meet a future with less equality, and that's precisely because equality is not a law of nature, or something inconceivable, but something that depends on a conscious policy. When the policy changes, we also see setbacks. When cut in the paper commission, it does something about the distribution of unpaid work in the home, and it does something about the view of women and men in the workplace. If temporary employment becomes the main rule, it does something to dare to have children, to dare to get pregnant. No one will do it with open eyes in a temporary employment. When cash support increases, it contributes neither to pension points nor to own income, but to women staying at home, and when kindergartens become more expensive, it goes in the wrong direction if it is a goal that everyone should participate. In the case of outsourcing, there is an unsafe offer for those who need it, but also often worse employment and pension conditions for those who work there, and it is often women. We in SV will in the future. We want redistribution, and we want balance of power, we want everyone to have equal opportunities regardless of gender, regardless of ethnicity, regardless of class. That is why we are promoting an active policy on equality. We want to strengthen tripartite cooperation for equal opportunities in working life, we want to combat part-time work that women are struggling with today. Rather, we will provide the gender equality and discrimination Ombudsman with a strengthened instrument to deal with the discrimination experienced by pregnant women in particular today. We'd rather have a cardboard board, we'd like to increase the one-time noise, we'd increase the child's safety, and we'd like to protect the maximum price, while the quality of kindergartens is increasing and the recordings are increasing. Equality does not come of itself. Rather, we want to fight the challenges we face in today's society, because they exist, and we should rather stand together on this – and not almost alone on it – if an equal society and the cohesion of power and opportunity is an objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e600	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e603	SV has for a long time built up a profile where they were concerned with equality, as we heard in the article here, and not least about children's rights. I have to say it is with wonder that we in our committee sit time after time and miss the SV's voice. So they haven't given priority to the committee where just two of the SV's flags are handled. We think that's weird. We also find it strange that in their alternative budget there are no signs of social profile in the kindergarten sector. It has not been ensured by the devices they now propose, nor has it been ensured in the eight years in which they were placed in government. Is social cohesion no longer a matter for SV, and especially not for the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e610	I wonder if you have read the wrong version of SV's alternative budget – in which case I'll make sure you get the correct version sent – because in our budget, the vulnerable children are strengthened, and redistribution is the feature of the budget. That's exactly why we raise child welfare, that's why we protect the maximum price, that's why we strengthen local child protection. SV is the party responsible for the child protection promise, which has implemented the historic promise for vulnerable young people across the country, and we will continue to do so in our alternative budget. When we are dealing with vulnerable children, it is also important to mention that we have both poverty measures and that we strengthen the children's homes in our budget – not to have a good profile, but because we want to change people's everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e617	I record that I did not get an answer to what I asked for, namely kindergartens, social cohesion and the social profile. And since I have now read in the right alternative budget, I know there's nothing there. It is true that there are some suggestions on child welfare. The child's security is under discussion, because you're very doubtful whether it's accurate, and then we'll see what happens to it. But I think I repeat the question: in the case of children in kindergartens, and all the children's opportunity to be in kindergarten, what is the background that SV has gone away from their promises and many talk about social profile, also there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e624	We believe that the possibility for children to go to kindergarten is ensured through a low maximum price. We believe that it is unbalanced that children go to kindergarten, and that it is a good offer of good quality. That is why we are also raising education for the employees of the kindergarten. But I think this is a strange attack by a representative who actually represents a budget and a party that has gone into targeted attacks on the very most vulnerable in society, and that reduces the income of the poor. The example of reducing the children's plugin for disabled parents is thus horrifying. With regard to the distribution of committees, which I did not respond to instead, it's about us being seven representatives. I'm betting that we're going to be more with continued right-hand budgets with the social profile that we've seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e633	The article spent five minutes in a very comprehensive department with many, many important areas. We heard equality, equality, equality. It could seem like it was gender equality and not equal value, which the Progress Party is concerned with, that everyone should actually have the same opportunities. It was also claimed by the Swedish representative that equal opportunities should be available. All right. That's about. 10 pst. who do not take out their parental allowance because they have not had the opportunity to do so, and these families of children want to see the government. Who does SV think that the parental allowance is for? Is it only a question of equality, or is it the best of the children for whom this government believes it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e639	Few people doubt SV's broad involvement in this field in terms of both child protection and equality. We'll come back to this in the debate, I promise you. In the case of parental leave, it is about having the opportunity to care for the child for the first time, but it is also a question of how to set up a society. We know that women do most of the unpaid work at home, and it also affects working life. Women are considered the main caregiver at home, and it also affects the way employers view women. We want an equal working life, and we want an equal family life and social life. Then it's important that we share the problems that exist, and also that the children get to share in both parents' homework at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e648	The President recalls that co-representatives are addressed to third parties through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e651	In its alternative state budget, SV proposes to cut the entire allocation to the cash support. This means that approx. 25 000 children and their parents are deprived of a income of NOK 6000 per month, NOK 72 000 per year. This suggests SV, although they are of course well aware that several of these families live with low incomes. SV proposes to set up a waiting aid of NOK 6000 per month, but estimates this need to only apply to 1250 children. This is a $90 million grant. kr. SV proposes to grant 156 million SEK to build kindergartens, and SEK 156 million. kr corresponds to approx. 1200 places. The question then is: what about the more than 20,000 children who are deprived of cash support, and who do not receive waiting support and do not have kindergarten space? Is there any particular reason why SV in its arrangement does not set aside money for these too to go to kindergarten or get waiting support?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e658	SV sets aside money for waiting assistance that parents can receive while waiting for kindergarten. We also want to introduce two babysittings, so you don't have to wait for it. In addition, we want to spend money on a parental half-hour in order to be able to pay for the time squeeze that very many people experience is difficult, especially when they start very small in the nursery. In the case of cash support, many receive it just as a waiting benefit today. It should not be unknown to the Christian People's Party that some people pay babysitting private while waiting in kindergarten, through receiving cash support. With the Swedish policy, we balance the children's need for safe and good kindergartens, and not least a good income through, among other things. increase of one-off and child-rescue benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e665	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e668	I first want to thank both the Christian People's Party and the Left for a good budget agreement, which is important to have in place for the further work we are going to do in government. I would say that a good budget has become even better with this agreement. The representative Rigmor Aasrud started his post by saying that it now shows the direction and choice of this government. That is exactly what I fully agree with. This shows that this government is committed to family, to child protection and not least to prevention and early intervention. We'll equip the families for the future. Good parenthood with safe family relationships is the most important framework for child and youth growth. Safe parents create safe children. The government is very concerned about the prevention work done in the family protection service. Parents who struggle need support and help to resolve conflicts and to be good caregivers for their children. I am pleased that, through the budget agreement in Stortinget, we have put in place a strengthening of family protection in 2015. It is a historic investment in family protection in 2015. Good prevention is about catching up children who have difficulty, at an early stage, and that efforts are not allowed to wait. The cooperation between services that meet children in their first year of life needs to be improved. That is why I am pleased that the government has put in place a strengthening of the health centres. Some children and young people are subjected to acts far beyond our capacity to understand. This fall we have read day after day about serious delinquency and care failures in which, as a society, we too have failed. There are stories that have greatly affected me, and we have all been affected. We have to dry out talking about these issues. We must lift the debate, and we must have the courage to act. We all have a responsibility to prevent children from being subjected to violence and abuse, and we all have an obligation to report when something is suspected of happening. The government has presented a new action plan to combat violence and sexual abuse against children and young people. The action plan reflects the priority given to prevention and early intervention by the government. The action plan underlines the importance of the ability of adults meeting children and young people in their daily activities to discover those with difficulties and to know where to address their concerns. Everyone has a responsibility to notify, but it requires competence, and it requires courage and action. For me, it is important that we also take care of the children who have been subjected to violence, and I am very pleased that the Committee supports the government's proposal for a new grant scheme for this group. There is a need for measures to help children who have been subjected to violence and abuse to better mastery in their everyday lives. Even in Norway, children live in poverty. We know that work is the most important way out of poverty, but we need to ensure that children living in poor families have an equivalent offer to other children. The Government has therefore proposed to strengthen the Children’s and Youth Action grant scheme in larger urban communities. I am also very pleased with the budgetary agreement here at Stortinget, which further strengthens the effort to combat child poverty. A record number of children and young people have participated in the Holiday for everyone this year and have access to leisure activities in their everyday lives. I also think it is positive that we have had an increase in disposable social benefits at birth, and as the representative Toppe was involved, it is also an important element in the fight against poverty. Taking hold of challenges before they grow too big is good for the individual and it is good for society. So I am glad that we are now strengthening the centers for parents and children. We have to work to make it easier to impose relief measures where parents refuse to cooperate. The focus must be on the best interests of children and on the legal certainty of children. That's why we're going to give child protection a new tool that can give the children the help they need. Foster homes are one of the most widely used measures when child protection needs to place children away from home. That is why I am pleased that next year we will present a big message on foster home care in 2015. It will be an important work, and also an important field of efforts for the government. Finally, I would like to mention that the work on a clearer sharing of responsibilities between the State and the municipality for the protection of children will be important. We have to make sure that municipalities work with early efforts and prevention to secure all children in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e698	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e701	What equality initiatives is Horne the most satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e706	I'm glad that with this year's budget and next year's budget, we are continuing the good work done by the three equality centres around the country. At the same time, I am pleased that the government is now actively working with a gender equality message that will focus on the gender equality challenges in society today. The big message I'm working on now will take care of both working life, education and health. I see it's a challenge to women's health. The communication will also address violence and abuse, which are some of the biggest gender equality challenges in the world today. It's so important, and we have to fight this in Norway too. Equality is high on the agenda of this government, and the work on a common equality and anti-discrimination law will strengthen equality. So this government is betting on equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e717	The council says something about what kind of direction they want on equality, and they've chosen the direction. In the Workers' Party, we believe that there will be less equality, especially with regard to the paperwork and its reduction. What kind of action will the Council of State take to try to get more dads to take leave, in the scenario that one has now outlined, and that one is now cutting in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e722	There is a lot of good equality policy in good family policies, and for this government family policy is an important part of the gender debate. We've now seen that it's approx. 10 pst. of the fathers who do not withdraw the parental quota, which we want more parents to be allowed to withdraw from the exemption system sent to the hearing. I was in contact with a father who was a teacher, who was very doubtful that he could not be allowed to take over the weeks of Mother's life. My mother was self-employed and had no opportunity to take out those weeks. It went out on the family, but not least it went out on the children, who had to go either to day care or to kindergarten, while the family wanted the child to be at home with the family. With an extended exemption scheme, perhaps more fathers will have the opportunity to take over some of the weeks from their mother and also to be longer at home with their children, which is the best, when we know that the parental pension scheme exists for the children today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e730	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the budget agreement contains 35 million. kr for the purchase of premises from Aglo Children's and Family Centre in Stjørdal, Vilde i Horten, Solstrand in Haugesund and Sebbelow and Nanna-Marie in Oslo. Today we decide that Bufdir should use the offer from these establishments, so that they do not have to continue to consider closure because they are standing with unused sites. The centres have a number of enquiries from municipalities that show that there is a significant need for the services and capacity they have. These are strong professional environments providing support to parents who need additional support for different reasons. They help parents to become good enough caregivers for their own children. If this is not possible, they also accompany and clarify the child’s further needs for care. As I said, it is an important offer to parents who are struggling, and to children who suffer. Does the Council share the joy of the Christian People's Party that these five centres are secured by the purchase of permanent seats from Bufdir in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e735	I share the Christian People's Party's joy that we have now got extra money to bet more on parents and children's centers. It is an important measure that both the professional community and the parents want – to get a good monitoring, to be able to get in early and see what help they should provide to that family and to those children. This is why parents and children’s centres are an important field of action and an important measure that we need to take. Now I get a report on the further work on parents and children's centres, because, as the representative is also familiar with, this is a monitoring system that a total accumulation has said should be a municipal task. One sees that more and more municipalities are unable to take on the specialised monitoring task, so it is important that we go in and see if there should be government control of parents and children's centres. I am pleased that the bulk of the population has added extra money to their parents and children's centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e742	Your mother is nurturing, one as a son will get two hours more help from the public in the week than if one is the daughter of the family. It is the result of a major research project carried out by NOVA. Findings show that gender seemed to play a central role in the award of public services. This is in stark contrast to the objective of universal welfare schemes to be distributed according to their needs and not on the basis of gender. My question is what the Minister for Equal Opportunities will do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e747	Then I just have to say that exactly that report I don't know about, but of course, the user needs to be in the center, not what sex you have. That's why there's a report that I want to take with me in the further work, especially on gender equality, because it's important to make sure that it's the individual user's needs that are essential to get their rights in place, and not what sex you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e752	The councils are talking very much about the families. At the same time, we see that the government cuts in transfers to lonely dependants. We see that it is cut in the incomes of the poorest families with the worst health through the cut in the children's supplement to disability. And it's said very little – or nothing – about the families that have parents of the same sex. The LHBT focus does not exist. Therefore, my question is, when the Council of State says that an active family policy should be pursued, what families are they talking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e759	This government has an active family policy, and we do it for all families. A family is an institution that cares for children, whether there are two mothers or two fathers. Therefore, family policies are equally important no matter how the family is composed. What is important for the government and also for the cooperation parties is to ensure that families have flexibility, that they have freedom of choice in their everyday lives, so that they can arrange their everyday life as it suits the individual family best, without the need to have any clumsy hands to control that family. We have faith in flexibility and freedom of choice no matter how the family is composed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e771	Does the Council of State believe that poor families and families with lone parents or disabled parents have greater flexibility and freedom of choice in getting less income?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e776	This government has a historic commitment to the efforts of the Stoltenberg II government towards child poverty. We will also come back to Stortinget with an action plan based on the agreement we have with the two bourgeois parties. We strengthen leisure activities for those living in low-wage families, we strengthen subsidies for those living in big cities. We have also strengthened the grant schemes for those families who are low-paid, we have lower prices in kindergartens, and we have increased the one-off social benefits. This government is taking the problem of poverty seriously and is putting in place measures to improve the lives of children living in low-paid families. And then I think we all agree that the most important thing we can do to get people out of poverty traps is to get them out of work. It also shows reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e785	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e788	It is appropriate that we have this debate on the same day that the Nobel Prize is awarded, and it is distributed to two activists who have talked about the need for a safe childhood and not least that girls are educated. It should remind us that in Norway it is, after all, better than many other places, and there is a broad political consensus about the need for everyone to get the most equal start in life – a good starting point. That doesn't mean we're done. What we are discussing today is how we can develop a good start for everyone. The government's budget is a contribution to that. It is true that there is also a great effort in the budget to secure and create jobs. I think, and the majority of people think it's an advantage that parents also have a safe job to do. But there is also a great commitment to knowledge and a good start in life. There are three main priorities in the government budget which have also been safeguarded and strengthened through the budgetary unity of the majority parties. The first one is about quality. In the last ten years, there has been a strong political consensus that we need to expand the number of places in Norway for more people to access kindergartens. It's made sense, it's been right, and we've done that. The next major reform in the kindergarten sector is a quality and content reform. To do that, we have to bet on what's most important, and it's the people who work there. If we're going to have safe kindergartens, where parents can be sure that nothing wrong will happen when they deliver the most precious things they have, and if we're going to have kindergartens where children can play and learn through play on their own premises, it's about enough adults, and it's not least about enough kindergarten teachers. Today it's 40 pst. of those working in kindergarten who do not have the relevant pediatric competence. Many of them do an excellent job, but it's a goal that the number of competences should rise. We also know that we are missing approx. 4 400 kindergarten teachers. They're out there, but they don't work in kindergartens. We have to get these in, and we have to educate more. It is therefore important that the government's commitment to quality is formidable. The quality bet in kindergarten has almost doubled in two years – 60 million. kr is included in the draft budget of the year, precisely to provide more skilled workers and more skilled workers with the opportunity to take kindergarten teacher training and everything to give their children a good start in life. Then the budget is a social bet. There is a bet that SV leader Audun Lysbakken said in a debate that they had wanted for several years, and as SV then announced, before they presented their own budget, that they would support wholeheartedly about. There has been a consensus on this at least when you've talked about the need for a more social arrangement at the nursery rate. Why? Well, because families with the worst advice are also what you call the most price-sensitive, in other words, price can be an important barrier. That's why the government introduces a minimum standard of what to wear out of moderation schemes, precisely because we know that today's legislation doesn't work. 15 pst. of the municipalities do not have moderation arrangements, and there is good reason to believe, which has also been in question and replicons here, that some of the moderation schemes that are there do not adequately address this issue. The majority of the parties strengthen that system and have also decided to seek a free core-time scheme for children from low-income families. It's an important contribution to the social profile. The last contribution and the last main priority is more flexibility in kindergarten admissions. The government has fully compensated the municipalities in the budget for the withdrawal in connection with cash support, in other words, the concern in this room last year that the municipalities would have to reduce the child care budgets because the government had provided a budget where the withdrawal was too large should be gone this year. In addition, the majority of the parties have given sufficient funding to invest in 3,400 new kindergartens. Of course, we expect the municipalities to follow this up. Together, there is a strong commitment to kindergartens, to a good start in life, to quality, to several kindergarten teachers, to more flexibility in the recording and to facilitate the provision of a good social profile for municipalities. There is also a lot of money involved. If you see how much this will cost in 2016, it's going to cost you $790 million. kr more in 2016 than we're considering the increase in the maximum price this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e812	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e815	We have both when the government presented its supplementary proposal, and in revised discussion of the government's dimension within the kindergarten field, and in a line-up we had related to revised, so far as the Council of State realized that people were not particularly impressed with the budget that had been presented. Now the Council of State is presenting a budget of 800 new kindergartens. Then you negotiate with the government cooperation partners, and the budget is increased by more than four times. There is reason to ask: Was the Council of State present when the government dealt with the State budget? Why was 800 new places right when you admit that you have to double the quadruple when you are negotiating with your partners at Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e820	The sooner the Labour Party realizes that the new rule on the Storting is not that budgetary negotiations and all decisions are taken away from this Chamber, but that there is a large majority that determines the budget, the better it is. The budget in this Chamber will be completed once the four cooperation parties, the majority parties, have dealt with it. Then we laid a good foundation, with 800 more kindergartens, for a more flexible recording in the municipalities. The plurals strengthened it, and of course I'm glad. If you look at the budget of the Labour Party, it is much worse in many areas, for example. The Labour Party states that the system of financing private kindergartens must be reviewed. I agree, but the Labour Party has taken the consequences of this already – without a review. And then you cut off the equal treatment between private and public kindergartens, across what you said to do in Soria Moria I and Soria Moria II, and you do it without a good knowledge base. I think the Workers' Party should ask itself whether this is serious kindergarten policy from Norway's largest party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e829	I note that the Council of State talks away a very bad babysitting budget that he presented. The Labour Party does not grant money until we have knowledge. I am pleased that the Council of State ensures that we have knowledge of how to place the device for the private sector, but I think it is strange that you start by giving the money first and then acquire knowledge about it. But in a line-up between me and the Council of State on appropriations for the State budget, the Council of State said among other things. in the case of revised: ‘I am a little surprised that a representative presents it as if the government directs the budget appropriations for the kindergarten policy.’ What is it now that makes the Council of State think that his proposal of 100 million? Do kindergartens benefit, without earmarking or other leads?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e841	It is tempting to quote the representative Rigmor Aasrud when she was asked about moderation arrangements, where the Workers' Party is investing funds, but does not want a state system. At that time, the representative of Aasrud said, for approx. half an hour ago: “We have transferred the money to the municipalities and are confident that the municipalities will be able to follow up.” Then you can argue that sometimes you should label the ear, and sometimes you shouldn't. But why do we think that municipalities have the opportunity, and will use the opportunity, to build more kindergartens? Yes, it was, among other things. the round we had last year, where several municipalities said that with the withdrawal after the cash support, they would have to reduce their nursery offer. We listened to that. Now they're in the money again. It must also mean that, when enough funds are made available to 3,400 kindergartens with the majority budget, municipalities are now able to introduce more flexible admissions. What they have to take into account, on the other hand, is that if the Labour Party budget were adopted, it would be cut to the private kindergartens and all the children who go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e851	There is reason to remind Røe Isaken that today there is a regulation that allows municipalities to target their efforts against those who have the least, in setting up payment schemes for kindergartens. What the Council of State Røe Isaksen is now proposing is a joint arrangement that will apply to all municipalities. But it would have been an equally good arrangement to follow up – make sure that the municipalities followed up the rule that was actually there. It's an instrument that's quite accurate, if you use the methods you have to follow. Neither does Røe Isaksen answer my question: How are you to ensure that the kindergartens benefit from the increase that is now being proposed, when we know that municipalities have to cut care and cut school budgets? How do you ensure that the money goes to kindergartens, and not to cover other holes in the municipal budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e858	The municipal budget, the growth of free income, is in line with the growth that has been in recent years. In other words, it is a good budget. It has also received good feedback. I even saw that an commentator in the Kommunal Report felt that it was rare to see a council of states subcommunicate how good a budget was. So it was the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation Jan Tore Sanner. So that doesn't exempt the municipalities from making priorities. But the Biggest and the Biggest have given them a huge incentive, by adding funds to 3,400 new kindergartens, just like we usually do. So I guess it's just to say that the Workers' Party is also a little inconsistent with the question of what should be earmarked, and what should not. I guess we can admit that we're all on the Storing and in the government sometimes – that sometimes we're ear-marking it, and sometimes we're not. We have chosen to create a new national system, precisely because today's moderation systems are not working. It has not been chosen by the Workers' Party – they have chosen to deprioritise national governance in the weakest families with the worst economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e865	I think it's very nice that the Council of State is talking about quality in kindergarten, and that you want to increase the quality of kindergarten. I think it's great that he says it's important with more adults and more kindergarten teachers. We know that in 2013 we lacked 4,400 kindergarten teachers. My question is, how did the Council of State intend to do that? Is there a standard of manpower the Council of State is thinking about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e870	There's two main ways to do this. One is through the inside of the bet on quality and content. The core of that bet is several kindergarten teachers. One important way to do this is to ensure that several of those who are already in kindergarten, who have chosen to work there, have the opportunity to continue their education as kindergarten teachers. That's an important bet. So that's the one. The second is the standard of manpower, as stated in the government statement that we should have by 2020. To use a parallel in these Christmas seasons, it's not a "don't open before" date, it's not like Christmas presents, that you can't open them until Christmas Eve. It's completely possible to do it before, and it won't be against me if we get it to, even if it's 2020 we're dealing with. It also means that it is important that the Storting should give priority to quality and kindergarten teachers. Priority should be given to space, priority should be given to accessibility, but it is also important to give priority to quality, to more kindergarten teachers and to the content of children in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e879	I liked to hear that the government wants a quality and content reform in kindergartens, that's very good. It's a lot of competence for those who work there, and it's right. Governments are talking about getting more young people to choose the profession and, if necessary, a recruitment code when the time comes. One area that isn't mentioned here today, but as it says in the budget, is that there's a very big drop-out of preschool teachers, that only 52 pst. by all those who have trained kindergarten teachers and are under retirement age, working in kindergarten. It's an extremely high number. If everyone who was actually kindergarten teachers worked in kindergarten, it wouldn't be a problem today. So my question is, what will the Council of State do to get more of those who don't work in kindergarten, who are qualified, to work there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e886	Let me first admit that there is no simple answer to that. If that was the case, we could spend 10 million. kr or something like that to get it done, we would have done it a long time ago. I believe, on the other hand, that some of the keys are in some of the numbers we saw in connection with one of the recruitment campaigns that the previous government had to get more into kindergarten teacher training. It shows that most people think it's a very important job to work in kindergarten, but when you ask if it's a professionally demanding job, the number of people who answer yes drops a lot. So I think it's incredibly important to show that working in kindergarten obviously requires you to be happy with children and like to be with children, but it's also a demanding job, it's a subject to be a kindergarten teacher. The fact that there are exciting professional challenges there, I think can be a way to lure back, and that's something we'll try to reinforce through, for example. work on the revision of the framework plan. I must say that there is probably also a gender dimension here that I signed should discuss more closely with the Minister for Gender Equality as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e892	Governments have shown long-standing commitment to children in a vulnerable situation. There may be new and high requirements for the competence of kindergartens to meet these vulnerable children. We in the Left are wondering if the Council of States can elaborate a little bit on how to solve it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e897	Terje Rød – The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e900	President, it's not the first time I've been called Terje Red Larsen. [[muttering in the hall]] Thank you for a good and very big question. That means I have to pick a little bit. Let me point to two things, at least. We have recently presented an action plan against violence in close relations. We also have close contact with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Justice on violence against children. It is clear that the warning regime in the kindergarten, i.e. that the kindergarten is saying off, and that there is a close connection between the kindergarten and the relief services in the municipality, is absolutely crucial. The second thing I want to do is to do the language work. There is enough reason to fear that if you can Norwegian poorly, simply, and have a poor Norwegian exit point at home, it will also be harder to discover or get in touch with the auxiliaries if you need them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e909	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e912	The government's budget and the negotiations between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left here at Stortinget have given us a very good budget for 2015. The budget also has clear priorities and important initiatives for this framework area. Mr Tønder has summarised many of the good measures, and I would like to say a little about kindergarten. This year, too, the budget will enable the kindergartens to raise their staff's skills. There are challenging weekdays for the employees of kindergartens, and we see that new challenges are emerging. These are situations that require knowledge and training in order to best observe and detect children and events that need follow-up. 60 million. kr is set aside for the enhancement of competence. Of course, this is also linked to the desire of the four cooperation parties to pay even more attention to the content of day-care centres. The quality and content of kindergarten are in the best hands of this government and the budgetary cooperation that is now in the UK. Another very important signal is the willingness to prioritize access to as much as possible in kindergarten. We'll do that through two tracks in this budget. First of all, we finally get a social profile on the parental payment in kindergarten. This profile was further reinforced by the agreement here on Stortinget. Through this, we give a handshake to those who initially have the least, so that children, regardless of their social status, are given the possibility of kindergarten — and through the social training and common starting point for further education and social life. A good start in life is a very valuable touch to those families that have the least resources for everyday life. Such a commitment to a social profile and social cohesion has been long sought by many teams, and it is now in place from the second half of 2015. The second important track is the availability of nursery facilities wherever the child is born. A birth planning to be correct in the allocation of nursery places is far from the family policy that the government wants, and even if one should deal with the Workers' Party's spice trial last year with two admission dates, this will not be the solution that gives freedom to families neither with regard to family planning nor with the move to new places and duties in families with children. The babysitting budget has been increased by 307 million. kr to increase the flexibility of the recording by enabling the establishment of 3,400 more kindergartens. These are places that are crucial for maintaining a flexible admission in the municipalities that already have it and for new municipalities to establish places that provide the population with a flexible offer. This is a bet that gives municipalities the help they need to meet their own needs for solutions adapted to the inhabitants of the different municipalities. It is exciting to see how the Workers' Party has also done many of the same priorities in its alternative budget in kindergarten now that they are in opposition, but the surprise is that they do not think social cohesion is an important matter. Yes, in fact, I would say that such a priority across what the Workers' Party otherwise believes is their big cause, needs a very good explanation if they want credibility in terms of social cohesion in the future. Another aspect of the Workers' Party's alternative budget, which clearly demonstrates that ideology is more important than users, is the desire to reverse the approach to equal treatment of children in private kindergartens and children in public kindergartens. By reducing the grant to private kindergartens from 98 pst. to 96 pst. of public consumption, they give a clear signal that private operators will not have the same resources to carry out quality and content bets as public kindergartens – it will affect children in private kindergartens. The government will have a bet on kindergarten for the best for the children who are there, no matter who owns and runs the kindergarten. I will end by thanking the Christian People's Party and the Left for the cooperation to put in place a good budget for the children and those who need us the most, whether it's in kindergarten, in child protection or to help in a challenging everyday life for the families. The government has as its clear objective the sealing of the holes in the social network. We are contributing to that in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e929	The best thing for children and that childhood lasts a lifetime is easy to agree on. A lot of child protection works well, and many of the changes that have been made have resulted in better child protection. I want to praise again the many dedicated employees who every day do their job to make children grow up better, and who are trying to meet all the expectations we politicians have for the service. What we're hearing about is, of course, all the things that don't work out, because the majority get help. But there are too many shortcomings. Time and again we hear about the events that get tragic outcomes because someone doesn't do what they're supposed to do, or follow up. We have to do something about that, it's everybody's responsibility. I am therefore very pleased that the ear-marked child protection positions, which the red-green government started under the Child Protection Lift, are continuing. That's absolutely necessary. Because it's in the municipalities where the kids live, and that's where the effort has to be done primarily. The budget strengthens national child protection and family protection. It is good, but it is important that municipal child protection is also a priority. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party was able to provide for it. In its budget, the Labour Party has increased the income of municipalities by 2.2 billion. more than the co-operation budget because we put the community ahead of taxation. It would give the municipalities more room for action and further strengthen the service – even more young people would be helped. But jobs are not enough, knowledge and skills are necessary. That is why, in the Workers' Party, we will provide employees with better knowledge in order to take the difficult conversation, which may be crucial for the offer to be made – the so-called child talk. It is important if children are subjected to violence or abuse. I remember that it was also important for the position when they were in opposition, but they removed it last year with a pen stroke. Unfortunately, the need is no less today. It is as much needed as the scope survey we still want and is now to be investigated by the government. We think it's going to start, so we're re-prioritizing 3 million. kr, which together with the 500000 DKK for which the government has committed pre-work, will be able to raise 3,5 million. kr – a good start. The Labour Party is not against children who are exposed to violence getting good experiences – they deserve it. But 11.5 million. NOK for a project that has not yet started, and we do not know the scope of it, we think we can start a little more carefully – with a start of 5.5 million. kr. Repriorities are available to detect rather than repair. Good child protection is also a means of providing a good and safe environment for the family. Family protection is strengthened, and that's good. However, it is important to take measures to prevent crises rather than to enter when crises have arisen. Good health care services, kindergartens, schools, work without the uncertainty of temporary employment, restrictive alcohol policies and gambling policies are factors that strengthen and ensure a good childhood and a stable family life. Here the jam has me the sitting government enough of the bodies in the barn that they might want to look at, and that they can remove or change for a better childhood for everyone. Because, as you know, everything is related to everything. Good foster homes for those who need them and institutions where necessary are also an important part of child protection. The Labour Party believes that money budgeted for young people and their welfare should be spent on them and not on profits and large withdrawals. The Labour Party therefore hopes that the tendering policy will be taken into account, leading to large withdrawals, so that we will not hear about the large benefits of child protection. I am addressing the suggestions we have made in the vote, which have been omitted by an incurrency – they have been taken up in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e948	The representative of Sonja Mandt has taken up the suggestions to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e951	I am pleased that the representative Mandt and the Workers' Party are still holding on to a good child protection, it can at least work this way after the last posts. This government wants child protection for the best of its children, but there are challenges. There are 200 municipalities with fewer than 5000 inhabitants who are struggling with the competence of child protection and who are struggling with good child protection in the municipality. Over 10 pst. children living in such a municipality with less than 5000 inhabitants. There is a large number of children registered in child protection today. Although the capacity has increased in child protection, we see that the numbers are still too high. This government wants a new direction in child protection, or at least to reinforce the direction. We want to upgrade child protection in the 70 small municipalities involved in child protection cooperation across municipalities. We need good solutions, we need a structural change, and we need professional competence. We want to give a great professional boost in the municipalities, we want a closeness to the users, and we want a closeness to the children – just to prevent child-restraints. There are many tragic events within the area of child protection. We still see it in the media: we see children who get beaten, children who suffer, children who starve – and even children who starve in the heel. We need robust child protection, where everyone takes responsibility. Those who stand outside and watch, those who work in child protection, and not least we, as politicians, have to take greater responsibility. There are challenges in child protection. It also has to be seen by the majority of the Biggest, and from the point of view of the debate, it seems like you're doing it. This government has great ambitions for a clear and comprehensive leverage for child protection. The work of child protection must also be based on the needs of vulnerable children. The restructuring and the lifting of competences must be seen in the context of the new municipal structure. It is necessary to provide for a structure that counteracts the vulnerability of small municipalities. This government believes that changes in child protection must be implemented in a way that ensures employees and, in particular, ensuring that children — that they receive the assistance they need — and that they also see the needs of vulnerable children. This government strengthens municipal child protection, but at the same time wants to have a review of the county council members. What we're getting signals about is just part of the measures. We want to look at foster homes, and feedback we get there is that there are differences in municipal and county foster homes. At least there should be no distinction as to whether a foster home is run by the municipality or county municipality. At least they should have the same legislation to govern. This will result in good help for young people and their families. Not least: when we make our decisions based on the knowledge we have, we get good child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e970	The government parties, together with the cooperation parties, have come up with a good budget, and the colleague, Mr Tønder and Mr Harberg, have been involved in a great many of the areas. I want to talk a little bit about an area that intervenes in a lot of the lives we live, namely consumer policy. The aim of consumer policy is to give consumers, you and me, a strong position. We have rights, but we have to know them or get them presented in a simple way. We have knowledge, but further and necessary knowledge must be readily and intuitively available. When we know our rights and have the necessary knowledge, we can make informed choices. Of course, that's up to what you choose, but the ability to make the good choices is related to the knowledge and the rights you have. If you want to choose unhealthy or expensive, you have to do it, but you have to have the knowledge, so that the choice is informed, so that the choice is conscious. A third important area of consumer interest is a good and effective solution to disputes. Unfortunately, the meeting has not been between you and me as consumers, and a supplier has always been completely non-scrupulous. One may be unlucky, be exposed to someone with dishonest intentions or simply disagree with whether this is proper treatment or not. We have a system for this that works well in very many areas, but still there are areas that need to be resolved in the way of justice, which both burden the judiciary unnecessarily and, not least, appear to be a major obstacle to an unfortunate consumer. Non-judicial dispute resolution is an absolute preference, and it is therefore gratifying that the government is striving to strengthen and extend these arrangements. In order to have a good consumer policy, it is also important that we set a good example ourselves. The undersigned is never quite sure whether it is the Consumer Ombudsman or the Consumer Council, or perhaps even the Market Council, I will send the e-mail to when I feel that my consumer rights have been challenged. It is therefore also gratifying to see that the government has started work on assessing the whole of the consumer policy instrument at the invitation of the majority of the Committee in its budget last year. We need to clarify the ombudsman role for consumers – we need to renew and simplify it in this area as well. We live in a reality where the vast majority of consumers have high purchasing power and high wealth. At the same time, the complexity of the market is greater than ever, and it is demanding to have and get an overview. This underlines the importance of available information, so that competition becomes clear, the choice is justified, and thus consumer power becomes real. Given that I as a consumer know my rights and have knowledge of the offer, it will contribute to the proper functioning of competition in the market. Information is often available, for example: food prices are closely monitored by the press. Other information is structured through public portals such as Finansportalen and Tannhealthportalen, portals that are still being developed. The more complex the offer is and the more elements the providers package into their offers, the more difficult it is for you and me to brief us. It's important that we make sure that we get a real basis for comparison, whether it's about changing insurance policies or buying a bread. There will always be a balance between what needs to be collected and offered through public portals and what the market itself can provide by providing information services, but a common denominator is that the more complex the offer is, the worse the market-provided information regarding the ability to compare different products directly, and that is what needs to be done if informed choices are to be made. At the same time, we need to be careful not to create information portals for the sake of the information portals. Here too, we must give priority. Dangerous substances in children's clothing, poison in food we eat, obvious attempts to complicate product packages in order to take a higher price than necessary, or what becomes my future pension, are good examples of areas where we need information. It is not as critical to know whether the bread costs 50 cents more or less, or whether one TV channel is not exactly in that channel package. We must give priority to the important thing. The government has an active consumer policy, which will prove to be more and more important in an increasingly complex society. With good framework conditions and rights for us consumers, with the provision of information that enables us to make informed choices, and with effective dispute resolution where necessary, we provide a strong position for consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e989	A good budget has improved, several representatives of the government parties have claimed from this pulpit. Well, the feedback on polls probably suggests that most people still see some potential for improvement in this budget. It has been claimed from the government parties that this is probably due to the fact that a good enough communication job has not been done or has not been able to get people to understand the excellence of the measures proposed in the government budget. Well, I think it's about the government parties bombing the very social nerve in Norway: the proud Norwegian tradition that the community should stand strong, that everyone should contribute, that we want a society with little differences between people and a policy that protects the family. Therefore, it would have been gratifying if the representatives of the government parties, and in particular government councils, when asked questions in the Stortinget, could show some kind of humility and greater willingness to respond properly to them than that, for example. Councillor Røe Isaksen made in his replies, or lack of such, to the representative Rigmor Aasrud in the change of line earlier in the debate. When we are asked what are the reasons for Norway's success as well as we did compared to most other countries during the financial crisis and the challenges we met there, most of us respond that it is the very foundation of employment policy that is the basis for us to have achieved as well as we have, and have Europe's lowest unemployment, with strong tripartite cooperation, with a policy that facilitates a high degree of freedom for the family and, not least, the ability to combine work with caring. I would argue that family policy is one of the pillars of the policy that has ensured that Norway has largely benefited from the fragile waters that we had during the financial crisis and in the wake of it. For the Workers' Party, it has been a red thread up throughout our history to have a policy that contributes to work for everyone. It's about self-respect and the ability to support yourself, and then it's essential that we also have a policy that makes it possible to combine having a job with having a child. It is also important that everyone is given the opportunity to participate, and that one has a policy that facilitates better opportunities for women in work and better opportunities for men in family life. That is why we need a policy that protects the family and that contributes to security and stability, with the ability to make free choices for themselves and their families and to plan the future. Now we see a development in which the government facilitates a policy that contributes to further pressure on the family, which will reduce the freedom of each family, the ability to make your own choices and the ability to plan the future. We have seen proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act to lead to more temporary jobs. We know that there is a proposal to open up Sunday open shops. We know that government parties want more use of overtime. They provide for less fatherhood for the young and more use of cash support. I think this will lead to a changed landscape in the working world and in family life. It also increases the uncertainty of the future for a very large number. We see that there is already a strike and announced new actions. Today, Erna Solberg is out saying that this cannot come as a surprise, because this is a policy that the Norwegian people have voted for. I guess they're asking if the Norwegian people agree with that. That's why I also have to challenge the Christian People's Party, which is a party that I experience in every context foreshadows that they are concerned about the family's woe and well: how can you sit and defend a development that puts further pressure on the family, as the government puts up with? They should in fact recognise that this is a government that plans to implement measures that will lead to less freedom for most families in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1004	That women and men should have equal opportunities both at work and at home is a matter of value. It's about what kind of family and work we want. It's about economic autonomy and equal opportunities. Women's relationship with the labour market is important for the Norwegian economy and a support bar in the Norwegian welfare state. This is why the NHO, Spekter and other employers’ organisations have sat in the driver’s seat in the fight for, among others. to maintain the feather quota. They will be involved in a modern and targeted gender equality policy. They know from experience that equality in the workplace obviously does not come about by itself. The whole community has an interest in a family-friendly working life, which makes it possible to combine jobs and children both for mother and for father. We have come a long way in the gender equality field in Norway, but much remains to be done. Men and women do not have the same power. Men and women don't have equal pay. Men and women don't have the same pension. Men and women do not have equal work effort, either inside or outside the home. Men and women do not share parental responsibility. Most of the remaining gender challenges still affect women, but also men experience gender issues. Among other things, we see that after a break in life, more fathers experience less contact with their children than mothers do. More boys than girls complete secondary education without completing. I have to say that it is sad to be a spectator of our new government, which reverses important equality promotions rather than strengthening them. Reductions in paperpapers are mentioned many times, in addition to a puzzled effort for kindergartens, the weakening of job protection and rotational arrangements which may result in a strong increase in sacred services. The big loser in government's lack of efforts in gender equality is the families, it's the working life, and it's society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1018	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. With a little cooperation with the Chamber, the President intends to launch the debate on Framework Area 2 before the meeting is interrupted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1021	A single judicial committee called for better and broader statistics in relation to children exposed to violence and violence, during the treatment of the grubbing-up report on violence in close relations in May 2013. The Stoltenberg II government provided a budget of 3.5 million. for an extensive investigation, which was a response to the request of the Judicial Committee. These funds cut out the new government, into large and strong reactions from the opposition party and organizations such as the Red Children and UNICEF. In November, the Council of State presented Horne and the government’s action plan ‘A good childhood lasts its life’. This is a plan full of good intentions, but unfortunately there's also a lot of it. It contains many measures and objectives that I believe are very important and very good, but it does little when it is stated explicitly on page 11 of the Action Plan that these measures will be covered ‘within the current budgetary framework’ and ‘when there is budgetary coverage’. In other words, we will not see the very great promise or implementation of this in 2015. The Horne State Council shall be commended for including the scope study in the action plan. It doesn't come with money, it's a trial plan, but it should be commended for being in. But this I thought is too late. Why don't you start with a trial plan last year, if there was one thought necessary? We could be closer to the goal now, it wouldn't be for this inertia. I mean that we shouldn't be patient on behalf of children subjected to violence and violence. Strengthening children's homes is important, and the Labour Party has proposed a number of measures that have been adopted to do just that. But the waiting times at the children's houses are and will be a challenge. I think it is a little special that the Horne action plan has a lower ambition for waiting time than the judicial proposal suggests. For in the judicialproposition, the objective is to reduce the waiting time to 30 days, while the action plan, presented one month later, has 40 days as a target. Then I wonder what happened this month. And is this a development we're going to see more of, that ambitions are being reduced as time goes on? In any case, the requirements of the law are very clear: 14 days in the courts of children subjected to sexual assault. What seems to me to be a collective judicial committee is important to remain the goal. It's an invisible war going on every single day. Selected in close relationships, there is a large and wide sense of attention. These aren't special things, this is unfortunately everyday crime, and I want to raise state councillor Horne, which I think is doing a good job in the field and is very committed to bringing along the other councils. Horne will coordinate this work, and I strongly urge her to speak with Minister of Justice Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1034	Many of us have been treated badly in their growth. The adults couldn't do better. A lot of trust is broken, and we need to be safe in adults again to connect to them. Then we have to be able to relate to the least possible adults and have adults with us over time. We're asking for help on this. It's our most important chance of a good life. This is from the Children's Protection Professionals, which is part of the Change Factory. Today, when we are discussing child protection, it is the children and the young people who must be at the center. Children's protection is nothing different than other children. Children need love, they need connection, and they need stable adults. It sounds so obvious, but it's not a matter of course. Research confirms that links with caregivers are essential for the development of children. It's the foundation that gives children good adult life. The Raundalen Committee, in its ‘Better Protection of the Development of Children’s Rights’ study, has explained to us the importance of early involvement in the development of children. Recent research shows that insecurity can be a barrier to children’s emotional and cognitive development. When SV was in government, we made sure to launch a large child-rescue lift. By earmarking positions for municipal child protection, we made sure to lift child protection, because time with the children, capacity and good manpower is essential for the children to have good follow-up. With the SV's alternative budget, there will be a total of 1,500 new posts, if we look at the child protection promise we started in government, from 2011 to 2015. That's $300 million. kr in our alternative state budget, for what needs to be better and more stable contact with the children and young people who need it. For the day, I am not primarily at Stortinget, but I am studying for child protection education at the University of Oslo. That's why I know how important it is to strengthen education. Under the red-greens, SV ensured that child protection training was given a boost. Now, in our budget, we are proposing the same level of social retraining. Finally, this budget is about who we are listening to. We'll be seen and heard, yelling at former children's protection. And we have to do that, it's our duty as elected representatives. I wish that the budget we are discussing today reflected that reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1053	For SV, it is important that Community funds are used to address societal challenges and to meet real needs. When funds are allocated in this room to those who need the most, to vulnerable groups, to children who need safe adults and better care, it is important to know that this is also where the money goes. Unfortunately, we see that players are increasing their profits, and that funds that would have been used to strengthen vulnerable children rather strengthen child protection barons. Therefore, SV considers it important to distinguish between ideal and commercial and to protect public and non-profit actors. We think it's not the same who's doing a service, just the task happens. Because we see that it's not given that the funds go where they're going. For the same reason, we also believe that it is important to change the funding model for kindergartens. Telemark research shows that there is an unfairness in today’s funding. That's well documented. It also shows that when private and public kindergartens are to be compensated in the same way when they have completely different expenditures, large sums of money disappear out of operation and over to private profit. When it is well documented that private kindergartens save money on having lower pension schemes for employees, and that in this way kindergartens are overfunded, action should also be taken. That is why SV will change the funding model, so that municipalities have to impose equivalent pay and working conditions in private as in municipal kindergartens. This budget adds to a reverse redistribution: more to those who have enough, and less to those who could need more. The Right and Advance Party voters will get more than enough even if we close the suction pipe out of the common fund and make sure that the public funds allocated in this room actually go to the smallest and to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1066	The equality does not come about by itself. What we are now seeing is that we have a government that has chosen to provide a budget for measures to promote more equality in Norway – unless there is a federal quota, cut off women’s organisations, cut research into gender equality, more expensive kindergartens and proposals to amend the Labour Environment Act – which will hit women hard. We see that the clock is turning the wrong path in gender equality policy, and it seems quite illustrative to the government's vision in this area when they have chosen to withdraw the big-time message, which is called equality, does not come about by itself. For SV, it has been important to provide an alternative state budget that considers equality in all fields. We think of equality in taxation policy, in justice policy, in foreign policy and in labour policy. It is necessary for it to move in the right direction, so that women and men are actually given equal opportunities. If you are to take the gender equality challenge seriously, you have to start working. There are many of the reasons why women and men have different opportunities today. In working life, there are different distributions of pay, power and time use between women and men. In the government, SV was able to change Norway in the right direction by creating more equality as we expanded the feather quota, so that we see that mothers and fathers can share work more fairly at home and abroad. The family quota has given more freedom to a lot of people. Now when the government cuts the birth rate, it tears down some of the foundations that have made us a more equal country in recent years. Today, we see that many women experience that they need to reduce their working hours to make the family cabal go up. The solution that many in the early childhood experience that time is too short cannot be that women generally have to go into pay and working hours – and with it losing power and influence both at home and outside. The solution must be that we, who are sitting on the Stortinget, help to increase the ability to combine working life and family life. Therefore, we propose that toddlers should have half an hour of reduced working time each day for the first half of the year after kindergarten start, in order to ensure a smoother transition between parental leave and working life. This is much better equality policy than cash support, which pays parents to be out of work and children to be out of kindergarten. I record that the Council of State Horne in the city highlighted the importance of participation in the labour market. Well, it doesn't happen with any more cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1079	The gender equality — state feminism — is one of the main reasons why the work line works in Norway. Now we have a government that attacks and weakens equality and weakens the line of work, and that appears to be completely unwillful, committed and initiative in gender equality policy. Not only do they sit quietly in the boat, they also attack and reverse equality in many areas. In addition, they also narrow down the concept of equality and the family concept. It is the UN's Day for Human Rights today, and there is a major campaign going on in civil society about family values. That campaign just points out that all families are different, and that all families are equally worth it. That's why it's sad that the council of state from the pulpit here today at the same time characterizes the family as a unit that takes care of children. Another area of equality in which the government fails is in the LHBT policy. This was a focus of the red-green government and the red parties in the last eight years, and we strengthened the living conditions and equality of LHBT people through gender-neutral marriage law, and by prioritising this in foreign and development policy. We gave priority to the fight against hate crime. We established a resource center for LHBT issues. We presented our own action plan, not only from the government, but also around the municipalities. We weren't, and we're not at all in the target when it comes to the rights of LHBT people. Bullying, violence, hate crime, lack of transparency – poorer living conditions are still the reality of many in this group. What is this government's answer? Nothing – no will, no initiatives, no visions. But not only that – you cut funds and measures in the budget. We need a government that is forward-looking in terms of this group's rights. We need a new plan of action from the government that continues the policy of the red-green government. The Labour Party has proposed this, and we are going to vote on that proposal today, but I want the Council of State here today to respond to whether she will present a new action plan with measures specifically targeted at the LHBT Group.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1092	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud is currently the last speaker. We're five minutes in overtime. This is going to be fine, the president thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1095	I think there is reason to allow us to debate a budget that is important to most people in this Chamber. I need to comment on some of the things that have been said about private kindergartens. It is stated in the bill from the Ministry of Knowledge that almost two thirds of children with special needs go to municipal kindergartens. As the representative Bergstø explained, Telemarksforschung has presented a report showing that private kindergartens have an average of 15 p.m. less costs than the municipal authorities. Then I think it is quite remarkable that you do not see that you should spend the time going through this until you spend even more money on the private kindergartens. The Labour Party has invested more money to the municipalities, so that you can get an even better social profile in the local schemes used to reduce child care rates for those who need it. But then we believe that the municipalities are the best ones to do it. Then you can also look at the living costs, the housing costs you have, and get a more accurate system. I'm glad that Councillor Horne is concerned with family policy. But it's a little strange that the government provides less predictability for those who are going to work, more temporary employment and no predictability of when those who have small kids get kindergarten. We need more business days. There must be several days where you can buy alcohol. I have doubts about this in common contributes to a better family policy. But at least that will make us have to repair more in retrospect. Then I record that the Council of State does not take over the heavy objections that have come from a number of professional bodies regarding the feather quota and the changes that are now being proposed. The Council of State refers to the fact that she has taken a casual person who has had problems with the scheme, and allows it to govern instead of heavy, professional input from the employees’ and employers’ organisations. It doesn't testify to a government council that takes knowledge seriously. The fact that gender equality is still a priority task in the department shows her response in the lines of action here, when the Council of State has not received the report showing that daughters receive significantly less help than sons when it comes to parental care tasks. So equality policy is and remains a secret in the state council's portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1108	I'm going to try to answer some of the questions that have come up here. First to the scope study: let it be clear that this government also agrees that we need more research. We need more knowledge. But at the same time, the scope study that the previous government had set up was impossible to carry out because one has to look at the ethical aspects of this. If you are to ask children under the age of 12, you must have the consent of your parents. That's what we're doing right now, so we can be sure that we can get a range study that's going on. I have launched this action plan – an action plan that will now be more concrete. It is targeted and more obligatory than the action plan of the previous government. I just want to point out that in the previous government's action plan or strategy, childhood does not come back – I do not remember the side numbers altogether – it is very clear that the government has to come back to the follow-up to the measures in the ordinary budgetary processes. That's how it tends to be. Several people have been busy with equality here. I have to say that I was a little surprised that both the representative Liadal and several others have a similar parenthood, that boys end up in high school, involuntary part-time in terms of health and tripartite cooperation. They have been in government for eight years without making any changes to this. It's taking hold of this government now. We're working on a case of equal parenting, because dad is just as important in children's lives after a breakup as he is before the breakup. It's important to have good tripartite cooperation, which we're working on. The gender equality message coming next year focuses on women, health, violence, professional participation and education. So it's going to focus on the things that are the real equality challenges we have today. Finally, with regard to the exemption system: Rigmor Aasrud has read the hearing opinions. Then I hope that the representative is also aware that the Federation of Enterprises is a large employers' organisation for all the sole proprietors' companies and small businesses who have taken a positive view of the exemption scheme that the government has had out at the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1121	The debate was then on Framework Area 2 under the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Knowledge. The cancellation cancels its meeting and starts again at 0 p.m. 15.30 with the debate on Framework Box 3, which concerns the Ministry of Culture. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11.41 --- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 3:30.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1138	The decision continues to deal with the case No. 2, 3 and 4 on today's map. We are now going to Part 2 of the debate on the budget chapters of Framework Box 3, which concerns the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1143	After being in Oslo City Hall, it's a little strange to start a debate on the state budget in Norway, but it's probably also part of what's important in democracy. A debate on the state budget in Norway today is about the direction the budget is going to take, about how we use the great opportunities we have as a nation. The government presents a government budget which it says has given Norway a new direction. For the Workers' Party, there is a wrong direction. Large tax cuts – mostly for people with billions – have reduced the allocation for cultural purposes. A 1.1 pst addition. does not in any way cover wage and price increases, even after everyone has to streamline with 0.6 pst. After several years of strong growth in the cultural budgets, the Stoltenberg government put down the Enger Committee. The study shows that a conscious commitment to culture over several years has produced results. The Enger Committee's investigation is also an important guide for further work on the development of the cultural field. The cultural survey also provides the basis for discussing policy differences in principle. On the one hand, it is a society in which culture is seen as something more than just culture — as a means of balancing social divides, as a contribution to people's living conditions, of systems that need to embrace both breadth and top, where politicians are involved in showing direction, and which help to promote the different cultural expressions. On the other hand, it is a more liberal product of thought, the ideal being that society and government are neutral, and where belief in the market is the most prominent. The state budget of the year adds in many ways to political adjectives in the field of culture. Economic priorities are left to a small number of persons making up the Board of Culture. Artificial judgement shall govern the work. Money shall be capable of being moved between genres, and items previously used to compensate for regional differences in offers shall now be subject to the same artistic judgements. So that's what this new word "arm length distance" means. As politicians, we don't care what the money is spent on. It has to be left to the experts. The best applications shall pass, other criteria not drawn up. The working party does not oppose the simplification of the grant schemes. But we believe that it is policy to divide the budget among the different cultural areas. We also believe that it is legitimate to think about how funds should be used and that public money should also be used to fulfil social purposes other than the purely artistic ones. There is a great deal of consensus that culture has a self-esteem. For our part, we believe that cultural assets such as theaters, operas and orchestra experiences should be made available to everyone. At the same time, we want to support different forms of cultural activity, which different groups themselves perceive as meaningful, and that we also reflect our diverse societies in cultural policy, while safeguarding our cultural heritage. For the Workers' Party, the cultural school bag, the cultural niche package and the cultural spaserstick were far more than symbol politics. It is the result of a political goal of bringing cultural offerings out and up to people in our society – not just to the few or to those who can afford it. The petty priorities of the government were put to the test when the proposal to remove the cultural spasm was presented. This is the very proof that no one in our society – absolutely no one – escapes when the big tax cuts are to be financed. The Minister of Culture has undoubtedly contributed to making cultural policy a political arena. Under the heading «Proliferation of Power», she reported early on that she wanted a debate on cultural policy. Yes, debate has become, but most about lack of ambition. This year’s census contained no mention of culture, nor of volunteering or sport – both of which are very important to all of us. A repetition of the debate area has been media policy, but for the second time, the Council of State has had to address the whole issue of the Stortinge in terms of both press support, VAT and NRK licensing. A year ago, the Minister of Culture said to the Evening Post: ‘Our freedom reform will also strengthen the cultural life of the regions. This will contribute to the dissemination of power and the setting of the agenda.’» Furthermore, greater freedom was to be created by creating a broader funding base for Norwegian culture. We also think it is great that individuals, foundations and businesses support for art and cultural purposes, but we cannot support a system where donors decide where to use public money. The gift-enhancing system does just that, and we have registered that it is not possible to explain whether the gift-enhancing system has produced more donors. That means that there are those who are already being sponsored, who get a little bit more, and that the difference between those who have rich and poor uncles gets bigger. Cultural policy, voluntary policy and sport have been given a significant place in the Workers' Party's alternative budget for 2015. We believe that cultural policy, volunteering and sport are also important, among other things. for economic development, for public health, for democracy and for integration. Our communities also need such efforts from the big community. Sport and volunteering need more than big words, they also need budgetary appropriations. There is every reason to praise the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have saved the economy for large parts of cultural life, volunteering and sports next year. A budget with a strong pull of the right has got a slightly slower turn. Despite numerous requests from Organisation Norway, the government and the Minister of Culture continue to contribute to weakening and reducing the importance of a politically wild gambling policy. A strong protection against gambling problems, a game policy that can be managed with rapid political intervention, combined with a surplus that contributes to well-developed health work, rehabilitation and local activities, clearly stands in the way of market forces and the desire of some to make easy money. No change shall challenge the exclusive right, repeats Widvey repeatedly — when it is just the opposite she does. Thinks the Council of State is serious about a turnover of 1.5 billion. kr, as proposed by the government when issuing licences for new lotteries, will not go beyond the financing of voluntary activities in Norway? Nope. And why are licences for foreign gambling companies to be issued? Is it to ensure the exclusive right model and its role in Norwegian society? No, I don't think so. If the exclusive right model were the objective, the Minister of Culture would have presented a scheme similar to that of the Finnish ESC for the longest time. That would mean tightening up the monopoly. But that's not the minister's plan. No, it's about liberalizing, costing what it's going to cost. A report from the Lottery Authority shows that there are over 20,000 problem players in Norway and 80 000 with moderate gambling risks. Would you believe that the number will be reduced in a liberalized gambling market? It is not a requirement to legally allow foreign players to enter the Norwegian gambling market — it is not compatible to limit gambling problems and there are no grounds for depriving local organisations of access to contributions to facilities and activities. Here it really goes wrong when obvious wisdom has to give way to market forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1189	The Labour Party has been in government for eight years. They've had a clear speech about cultural investment, and it's raising the budget and getting the big numbers in place. They have not been fully concerned with the certainty of the results, but achieved the figures by making technical regulations in the budget, so that entries that were elsewhere entered the cultural budget – and in that way they were very clear that they were the great saviors of Norwegian culture. This year, too, we have received a budget for culture with excellent arrangements. There's never been so much money spent on culture before. Nevertheless, Rigmor Aasrud is very clear that this is a terrible budget for Culture-Norway. I wonder if Rigmor Aasrud can explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1196	It's a pretty simple calculation, because if you go into the budget and look at the item "cultural purposes", it shows a growth of 1.1 pst. When we know that we have a price increase of 3.3 pst., it says something about this government's commitment to cultural purposes in the cultural budget. Once the Workers' Party has invested in culture, it's because we know that we're going to get to the culture, we have to build a rock. That's why we've been building institutions for many years now, and we've built up the free space, so there's more opportunities to practice its culture. And yes – we are proud that we have also had posts in other budgets that have been part of the cultural promise. The fact that you, for example, rates of being able to move Norwegian talents abroad through the travel assistance scheme that has been in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are precisely helping to make Norwegian talents visible elsewhere than in Norway. So our cultural budget is better, even though the government's budget has improved a little after the Christian People's Party and the Left have contributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1207	After eight years in government, the Workers' Party has begun to refer to itself as the big sports party. We've increased the key up to 64 pst., by 300 million. kr more for sport. We've done something about the VAT compensation scheme, $48 million. kr, something the previous government cut in until they left. We see that now sport does not suffer around the country as it has for eight years. How can the Workers' Party now start talking about itself as a sports party? What have you done to allow it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1214	I think the representative Thomsen is very aware that there has been a three-year escalation plan to get the funds up to the level that it is at now. It put the Workers' Party forward in the sports message, and I am happy that the government is now following it up. In the case of plant tax appropriations, some 60 million have been committed. kr in the last few years. Fortunately, due to good municipal economy, several facilities are being built, and we saw early on that there was too little allocation at the plant tax post this year. That is why we have already proposed money in the revised national budget. The government parties wouldn't be in on that. I'm glad there's going to be some more money now, but there's still a reduction in VAT, and to next year you're deliberately budgeting that there's a reduction in VAT. So, yes – The Labour Party is proud that we have invested money to cover the aftermath of sports facilities. It should also have provided for the parties involved in all discussions around the Olympic Games. It became very clear in that debate that there were many municipalities that needed money to cover the aftermath.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1225	The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party fully agree that public support for cultural life should be at a high level. However, I am a little more uncertain about the Workers' Party when we come to this with private funds. The Christian People's Party does not look at private resources into cultural life as dirty money, but we see that it can help make the cake bigger. So I'm a little uncertain about what the Workers' Party thinks about this. Let me take a very concrete example, and that is the government's talent initiative, which should just be a bet where public and private funds can contribute to young talents being invested in. What is the reason why the Workers' Party would not support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1232	I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have many common entrances to cultural policy. We're not, as I said in my post, against private money into cultural life. We welcome that, but what we're against is that it's the private money that's going to govern where the public are going to put in. When we have asked the Council of State for a single project to be made visible after the gift-enhancing scheme came into operation, it was not possible to explain a single new attempt. So it was the same people who had received money before they continued to give. As far as the talent program is concerned, we have other bets. We insist that we continue to take talents abroad through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' travel support. Unfortunately, it is cut off in the budget. We're betting on Youth's cultural model, which is a real measure of breadth, and we're betting on building strong structures elsewhere, among other things. through the Youth Symphonics, and other arrangements that we can really bring out the talents of Norwegian culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1239	The gift enhancement scheme is a very popular scheme that already received more than twice as many applications as there was money for the first year, and that has tripled in next year's budget. The representative Aasrud was concerned that it was not possible to find out whether this triggered new money or not, so she asked questions about whether the scheme worked so that it contributed to things that would not otherwise happen. And in the next sentence, and also now in the line exchange before this, she concluded that there is money that would be there anyway -- it's kind of the ones that had already got, that just gets more. What I'm asking is whether the representative Aasrud could say a little bit more about how to be so sure that these are institutions that would already get money, when it is said in the same sentence that it's really impossible to see if this triggers new money or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1246	The answer to this is simple: we have asked the Council of State, and she could not explain a single new measure that has come in since the introduction of the gift enhancement scheme. Then it's easy to imagine that it's the same old ones who give away money. That's very good, but it shouldn't be governing where we're adding the public heads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1255	The Norwegian media industry is experiencing challenging times. Journalism is still flourishing, there are even quite a number of new flowers we see when you and I are increasingly challenging the edited media reality we've been accustomed to over decades. Both the production and consumption of journalism are at a very high level. Because it is especially the economy of the traditional media houses that is under pressure. Cross press, we can call it, both of the two historically important income streams are drying in, both advertisers and subscribers are disappearing. There are differences, some are close to a successful transition to other platforms, others are struggling very, and others are living more on screen. In particular, the largest and most important media house in Norway, the NRK, lives in a relatively sheltered economic reality. I'm coming back to the NRK. First the newspapers: The Government, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united on the support arrangements in the 2015 budget. The industry itself says that these arrangements are essential for their success in their conversion. However, despite all the support schemes and good intentions – in all the 19 years we have had newspapers online in Norway – it is still the case that the industry has largely not found good solutions for digital publishing that ensure the necessary performance. The government platform says that we want to change and reduce the pressure support. This is because we've seen so far that the preserving models haven't stimulated innovation. It is therefore expected from the Right that the industry is now showing that the current level of aid contributes to innovation and does not become a respirator for the paper newspapers. Some words about VAT: Today there's a big crack, some have 25 pst., some have 8 pst, some have 0 pst. A common zero VAT rate is now being notified. And then we're going to find a consensus in Stortinget on how to define it. But a principle should be firm. Low VAT should not be introduced as an aid to an industry in economic crisis. There must be political reasons for introducing an equal amount of VAT. Equal treatment is important, including in the case of direct aid. There are challenges to today's system when we see one media house running away with one third of the direct support. In a very large number of other contexts, such a dominant alarm clocks are set to germinate, and the diversity argument is put under pressure. Back to our largest media house, NRK. More than every five Norwegian journalists and editors work there, and it is very common for us to find both eight and nine of the NRK's productions on the top ten-list of most launched programmes. Maybe the most interesting media debate in the next six months will be about the NRK and the other public broadcasters. A wholesale notification of the NRC has been notified and it shall address the content, distribution, financing and ownership of the NRC. The robust economy of the NRK gives them unique opportunities and muscles. How it enters a market in imbalance — well, it’s uncertain. It is important that the NRK maintains its right to exist through quality and the experience they give us licensee, but it is equally important that their position does not weaken other players in a market that is struggling. It's also important that we look at the public broadcasting mission together. We are facing a global competition, and it is important, with Norwegian eyes, to have an overall good Norwegian public broadcasting offer. If you look at the NRK a regular night, it is not unlikely that you will see one or more of the Norwegian Typing products presented quite well. The government wants to pursue a policy that takes into account gambling addicts and ensures revenue for ideal purposes. But there are dark clouds in the horizon. Norwegian Typing's own forecasts for future sales are not keeping pace with the price increase. EU signals point to Norwegian Typing’s failure to grow without further delay, and more and more games on foreign websites threaten the income of Norwegian Typing and Rikstototo over time. So late last week there was a prevailing perception among many that games by foreign players were still at the 2012 level. I think we're now going to assume that even the Lottery Authority, which two years ago thought this market had ‘flattened’, now almost triples the estimate for games abroad. The cake for distribution for ideal purposes is in danger of being reduced. This is when we have to design a modern game policy. It should include how we can get this money to Norway, for example. through a licensing scheme for foreign gambling companies and, in addition, through the opening of non-addictive lottery icons, as is currently being considered. If we had managed to pick up today's games abroad, we would have added them with today's numbers. 200 million. kr for ideal purposes. With regard to accountability, it is important to bear in mind that foreign actors are also engaged in the fight against gambling addiction. In many cases, we already see – in the unregulated market – that they market the Play Dependent Guide as clearly as Norsk Typing. Closing your eyes to foreign games, or suggesting Internet technical walls we have to buy from China or North Korea, is not the way to go. It is about creating a modern policy to secure income, make the cake bigger and take care of social policy considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1276	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1279	Right-wing eagerness to exchange private contributions to the State budget in private sponsorship is increasing. As we have seen in the media in the last few days, we can now risk that private contributions can lead to demands for input money, for example. public parks. Are there any limits, and if so, what, for leads that private sponsorship can lead to? Is the entrance fee in a public park possibly such a limit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1284	It's nice to notice that Right-wing eagerness infects! As far as private money is concerned, of course, into cultural life or into art, there is no upper limit to what you might want to welcome there. Part of what we do in the state budget next year is to open up to schemes that stimulate that if you take a local initiative to expand, clean up and facilitate, the extra public money comes with it. This is to stimulate. It is also called for to look at other schemes as appropriate – incentives to facilitate them. I do not see this fear of the so-called private money as real at all, and I am surprised that the term ‘public money’ is always used. It's yours and my money, it's money collected through taxes, which is then distributed again. The creation of a splicing layer between the private and the public, for example: In a park, I don't see any problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1291	In the view of the Labour Party, cultural life in Norway remains dependent on strong public and predictable support. It's been like this for a very long time. Right-wing praise for the new gift-enhancing scheme. What I'm wondering – I'm asking in a slightly different way – is: does the representative Eidem Løvaas see any unfortunate effects of public money being tied up by private donors?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1298	I think the gift-enhancing system is a good example in one of many ways to do this in the future. The amount of application for the gift enhancement scheme also shows that this is popular and will become more popular. Then we agree that we need a strong public commitment to culture. At the same time, I think we disagree that it should be fixed as it was done in the last few years, by 1 pst. of gross domestic product was the target. As soon as you get a receipt, you should say that there's 1 pst. Well, then we're in target, then we've solved it. I guess the way you spend your money is so important. The representative, Aasrud, used to be involved in the construction of stone. Yeah, I guess that's what you did. Then you counted up the bricks, and then you said that this is also part of the cultural budget. I guess it's as important how the money is spent as how much money you spend. And the gift-enhancing system is a success so far. I think it's also going to be a model for other similar schemes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1305	I want to deal with this that has to do with the government's game policy. It is quite clear to many of us that here we are going in a more liberal direction – more liberal than the Christian People's Party likes, especially because we are uncertain about how this will turn out when it comes to, for example. dependence on gambling. I read in the setting of a case that we're going to discuss at the end of today, that the government is now allowing poker. The setting reads as follows: ‘According to the Government Action Plan against Game Problems, the Lottery Authority shall keep under review...’, etc. Can the representative Eidem Løvaas explain the Government's action plan against gambling addiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1317	I think it is important that we, together with the cooperation parties, also continue to develop a modern game policy that takes care of game addicts. Gambling addiction is a problem. 0.7 pst. by those who are active players, they are reported to be at risk not only but also to be really exposed to the problems of gambling dependence. I don't think the solution is to try to set up walls abroad or to say that we should close our eyes to the reality that is around us. Instead, we have to invite the actors in and talk to them, whether it's the foreign actors that we know there are today, or it's Norwegian Typing, Rikstototo and others, so that we work together to find the solutions that are needed. A very good action is the Game Dependent Guide. It is sad to see that so far — in the last two years — the use of crowns for advertising the Norwegian players’ Guideline has fallen sharply. Together, we need to find solutions to this, and I'm sure we're going to join the Christian People's Party too. We would like them to be included in the game policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1326	The representative, Eidem Løvaas, was concerned with media policy in his speech. It's an area where the government has given a clear and clear statement that they're going to reduce the pressure, and also that they could think of a low-VAT scheme, i.e. 8-8 VAT. In both of these areas, the government is being pushed to the right. The Christian People's Party and the Left have made a good effort, but unfortunately they have to make that effort over and over again. They did it now in spring, and they did it in the negotiations on the budget. How many fights will the Right take on these areas before they realize that there is no majority in the Biggest for what the Right wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1333	I don't think we're going to count the number of matches or rematches, but as I said, it says in the government statement that we want over time to reverse and reduce the direct production support – this because we've seen that it's a system that has been conservative and has not contributed to innovation. In terms of VAT, I want to talk a little bit about it, to figure out the limit, I think we're gonna make it, to find the rate, I think we're gonna make it. Then, in a very short time, we'll get quite a lot further than the government that sat for eight years, did. For eight years, they closed both ears and eyes to what was the challenge for the media industry in terms of VAT, and it was not a single millimeter. I think the only relationship that remains after eight years of red-green government, between VAT and numbers, is eight years of government and 0 pst. results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1341	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1344	Cultural policy shall contribute to enabling people to participate and experience a diversity in cultural life, including of high quality. A true cultural life is best safeguarded by a cultural policy the aim of which is a cultural life of freedom. Knowledge and experience of our common cultural heritage is a strength in our building of identity and emotions. The government's cultural policy is based on a desire for a strong and independent cultural life. The gift-enhancing scheme has been criticised by the opposition parties, with the Workers' Party at its head. It was launched in 2014. This government considers it a success and wants to strengthen it still in 2015. We think of this as a spice layer, something to which the Workers' Party is skeptical – nothing new is coming! But it's actually like these means plus someone to spend on art and culture. This is not put on any bank book or used for bureaucracy; it is used for art and culture. Can you criticize that? The reinforcement system stimulates increased private funding and the generation of money and gifts for culture. This is a splinter layer that no one can join and criticize. This is a win-win situation. I would also like to highlight the efforts made in the library through the State budget for 2015. This government continues to invest in the libraries. Not least through the cooperation we have had with the Left and Christian People's Party, the large private literature houses have been lifted up, which I also see that the Workers' Party is involved. It's a collaboration that I think is great. In addition, we want to develop the 428 literature houses we have around the country, in most municipalities, and then I think about the people's libraries. People's Broadcasters -- we have two of them. We have TV 2, and we have NRK, and there are two important actors in the media image in Norway. But they have two different assumptions. When we start going through the NRK message, we start discussing what is the future of the NRK, we should see this in a whole. The NRK has been and is a very dominant institution, both media policy and cultural policy. I also believe it is important that the NRK, as a major player, is put out and has a share of external production. Why do I mean it, and why does the government mean it? Well, it's just to get the competence out of the house, out across the country and out to the professional environments that are there – to spread this competence. Therefore, this government wants to discuss the NRK licence. One wants to discuss the NRK poster, one wants to discuss the general broadcasting role of the large TV houses and possibly find an alternative payment scheme. No one has mentioned that the license is increased by only 25 kroner, so I am doing it now. Then I go on to say that the government has a proposal to modernise the media policy and wants to discuss it with the industry. We see that the media industry has worn off in the last eight years, without any previous governments having done anything about it. Now we've lifted it up. Now we're discussing VAT, we're discussing support, and we're looking at how to charge new technological platforms. This is in good shape. In addition, the government will strengthen the VAT compensation scheme for sports facilities, which I was in a line earlier, and this we get feedback from the sport that they are satisfied with. Finally, they do not have to use their money to pay interest, taxes or VAT or to advance it. Now they get the money refunded right away and can spend the money on the youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1363	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1366	The representative Ib Thomsen was in media politics. There was also the representative Eidem Løvaas in his post. In a line on this subject, the representative Eidem Løvaas referred to the Government Declaration, which states that the press support should be reduced in the long term. That means we're going to have a few rounds ahead. My question to the representative Ib Thomsen is: What kind of instruments – and then we talk about public instruments – is what the representative of the Progress Party sees as being able to support under the media diversity if you cut the press support, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1373	If only you could have said the solution to the thousands of dollars question here and now! This has been discussed in Stortinget, it has been discussed among the parties, and not least the press itself discusses how we solve those challenges. I know there are some parties that point out that the only solution is the press support, preferably the highest possible, and that we get the best media coverage in Norway. I think that if all parties sit down and have a common goal and wish that we have a good and strong Norwegian press, then solutions can be found to that. The question of VAT also comes in as an important topic of discussion. This has also not been solved in the last eight years. I see that the solution to the Christian People's Party is more press support. That's the solution -- the point. No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1382	We'll accept that invitation. I hope that the representative Ib Thomsen can confirm that the Stortinget will be involved in the further process in the case of media echoes, both the size of it when the notification is about to be notified, and the limitation of what should be covered by any zero VAT, not least. So I hope that Ib Thomsen can confirm that there is something in which the Stortinget and all the parties will be involved, so that we can see what is Parliament's position on what a future VAT should consist of. I also believe that it is important to challenge the Progress Party on whether what we have now reached an agreement on is the primary position that one now really wants to drive on and stand for the zero VAT and drive that process through from the government, and whether the Progress Party will ensure that it does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1389	I hope that the representative Grande is aware of the role of the Storting when he is concerned about Storting's involvement. The possibility of discussing VAT is clearly present. With a minority government, it's present even more than we've seen in the last eight years. The size was not very involved in the discussions that the then government had, and had to sit on the sideline. But I will promise the representative that the entire Stortinget must be involved, of course. The representative Grande is concerned about the boundary between digital and paper. Yes, it's a challenge, and I remember the previous government also discussed it. But there must not be any restrictions on us. When we know that a paperpaper file and a PDF file are exactly the same, why can't we see that in context? That was our question at the time, and that's the question we can also ask ourselves today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1396	Me and the representative Thomsen have had a common commitment. It's about our common cultural heritage. Today, we are building a new national museum that is becoming beautiful and beautiful, but we still see it as important to keep the old National Museum as part of the exhibition facilities because it is an important cornerstone in the construction of Norway as a nation, it is an important building in Norway's identity. We agreed during the budget conciliation that this is a matter for which we have not lost, but for which we are now going to fight further, to try to get the old National Museum as part of the exhibition facilities. This we fought hard against the previous government, and I just want to make sure that the representative Thomsen is still on the team to fight for the National Gallery to be part of the National Museum's exhibition facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1403	Step, we're on team! The cultural heritage is important to Norway, and I believe that the whole of Stortinget agrees that we should fight further for it. When you address the specific question of exactly the National Gallery, that building is built to be a gallery, it's a famous place in Oslo, and not least the building is worth taking care of. And when it's as clear in the budget as it does, that this building should be taken care of, it should still be an exhibition space for art and culture in the future, I think we two, Trine, should stand together on it and fight on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1410	The President would point out that even if the representative is on the team, the speech will continue to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1413	I think it is positive that the Progress Party wants to involve Stortinget before deciding on the issue of VAT, the question of zero VAT and, where appropriate, the limitation related to VAT. That's good. It seems that both the representative Thomsen and the representative Eidem Løvaas tend to believe that the media revolution is very linked to the red-green government, as if there is a correlation between the media revolution and the red-green government. I think we're going to have to correct a little bit in reality about it, because the challenges of the media industry and what they're going to be facing in the years to come may not have much to do with what color the government has, but it has a lot to do with what long-term framework conditions they get from the government. Now there's a race from the Progress Party after taking the NRK, so I'm going to ask, in which area is it most important to reduce the role of the NRK in the opinion of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1423	There were several questions in the introduction. Mediemoms is important when we discuss Media-Norway and Media-Norway's everyday life. This is nothing new. It did not come now when the government changed. This challenge for Media Norway has been present in at least the last six–seven–eight years. I am pleased that the Center Party is now on the track and wants to be with and discuss it and does not lock itself to the attitude that we experienced them in the government, but that they are now freer to discuss this. The NRK is important that we have a review on it. I've been quoted in some newspapers that I want a "chainier" NRK. I didn't write that headline, but what I meant, and what I stand for, is that we want to discuss the contents of the NRK. Is it true that the NRK should have the same programmes as those of advertising? Is it true that the NRK is going to run the same radio channels as the commercial ones? We should take that discussion. The basis of life of the private and commercial are precisely viewers and listeners. The NRK is not fully dependent on those figures to secure its budget on 1 January of every year, they get it anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1432	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1435	The public must ensure that cultural life has good conditions. We need an active and offensive cultural policy. That is why I am pleased that in 2015 we will also receive a cultural budget with increases in several fields. The Budgetary Agreement between the Cooperation Parties provides improvements for the cultural and media sectors in areas that are important for the Christian People's Party. But let me start by thanking the committee chairman for his good management. Thank you to the Right, the Advance Party and the Left also for good budgetary cooperation. The media are in strong transition, and the challenges are well known. In a situation of falling storage figures on paper and increased digitisation, it is important to maintain the press support. Also in terms of VAT, the Storting now gives clear signals that there are zero VAT applicable both on paper and on digital content. That's good. The Institute of Journalism avoids cutbacks, Sami newspapers can maintain their level – we have come up with good solutions through the budgetary conciliation. Another area that has been important for the Christian People's Party is the ensemble support, which is managed by the Cultural Council. I am pleased that the negotiations in the Committee on Finance have increased the amount of aid for the ensemble of 10 million. kr. There is money to strengthen the part of the ensemble support that goes to high-level choirs. The increased allocation allows for more high-level choirs to receive ensemble support from the Culture Fund. The grant scheme we're talking about here is an important scheme, and it's important to raise existing choirs. I pay particular attention to the majority comment on pages 70 and 71 of the vote, where the increase is justified and described. With the increased framework, the number of queues under the scheme shall be increased. I am sure that the Culture Council will manage this well, and I expect that both the Department and the Cultural Council will ensure that the funds are used according to their intention. The Christian People's Party will introduce a new system for young artists, an artist resistance system. It is a scheme proposed by the Society of Young Artists, which has the full support of the Christian People's Party – fortunately now also the support of the majority of young people. Through the scheme, newly established artists can work as assistants to a more established colleague, and the newly educated and established artist can apply for funds together. Further work is now to be done on the facility and criteria for the Talent Norway scheme, in close dialogue with the artists’ organisations. I look forward to that. So I'll just briefly mention that in a later article I want to address a completely different but very important issue, namely how the Stortinget will be able to provide the necessary political priority between different cultural purposes, a matter such as: are relevant to the forthcoming review of the Council of Culture. But I'm going to come back to this in a later article. I also believe that it is right for the Ministry to open up so that support from the Culture Fund can now also be given to those who have annual grants from the State budget. A unanimous committee would then also agree to this in the vote. Finally, a couple of things. ASSITEJ Norway is doing an important job in the field of stage art, and I am happy that the allocation to ASSITEJ Norway is increased by 1 million. kr, so that the operating aid is now close to 1,5 million. kr. At the same time, ASSITEJ is moved to heading 78. It is important to stress what I was just about to say, that although there are annual subsidies from the State budget, there can now be support from the Culture Fund. I am also pleased that there is an overall committee that chooses to raise ASSITEJ Norway in positive comments. Oslo Church Music Festival has been on the Christian People's Party priority list for a long time. Now it's being strengthened by 2 million. in addition to the undertaking already given by the Norwegian Cultural Council. Finally, I would like to mention the Oslo Korfestival, which has also received a very positive majority comment. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1458	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1461	I am pleased with Mr Bekkevold's assurance that art and cultural life will receive strong public support in the future as well. The new ambition of the government for a private and gift-funded culture can continue to grow a financial elite that can buy gifts and cultural capital. What does the Christian People's Party think about public support for art and culture becoming dependent on private donors?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1468	In my post, I was dedicated to saying that the public should continue to participate and ensure that cultural life has good conditions. It also presupposes a high level of government grants. When the Christian People's Party does not look at private funds as "dirty money", which was the expression used, it is because, provided you don't cut public funds, private funds will help to make cake bigger, and that's what we think is good. But I want to warn – also the government – and this is going to be a little bit to repeat itself: I don't think there's an extensive Sarepta pot out there, full of private funds. I don't think so. That is why we are totally dependent on the fact that we still have a high level of public support for cultural life. The Christian People's Party shall contribute to the fact that it will also be so in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1477	I thank you for your answer. The representative Bekkewold believes that he will be involved in the conversion and new responsibilities of the Council of Culture in a later article. However, I allow myself to ask: Does the representative of the Christian People's Party see the need for a debate in this room before the major changes in the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Cultural Council were changed for 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1482	Yes, there are many things I think we should have discussed in this room before making structural changes, and there have been some structural changes in the cultural budget. You mention one thing, the cleaning up you did at the Cultural Council by cutting at post 74 and putting something at post 55 and something at post 78, and something was dropped into the tipping agent surplus. There are such structural changes I think it would have been wise to have a debate about in this room before they were made, but there is little we can do about it now. But we have a very exciting debate ahead of us, and that is the debate that is just going on at the Culture Council and the review of the Culture Council. I expect that we will have a good and thorough debate in this Chamber related to it. It deserves the Council of Culture, and ultimately culture deserves this, because it is in many ways the Council of Culture that helps us to have a living cultural life in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1489	There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party is a party with a whole policy. In the cultural policy, on the other hand, there is a strong footprint in Telemark. I know, for example. that there are many and good telemark museums. The Telemark Museum was nominated for the museum of the Year and was given a second place. My question to the representative is: Does the Christian People's Party have a comprehensive cultural policy for the whole country? Could it be by chance that the representative is from Telemark? I will warn the representative against making sure that only Telemark gets, but that he sees the whole country together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1496	First of all, it's a bit of a coincidence that I represent Telemark, it's just that I came to the county in 1992, when there was a job available there. As for this footprint in Telemark, let me just take one example and it's about the Light Arc Industrial Museum at Notodden. Well, you might say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey. - We've allocated 1.5 million. kr to them – but then it turns out it isn't. Here's the Rjukan Industrial Workers' Museum to be consolidated with the Notodden Light Arc, and the two museums are going to do something as amazing as telling about our proud industrial heritage. Here we're talking about Hydro, we're talking about Sam Eyde, we're talking about hydro power. Then you can see that this is not Telemark alone. This is a museum of national importance, and the Christian People's Party is concerned that we should have a comprehensive national cultural policy. But I thank you for the question!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1505	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1509	The Centre Party shall give priority to a local cultural commitment in its alternative budget. It's now ten years since the Cultural Promise was launched. Cultural life has served well, including: by doubling the cultural budget. But there are still many completed tasks within culture. The Central Party believes that it is time, in particular, to give priority to local cultural actions. This type of offer needs to be developed further, and others must also be allowed to participate in that type of offer. In this way cultural resources must also be turned in the favour of local cultural life. The whole country needs to share in the growth of the cultural sector, as underlined by the report of the Enger Committee last year. So let me refer to the Central Party's alternative budget, where we, among other things, commits a major boost to local cultural activities, both above the Ministry of Culture’s budget and by increasing the income of municipalities to strengthen, inter alia, the region’s economy. The music and cultural schools, public libraries and church buildings, to mention something. Many of the highest culturalists in the future will be recruited from the wide, local cultural life. It's also one of the reasons why it's necessary to bet on culture in all its breadth. Cultural infrastructure, such as equipment and practice facilities, will be very important for the production of practitioners and productions. Around the country, there are today a number of organizational cultural buildings, which mean a lot to local cultural life. They gradually have a significant maintenance run, and the need for conversion and modernisation is a large number of sites. In the opinion of the Centre Party, a separate grant scheme for organisationally-owned cultural houses and extended VAT compensation for the conversion of this type of house are necessary in order to preserve the cultural base wall of these houses. Sport and voluntary activities are an important part of the Ministry of Culture's budget, and perhaps also one of the most important things we do for people in this country. Let me first give some praise to the Council of State. It is good that funds are now allocated to cover VAT compensation for sports facilities in the current year. It is also absolutely necessary. None of the batches wanted VAT compensation on plants to give only a 57 pst. compensation. Everyone has believed that VAT should be fully covered. Then it is also good that the funds are increased to next year, sail if I have my doubts about the additional allocation will be sufficient. But the round we've been through this year should mean that the Storting should now make a decision on a system that gives a right to refund VAT, not a budget line that may prove inadequate in relation to the actual construction activity that is taking place. The aim is that sport should be refunded for VAT, not that sport should have to live with uncertainty because they have to compete for a pot that is too small and because the activity is too large. It must be a bit strange for the Right and the Advance Party, who have argued strongly against the press support and to the extent also strongly against the zero VAT, that a clear and clear opposition pushes them to the right. I hope that means that we can soon put the discussion of reductions in the press support behind us, and I also hope that it means that the government takes responsibility for arguing the zero-memo system before ESA. One thing that is suitable for concern, however, is something that representatives have been concerned about earlier in the debate tonight, and that is what this government is going to want to do with the future NRC. The centre party wants the NRK to be able to participate in the development of the media market in line with other actors, and we believe it would be very unfortunate to clip the NRK. That is why we also want to adjust the price of the NRK licence. We also believe that the NRK needs to secure revenue for further development as a public broadcaster with a strong regional anchor. In my opinion, there are many contradictions between NRK and other media actors. Some people believe that the NRK should not develop online. It seems strange, all the time the newspapers have signed up on the TV market, which is a large part of their offer. Others believe that the NRK should not be allowed to stream their shipments free of charge. But it must be the objective that the NRK should not finance offers through the advertising market. Commercial media players could lose a lot of weight on that. Now, if we're going to start conducting what content production the NRK is going to contribute, we're also going to easily lose sight of a political attempt to direct the editorial activities of the NRK. That would be very unfortunate. The Central Party believes that in order to clarify the basic framework conditions for a number of media policy issues, there is a need for a broad media settlement, which can stand in the long term, thus creating predictability. Finally, let me inform you that the Central Party is going to support minority proposal No. 6 and 7 in the section, in addition to the representative Toppe mentioned earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1542	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1545	After a previous line round, it might be tempting to ask if the Central Party had plans not to promote matters in the Storting for which there is no majority, but we'll leave it, because it's not part of this debate. It is therefore true that some organisations have had a special arrangement with regard to premises and have obtained reasonable access to it through cooperation with the State. The center party has had a touching commitment to these organizations, especially 4H, and it seems pretty bad that these are not going to have these premises anymore. I wonder if the representative Arnstad can explain the principles that she believes must underlie who will obviously have free premises by the state, and who may not have them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1552	In general, the Centre Party believes that more of this infrastructure used by organisations, voluntary organisations and culture should be freely available and free of charge. That means that a number of things you're experiencing in the municipalities today in terms of halleie and stuff, really should be things that were free for culture and sports. In the case of 4H, the Forest Company, the Hage Company and the Agricultural Company, they have had a historical system of co-location with County State, it has a background decades ago. Then I think it's rather harsh and unnecessary by the government with a pen stroke just to beat a line all over the story that's been over for decades, and then say that now you're no longer going to be allowed to have offices at the County. I really don't suspect 4H and the other organizations to snoop around and snoop at County Office, but I think they have a system that has actually worked quite well in a lot of states.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1557	I understand the concern of the Central Party when they say it is important that politicians have an arm's length distance from Media-Norway. I understand that concern, and I think there is a great deal of consensus in the Stortinget. It's not lucky you have too close and tight ties. This with the NRK, how it is to be financed, is clearly part of that discussion. But when you talk about production support, press support, that goes directly over the state budget, that goes straight into the treasury of the Nations, to the class struggle, to our country, then we don't hear about the arm's length distance anymore. How does the Center Party assess its arms length into the Nation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1562	Press support has worked very well, especially in relation to two pieces of the media market in Norway. One is to strengthen the local media actors, and the other is to strengthen the meaningful national newspapers. It seems to me that this has been a sensible and good arrangement that has contributed to a media diversity in Norway. I do not think that there is any reason to say in any way that the press support has in any way influenced the content production or tried to control the content production. On the contrary, this has been a basic support based on clear criteria. But the problem is that the Right Party and the Advance Party, if they demand that the NRK be limited to a narrow, commercially uninteresting concept, may start to control the content production in the NRK. It may be a question of editorial freedom, which the NRC should also have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1567	The representative Arnstad was involved in the media industry's situation, which is independent of government. Of course it is. The challenge is that in the eight years that lie behind us, with the three ministers and the two finance ministers, nothing happened. Afterwards, there has been a spring drop of representatives who are in line with new VAT arrangements and new support schemes linked to management wages and what do I know. What I'm asking is related to, for example, The nation receives about NOK 2000 per subscription. Or another calculation: if you look at the journalists who work in media that receive press support, they will receive an average of approx. SEK 720 000 per year for comparison with e.g. agriculture, where it is SEK 430,000 per farm. What more does the Central Party think in order for the Nation and others to cope with the transition than to receive NOK 2 000 per subscriber and NOK 720 000 per employee journalist? What is more, after 18 to 19 years of online newspapers in Norway, the reason for the change can be achieved? Because that's not the way we agree, obviously, that the crisis has arisen right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1574	There was an important thing under the red-green government that unfortunately changed after the blue-blue came, and that has created great uncertainty, and that is that we did not go every year to such a fundamental attack on the press support as the blue government does. Not only that, it goes to attack, and then it loses a blow in the Storting, and then it goes to another attack again. The type of uncertainty did not create the red-green government around the press support and media arrangements. When it comes to the arrangements relating to the different newspapers, I really think they work a little different for the different newspapers we're talking about, whether it's local, no. 2 newspapers or meaningful newspapers. I have no in-depth knowledge of how it works in terms of each newspaper, and I can't comment on the figures that Kårstein Eidem Løvaas here presents about it. However, I am absolutely sure that press support contributes to a good media diversity in Norway, that there is still a high level of newspaper consumption in Norway – and thus to a large media diversity in the Norwegian media market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1581	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1584	I want to start with media policy, where I see what is now presented as very good solutions, with double-notification and with a first notification of zero. The reason why we've got this problem, and the reason why many of us who would go too low, only now see a crisis situation in Norwegian media on the basis of development, and see that it might be zero VAT that is what it takes to save the free word in Norway, is that we've just had a government that pushed and pushed this in front of us. So I actually think that the criticism of the Minister of Culture is quite unreasonable, because the Minister of Culture has been the Minister of Culture who has managed to get ahead on this very thing that we were waiting for the Red-Green Government to do something about, and which has been very solution-oriented so that we should bring this matter forward. It has been in the past, and there has only been a soluble discussion here without the will to do anything when the government and the Ministry of Finance have slowed down. Now I believe we are on a good track to be able to make an overall policy that a large part of the Storting is behind, and I hope that the summering of the previous government has not caused Norwegian media damage. The left sees it as very good in the cultural budget of the government, and it disproves all the horror propaganda that any civil budget within culture would be a tragedy. Nevertheless, the Left, together with the Christian People's Party, has strengthened parts of the budget that we believe were important to raise, even within the media diversity, by having now received Sami newspapers, that the minority language newspapers are under the Ministry of Culture of Integration, and the Institute of Journalism. This is important to make sure that we have the breadth within Norwegian media diversity. Then we are very happy that we got the promise that makes the Norwegian Folk Museum Foundation able to include the Norwegian Maritime Museum, so that we get the good development that the project needs. Then I have to say that I am personally very happy that we got the three literature houses we have in Norway, to a basis for operation, and I think it's going to be important for the development of literature in Norway. In the same way, I am very happy that we received an additional child literature allowance in the purchasing system. Our libraries are important key institutions, and that's what the Enger committee really pointed out had been weakened under the red-green cultural promise. Keeping our basic institutions ‘for good health’ in our cultural life is important, and then maybe child literature in the public libraries is one of the most important promises to make. So we're very happy that we got there. Then I'm glad that the committee also got Grenland Fritheater into that arrangement, and that we got Oslo into the International Church Music Festival. Then I come back to the three challenges I have to the Minister of Culture in the future. The fact that the Oslo International Church Music Festival has fallen outside all node debates because we think that a node should be just one expression in each area has shown how weak the node arrangement is. Oslo International Church Music Festival is a typical example of that system not working well. I'm glad the Council of State has told her to review it. The Committee has unanimously stated that they are attending that review – the node approach is now ready for a revision. So I'm sorry that it was only Left – now I have to admit that I haven't checked SV, so it's possible that SV did it – in its primary budget added Rock City. It made it hard to get on with it. It's a project that was started on rocking grounds, which causes us to have problems passing it on, but it's a unique environment of competence that you have to find ways to pass on. We in the Left have a lot of ideas about how it can be done, and we hope the government is responsive to those ideas, because this is a competence environment we can't lose. And sail if it was started on a bad basis, we have to pass it on, because we can't just let it disappear. So there's one last challenge for the government council in the future, and that's the distribution between the theaters, especially in this city, where we see that some theaters over time have been given a very beneficial distribution of the funds that go to the theaters. The left has been particularly concerned that the Norwegian Theatre has lost over time in the key of distribution between the important national institutions within the margins of this interlocutory.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1609	After the commendable efforts of the Christian People's Party and the Left in the negotiations, the worst proposals for cutting media were corrected in terms of the Institute of Journalism, the production grant, the subsidy for Sami newspapers, the zero VAT and the NRK licence. In addition, we had a proposal for a separate support scheme for local viewers and digital transition. We didn't need more than the Left's support for having a majority in the UK for a completely different and offensive media policy, and it could be interesting to hear how you in the Left think about the future of the media field. Instead of discussing cuts and how to restore the worst results, it should be more interesting to discuss the offensive media policy of the future with the majority on the Stortinget. These include: The left who has established this government and therefore also has to negotiate the budget for 2016. How will the Left react if the government again makes similar proposals on the media field?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1614	It was a very good reason to change government, and it was that the previous government never got its finger out – I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression – never implemented the proposal to look at VAT in relation to the digital one. That was one of the things that we really tried to get up in the last period. That was one of the questions we asked over and over again to clarify. Now first it's getting loose. When we got the government parties in the red-green government out of the Treasury offices, it started to loosen. I am very happy that we have got it done. It's very important. It is the most important step, much more important than press support, much more important than the Institute of Journalism, that we get that VAT regulation in place. I have great expectations that the Council of State will do so. She has a large majority behind her, she has a lot of guts to go to Brussels and make sure we get a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1619	Instead of answering the question, Trine Skei Grande only refers to what happened in the previous period. I can then recall that the red-green government increased the production subsidy to Norwegian newspapers in every budget. The only thing that this government has so far proposed during this period are measures that the red-green government has initiated, namely to neutralise the production grant. We also increased the NRK licence, so that the NRK has the opportunity to do the job you are going to do in relation to, for example. the responsibility for preparedness. It is not to be overlooked that only up to a year ago a clear advice was given from the media industry that it was 8-8 that was the preferred VAT option. Much has happened in most political parties, but also in the media, which have represented a maturation process. I am pleased that the Left and Christian People's Party, along with the majority of the population, have pushed the government to the right in the matter of VAT. But my question was: can the Left sit and defend and provide a parliamentary basis for a government that is constantly making significant attacks on the media field?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1626	We support a government in this budget that actually does what we have called for huge amounts. Talking about right-wing when it's the first time you've made changes to the VAT system, I think it's a rather strange presentation of what's actually happened. Then it's clear that we in the left have also been for a smaller cut in the press support. We have been for a different model than the one that the previous government stood for. We're going to have to make arrangements to ensure that the free word is expressed. To think that it's just by keeping the old support schemes and the old ways to support the media, I think it's wrong. I think VAT is very important, and then I think we need to look at new arrangements in the future to ensure free journalism, and maybe not to do so by supporting a few newspapers. Maybe it should be done with even better support for the quality journalism that we know we need in the future. Then one must dare to think new, and not be smart about increasing the old arrangements with some pro-miles here and there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1633	The representative Skei Grande said it was only Left, and possibly SV, who had in his alternative budget appropriations for Rock City. That's probably not quite right, because the Central Party put an allocation into its alternative budget, and so did the Workers' Party. It's a little sad now that we're probably going to see a development where one can risk a real liquidation of Rock City. There is a proposal for a Roman number decision in today's vote, which will at least be supported by the Central Party. But I'm really going to challenge Skei Grande a little bit on what the big business together could manage to do to prevent that really means a defeat of the whole Rock City.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1638	I didn't read the Senter Party's primary proposal, sorry, I hadn't checked it at this point, it goes well. But the Workers' Party did not let it into its primary, they have redispatched within the framework of culture and found about. half of what's needed to do that. There is a heroic effort in itself, but it would actually have helped in our negotiations if there had been a broad pressure from the Storting – all the opposition parties – that this was something we had to fix. It wasn't, and we lost that fight in the first place. But I think it's important to look at the professional community that's there. There we also got a note that there's a consensus about here, and we're going to pursue that further. It is important to take care of the environment and the investments made there, and the professionals who are there, and also to look at the possibility of developing this more for nutritional purposes, because there are very many industries associated with this in the Namsos environment. That's where I think there's a great potential, and we're going to work on that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1643	I have to cancel what the representative of the Skei Grande says that the Workers' Party did not have funds inside Rock City in its alternative state budget. We had $70 million. It also included the allocation to Rock City. But I have a question for the representative Skei Grande. The government liberalises gambling policy. There are more people who become addicted to the game. Why does the Left not want to take care of those who experience a high level of gambling addiction, when one sees the pressure that is now on foreign gambling companies? I expect more than myself to read a look in the VG about how gaming companies abroad are really aggressive to those who have gambling problems. Why does the Left not want to take care of the arrangements we have to limit gambling dependence in Norway when you want to participate and liberalize the gambling market?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1650	That's exactly why we want to do it – precisely because today we see that we have some Norwegian games that are losing in all market situations, and then we have some foreign games that are now taking more and more of the Norwegian gaming market, which is more and more aggressive, and which leads to more and more addiction and problems for those who play. We should have a system where we controlled the games that Norwegian citizens actually play. That this is going to happen within a monopoly called Norsk Tipping, I don't believe in anything. I think it could be done by letting go of other actors, but then you have to have control of them. What the Labour Party is doing is that they are cramming into one player, who is constantly losing in the market, while we see that those who really win in the market are the aggressive, those who create problems, those who create problems of debt, those who create problems of gambling – all those who are made up of an old-fashioned monopoly that cannot win out in a new technological everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1658	Cultural policy is essentially about civilisation, it is about facilitating a free and diverse cultural life, free publicity and exchange of views and managing our cultural heritage, but also ensuring that access to and use of culture is there for everyone. Therefore, cultural policy is not always compatible with a free market. We'll see that with the new government we've been given. The pattern is known. Yesterday, the OECD reported that growth in Norway has been much lower as a result of economic differences in our country. Knowledge is there, and similar studies at international level are high on the agenda. Here in Norway, the government chooses to rely on its own stomach feeling and pursue a non-knowledge-based policy, which increases differences, for example. with large tax cuts. The same is true of cultural policy. Here it often seems that it is more important for the government not to let the market get tired than to pursue a policy that works. Often the right-hand side uses arguments and allegations of lack of diversity and choice and quality as arguments for privatisation. In the cultural debate, it's been a little reverse: it's public too well. All the virac around yr.no, for example, last winter, is a good illustration. For the Minister of Culture, it has seemed irrelevant that yr.no works, that it is a success that pleases the Nordics and people from all over the world, because the market is getting tired, someone could make a lot of money on yr.no instead of it being a public good. I believe that cultural policy needs to be put in the opposite direction to the Progress Party and the Right in order for us to have a good cultural policy in Norway. Therefore, SV proposes to continue the Cultural Promise. We are the only party that continues the cultural promise by 1 pst. and maintain the full force of the cultural effort. Culture is the core of what is important in people's lives, together with work and education and health. That is why it must be a priority. Culture should not be a side kick-budget like that a little bit on the side. The second is media pluralism and press support, which has been highly debated today. We propose our own media diversity package. We propose innovation support – more innovation was demanded from the Right, without them spending a lot of energy on it. We are proposing the direct support for journalism that the representative Skei Grande was in and talked about in a good way. In total, SV has proposed 100 million. kr more in press support than the government proposed. I think that the proposal on common low-VAT combined with the reduction of press support, which was the government's proposal, bears witness to a government that is blind to the challenges facing the industry. Earlier in the debate here, we could hear a representative from the Right saying that VAT policy cannot be used as a tool to help a media industry in crisis, but that press support should only be based on political assessments. Well, we in SV believe that the press support is important politics, but let's just remember those words from the Right next time they present fictional tear presses from Norwegian business as arguments for cutting the wealth tax. I think a broad deal if media support is needed. The government has not arranged for it to date. There is an increase in press support that has found its way into the budget agreement, and that is that the Christian Press Office is increasing by 5 million. kr. That's nice now, but I also think that the ambition level of the centre parties is higher than to reverse the worst and most unreasonable cuts to the government, spiced with a few million to greet home. Then it's the libraries. These are perhaps the most important knowledge centers we have in our time. The libraries may be more important than they've ever been. Use is increasing. A strong library policy is needed, and perhaps especially in these days when the country is governed by a party that has not gone off the road in the past to propose payment for users in libraries, and another party that thinks loudly about removing popular genres from the purchasing system – once again because the public offer is too good, and the market is getting tired. Therefore SV proposes a library loan of 50 million. kr, both for empowerment and for a national digital media budget. We in SV believe in a Community-based and strong public cultural policy, that is what ensures a free and independent cultural life. The debate is often high in Norway on freedom of expression, especially when representatives from a particular party have been out and left to some minority group. Then the right of expression is important. Often political criticism in Norway is confused with attempts to bully, but the most important thing we can do in Norway to ensure freedom of expression is to ensure freedom of expression good channels, and the best channels for freedom of expression are good media institutions: newspapers, radio channels and television stations. The government has a long way to go in recognition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1674	The President is somewhat uncertain as to whether the term ‘slewed’ is a parliamentary term to use about his co-representatives. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1679	I perceive public or private money as much of the main message of the representative Serigstad Valen. It is not that the choice is either public money – i.e. your or my money – or private money. It's both, and that's what we're trying to do with an offensive cultural budget that will in addition stimulate private funding to make the cake bigger. The thing about cake is a little interesting, because I see the SV's alternative state budget is called "Share to create" – yes, it's not nonsense, it's called. I think that's where the difference lies, too much as the representative Serigstad Valen may be running around the blind belief in the market on the right, so this blind belief in nothing is interesting – that the public money comes of itself. In this airlock, the goal is 1 pst. You have to reach 1 pst. But what's this money going to be used for? It seems like the goal is 1 pst. of gross domestic product and its content are not so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1684	I broke off finding a question in Poland from the representative. For all things, I think private contributions to cultural life are good. I'm a musician myself, I know well how good culture occurs at the intersection of lots of good private initiative and public support. But public support is not an end in itself, that's what's our whole point. The public support is an instrument we use because we're willing to say that some things don't have a price tag, some things are important that we spend a lot of money on, so that a sector can be free. Instead of resorting to euphemisms of the kind the Minister of Culture has done, which claim that cultural life – or the press in this case – becomes more free and independent of getting less money, we choose to be honest and say that we are willing to prioritise more of the community's money on culture, instead of the priorities that Right does, which are huge tax cuts for a small group. There is no doubt in my heart about what brings the greatest joy in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1691	The question was so far: what is the content? I have the impression that the goal is 1 pst. of gross domestic product, and then you say very little about what you want to spend this money for in SV's alternative budget. But another question: The representative Serigstad Valen was involved in VAT, as I was also in my post, where I stressed that there was no need to become a tool to help an industry in crisis. There must be other considerations that lie at stake if you want to introduce zero VAT. I really just want to ask if the representative believes that lowering VAT is a useful economic tool if an industry is struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1698	No, on the contrary, the Right tends to talk about lowering taxes and taxes to help industries they claim are in crisis. We in SV are quite honest that we believe that zero VAT for the press is a good media policy tool, and we have made a broad deal in Stortinget, where we want more parties to be involved in such a solution. I hope that the Right too will eventually be. But then, of course, I think we should have a look at the media industry being in crisis when we in any case discuss these issues. It is not that the daily lives of newspaper editorials in Norwegian local newspapers, in the nations and in the class struggle, which were mentioned as examples earlier, are independent of the economic situation otherwise. I believe that one of the most important forms of business we can have in Norway, a prerequisite for democracy and freedom, is a free and independent press. Then, of course, we should deal with what is needed to ensure that that freedom is real and not, for example. the International Media Consignment only for purposes other than a good public change of words in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1705	The SV representative listed many important cultural actions for SV, this with talents, cultural heritage, culture for everyone, broad culture, not least that you also get the culture out where people live, discussions around the press, increases in libraries – yes, I agree with SV in all of this. They have great ambitions, and so do we. Then I have a question: SV has seven representatives on the Stortinget, but has elected the cultural committee. I understand that it is more difficult to sit on the Finance Committee, the Transport Committee or the Business Committee. When SV has such high ambitions on the cultural side, what assessments has SV made when they opt out to have representatives in such an important committee, which I also understand the representative believes it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1710	I think I've been into quite a lot of good in my post when a representative from a government party has to take a line on minutes relating to which committees small parties can represent on the Stortinget...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1715	But it has something of credibility...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1720	President, I have the floor now, right? - Thank you. I also believe that this question should be put to our parliamentary leader, because I was not the one who was in charge of the distribution of committees, and I did not sit on the electoral committee during the previous period. But as far as I understand, SV does not have access to the family and cultural committee because of the low number of members, and because we are few representatives. If I am wrong about it, I would like to correct it, but the honest answer is that I have no prerequisite for answering which committees SV should sit on and not, given our uproar.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1725	The President must ask that the representatives are not interrupted. The representative Thomsen can get another line if he wants it. - He doesn't. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1730	A good cultural life is characterized by commitment, integrity and quality. The government's cultural policy is to strengthen cultural life throughout the country. By increasing the spread of power, diversity is also increasing. We want to renew, simplify and improve. Of course, the government’s reform of efficiency and red tape is also relevant in the field of culture. We continue to simplify volunteering, and we want a simple, transparent and effective administration at the Cultural Council, the Film Institute and other grant managers. I am pleased that there has been such a broad political consensus on the cultural budget for 2015. Through the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, a good budget is further strengthened. The cultural budget is increasing by 3.7 pst. in 2015, with new key is the increase of 6.1 pst. The government has set aside $30 million. kr to an innovative and holistic talent development boost. In close cooperation between public, private and cultural actors themselves – and supplemented with private contributions – a new arena is being created to build a positive culture of performance. In addition, the government will contribute to strong regions of Norwegian cultural life. Creative, creative environments and actors in the regions shall increase competition and thus improve the quality of cultural life. That's why we want to strengthen actors like Theaterhuset Avant Garden in Trondheim, Edvard Grieg Kor in Bergen and Nordnorsk Kunstmuseum in Svalbard, to name a few. The gift enhancement scheme for museums has been a success. In the test year we have received applications for more than 17 million. NOK 10 million. kr. In 2015, we triple the amount. This can trigger gifts for 150 million. kr to Norwegian cultural life. Increased private funding and commitment make cultural life stronger, more independent and increases the spread of power, which in turn gives diversity. Therefore, we will consider tax incentives and various gift enhancement schemes to trigger more private capital. The government is completing the acceleration of the new key. Norwegian Typing's profit will be distributed by 64 pst. for sport, 18 pst. for cultural purposes and 18 pst. for humanitarian purposes. So the ratio that has now gone straight into the state box is going back to the key. This is over 300 million. kr more for sport purposes, approx. 122 million. kr more for cultural purposes and 19 mill. more for humanitarian purposes. The libraries are our best liked and most used culture houses, and we have over 428 literature houses throughout the country. The government will contribute to the development of libraries as knowledge intermediaries in a digital age and improve their ability to disseminate their literature and cultural services. Therefore, the development funds are strengthened by nearly 70 p.m., to approximately 70 p.m. 50 million. kr. "In media policy, red-green mumbles have been around for years," Dagbladet wrote last year. [[...]] The government is now modernising media policy. After years of red-green standstill, platform neutral VAT is finally implemented. The zero option will be prioritised in the notification process. Voluntaryness is by no means a supplement to the public, as one so often heard from the red-green. It has great self-esteem and has a significant place in our society. The continuation of volunteering is crucial when preparing Norway for the future. The government removes the registration fee to the Voluntary Register, so that more people can access grassroots percentage and VAT compensation. We continue to strengthen the neutral framework conditions. The gift allowance is increased, the wage and salary obligation limit is raised, and the exemption from the payment of an employer’s contribution is increased per employee and per organisation. In this way, we strengthen both the economy and the independence of volunteering. At the same time, red tape is being reduced so that more time can go to voluntary work and less to paperwork. In the Declaration of Freedom, the government recognises the peculiarity of volunteering and its own value. It should be easier to get information, to apply for grants, and to be able to participate more easily. I'm glad the volunteers get more VAT back this year, the abbreviation is almost halved from last year. And in 2015, the scheme is further strengthened. VAT compensation for sports facilities is given a historic boost, and we are strengthening the allocation for several new volunteer centres. The government will strengthen the production, dissemination and demand of visual art, music and performing arts. We're increasing the allocation of a number of orchestras, stage art institutions, programming scenes and actors in the free field around the country. In addition to strengthening the Culture Fund, we also strengthen the Audio and Video Fund to increase the scope of sources of funding for the free field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1763	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1766	One of the things most mentioned in the draft budget presented by the government is cut off on the cultural canal. In the evening post today, we have seen that this is only due to communication problems: the government has not found that it was a five-million-dollar allocation. kr for a song project. But when the Council of State cuts an allocation of 30 million. kr and shall replace it with a budget of 5 million. kr, it must be an expression of the ambition of the Council of State in the field. Is there any number of posts that the Council of State believes can be replaced by an allocation of 30 million? NOK 5 million. So kr, so one-sixth?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1771	Now it is that the government proposed to wind up the state grant, not necessarily the scheme. As the scheme has been set up, municipalities have received increased funds for 2015 compared to what they have received before. Unlike in recent years, municipalities with this state budget will have a really increased space for action next year, and when the proposal would only come into effect in 2016, municipalities would also have the economy to assess how they would continue the Spaserstick. This arrangement was a kind of time thief as it worked. As was the case today, the 300 municipalities would have spent a lot of time and resources writing applications and reports for grants, which would normally be NOK 30 000–50000, and with which they had not been fully financed. That means we've figured out a simpler way. As proposed now through this compromise, or cooperation, which we have received with the Christian People's Party and the Left, this is transferred to the county councils and can be delivered directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1778	I record that the money has been transferred to the framework grant to the county municipalities. I also record that yesterday there was a vote on the earmarking of the appropriations here in this room, which the government parties voted against. It actually surprises me when you're in favour of the arrangement. I want to ask you one more thing. In his statement, the Council of State said that 17 million had been applied for. kr on the gift enhancement scheme. That's why you're giving 30 million. kr to next year. In the case of VAT, on the other hand, the Council of State said in an answer to me earlier years: You expect applications for approx. 114 million. kr. But then you reduce the budget to 72 million. kr. How does this relate? Why don't you make sure you don't fill up the schemes that already need money, instead of filling up a system that doesn't currently have a demand at the level the Council of State adds to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1785	In the case of primarily the Spaserstick, the Ministry of Health stood for 15 million. kr. They have proposed a different device to that which was the original proposal, which had been in force until now. I think that was a good proposal. I record that the Workers' Party is in favour of the 15 million, which then remain on the Health Budget, which could actually go to strengthening and agreeing to increase the offer, among other things. to demente. With regard to VAT compensation for sports facilities, the government has just come back in connection with the ageing process and has contributed to our full VAT compensation, which is for the current year. As for next year, we have increased it in the budget that we have presented, but we also have an increase in the proposal that has come in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party. It has contributed to the fact that there are more funds available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1792	It's surprising when the Minister of Culture says we've voted against $15 million. kr on the health budget. At least that was new to me. In an answer I received to a question to the Council of State, it says: The government proposed VAT at sports facilities for 2015 would grant about 63 pst. until next year. Then I have to repeat my question: why is it important to increase a system that is not in full demand for today – because it was far from what the Council of State grants money – instead of prioritising VAT at sports facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1799	What I have been made aware of, and I am quite sure that votes, is that the Labour Party in its draft budget has cut by 15 million. to develop skills for the use of music in the care of demens Spaces, which in turn will reduce the need for e.g. sedatives. It is in the health budget that this took place, and I think the representative is also fully aware of that. It is quite right that for the current year we have contributed to full VAT compensation, which is paid back to the organisations at the plant. And then we have a sum of 100 million. kr for next year. If it turns out it's too small, we have a good opportunity to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1806	I want to highlight one thing in this budget that is new, and it is this talent programme, or Talent Norway, that will facilitate the professional development of young talents, regardless of social or economic background. This is good. The Christian People's Party supports this. But the majority parties on the Stortinget – the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left – have set up a system that has been important to the Christian People's Party, and which we call the "artistist" system, as the Society of Young Artists has called for. We have hit this in Talent Norway, because we see that Talent Norway and this artist assistance system are very compatible. I just wonder if the Council of State has brought this note, and that she will take an initiative and engage in dialogue with the Society of Young Artists to see if this system can come into place quite quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1815	In terms of this talent development, we have an ambition to be able to present this program before Christmas, perhaps as early as the next week, both in terms of scope and content. It's a very exciting model that we've come up with. We're in good dialogue with both foundations and others who might think they're in favour of it. This helps to substantiate many of the applications we received during the year that have passed, because there is a need to focus more systematically on talent development in cultural life, as has been the case in, for example: sports. With the majority comment available, of course, I will take the initiative to communicate this to Talent Norway, and this is an example of a scheme that can be defined under this. Spokesman Norway must also take a decision on this. We have an ambition to establish our own company and to give them their own government. But I am pretty sure that they are responsive to the signals given by Stortinget, and I feel reassured that we are able to reach an agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1822	I think we need some clarification about the cultural spaser stick, which has been an important scheme. It is easy to agree with Marvin Wiseth, who was very concerned when the government proposed to cut that arrangement. Then a settlement was made where one has committed the state's funds to this project into the county council framework. But there are two problems with that. One is that this government has gradually put many tasks into the framework of municipalities and county councils that are not financed, and the other is that we already see a huge tax failure in the municipalities that the government has said it will not compensate. If this picture continues, it really means that you have to break the cultural spaser stick in many municipalities. My question to the Council of State is quite simply: will she guarantee that this offer will not be closed if the municipalities get worse out of it, among other things? on the tax side than they've done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1831	As I said during the linecode exchange earlier, the municipalities have got a very good framework for next year. They've actually got a better frame than before. That they actually have an economic space to prioritize this, I am absolutely sure. In addition, 30.8 million are given. through this budgetary agreement with the county councils going to the cultural spaserstock, but it is part of the framework. It is true that this scheme has been a shattering layer between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Health and Welfare since 2007, but I believe that it is a better way to transfer it now than it was in the past. It's part of the story that we spent part of this money. It is not that the scheme as such has been removed. In the cultural budget, we have shown the willingness to give priority to measures that can also contribute to the culture of institutions, but also in the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget, we had a different facility on these funds that would help to improve the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1839	I very much agree with what Bekkewöld said about the artistic assistant arrangement. In the same way, Valdres Sommersymphony and other things that are really focused on talent bets are important to put in as part of what the council said about its talent bet. Now I've calculated that this is the 14th cultural budget debate I'm in, and then you notice that things are coming back, also things that you've been involved in. So I want to ask the Council of State about the node festival, because the Left is happy that we got the Oslo International Church Music Festival in the conciliation. But for me it becomes a symbol that the node mindset is not working optimally. We are unable to develop the good environments with the idea that there should only be one in Norway and that we should contribute locally. The node mindset is also a very heavy burden on the local government budget of Oslo. So what does the Council of State really think about doing with that scheme when she sees the weaknesses of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1846	It is true that we have tried to complete the evaluation of these focal points institutions. I'm assuming that by the end of this year it's actually done. We have an evaluation of everyone. The preliminary signals I can give are that there are very few of these node institutions that have actually worked after what was the goal. In this way, you can conclude that you have not achieved the goal that you had expected. That means that I imagine I'm coming back to Stortinget with an assessment of what you really should do, and whether you should have a different device on this. In any case, I would like to have a good assessment of whether with a more targeted use of these funds you will be able to achieve an effect where you can create motivation for others.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1853	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1856	I don't have the habit of having a reading from Prop. 1 S, but couldn't cheer me up now, when on page 25 it's just mentioned by the cultural spaser stick, where the government writes: ‘The order is proposed to be closed from 2015.’ So let's ask the Council of State to come up again on the pulpit and clean up what obviously has to be a misunderstanding in the Council of State's own head. Kårstein Eidem Løvaas used his post to talk about media policy, and he again makes claims that media support works conservatively and does not contribute to innovation. Then I would like to recommend Eidem Løvaas and others in the Right to take a tour around Norwegian editorials and media houses. Norway may have the most functioning media market in the world. We have a greater variety of newspapers than anyone else. We also have greater diversity in broadcasting, both on television and on radio. We also see Norwegian players winning prices internationally, both those receiving direct production subsidies and those receiving indirect support through VAT. So you'd have to be opposed to media support for ideological reasons, and hang on to it, but to claim that the media industry, which is perhaps the industry that is today, internationally and in Norway, in the fastest change, is little changeable, is almost provocative in my view. In a constitutional anniversary year, I think it's in place to recall the importance of the media to our democracy. Through diversity, more votes are cast, and control of power becomes stronger, local, regional and national. This isn't talking about the right hand parts at all. Eidem Løvaas has pointed out several times that he does not see that there is any problem that any newspapers have to be dropped, because we have bloggers. Perhaps in our time, with the great flow of messages, a clear need for the edited word is seen. It is also bad to hear a government council say that production subsidies make the media not independent, as the state council has claimed in the media several times. To me this appears to be a very serious claim, which also has no root in reality. But the Council of State has never regretted this statement. It must mean that she still means it. In this case, how will she characterise that the budgetary agreement significantly increases the production grant in relation to the government's original proposal? The industry does not ask for revolution in the instruments, but for predictability and long-termity and for the VAT exemption for paper newspapers to be extended to all platforms. On the other hand, the paper newspapers are the launch ramp for the digital bet, and proposals that affect the paper newspapers will just go beyond the digital bet and innovation, which the right parties claim they are so concerned with. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left in their budgetary conciliation with the government parties are correcting some of the worst outbursts of government policy. I am pleased that the government has realised that the battle has been lost in terms of their original position on 8-8 VAT for the media industry, and that this is forced by the bulk of the grossing-up to the right on that issue. I am also pleased that Ib Thomsen promises that Stortinget will be involved in the VAT process. That is quite natural, because this is not the government's policy. Time has elapsed from the government's position on the media field. Thus, it is quite natural and important that the government parties listen to the Stortinget and the industry themselves in terms of demarcation, before notifying them. I also want the Minister of Culture to confirm that the Stortinget is involved, as Ib Thomsen has said, in the pre-notification process. Finally, several have pointed to today's headline in the Evening Post. Here comes Minister of Culture Thorhild Widvey with statements suggesting that there may be more cuts in the next round. She says, ‘We have a political platform after which we work.’ And on the other hand, later in the case: ‘Then I record that we did not get through this time either, but we cannot fail to promote what we have adopted in our declaration.’ The budget proposal was called the ‘opacities’, and so long it seemed to evolve to become a tragedy in – at least – three acts. Some of the worst cuts are now corrected, and the government is forced to rectify the VAT case. But I think we can at least safely establish that this is a very open-ended performance.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1893	The judgemental prophecies about Culture-Norway were many before the government presented the budget for 2015. There was no way how many who knew with certainty about cut, lack of willingness to bet and the safe death of film and visual art. For some, there was no doubt that before the New Year rockets landed, market forces had taken over the management of cultural life. It stopped quickly after the budget was presented on 8 October. It's worth noting that the background of these predictions was probably very different. The opposition had a strong desire to create unrest, probably based on their own concerns because the government was actually going to deliver at least as well as they had. Others were very concerned because the government had announced a thorough review of the activities of key actors and not least a thorough assessment of whether public money spent on culture is being used accurately. In addition, many people knew that the 2015 budget contained many and large costs, and that the fight for money would be tough. The Minister of Culture has proved to be a good champion of the culture of the country, and she shamed the predictions. I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for the exciting and good negotiations both in the finance committee and in the trade committee, and I am pleased with a budget that facilitates the continued high level of activity in Norwegian cultural life. There is no doubt that in the cultural sector there is an almost complete desire for support in various forms. There is also no doubt about the high level of commitment of individual cultural workers and of voluntary organisations in both humanitarian activities, sport, culture and a variety of other activities. As former rapporteur, I have learned a lot about the value of volunteering in a municipality: as a valuable glue in the communities, as a good help for individuals alongside the public services, as a provider of services to the municipalities and simply as a social and physical meeting place for the inhabitants. Our task as politicians is to facilitate the commitment and initiative that are around the country, not least by letting those who choose to engage in volunteering concentrate on nuclear activity. That's why the government's work on simplification is something that gives the voluntary payoffs fast. Smaller red tape on employees through increased reporting limits, reduced reporting, free registration in the Register of Volunteers and work on predictable frameworks are therefore measures in the budget that are making a good decision. Increased VAT compensation for non-governmental organisations also provides a better economy, which reduces the need for revenue-bearing measures to pay back to the country. The VAT compensation for 2014 resulted in only 17 pst. curtailment of applications from voluntary organisations – a significant improvement from 30 pst. shortening the previous year. Taking into account the increase in costs in 2015 also means a lot to volunteering. Now that we are dealing with VAT compensation, it is also with great satisfaction that we can conclude that the government has corrected the situation resulting from a large review of the VAT compensation scheme for sports facilities in 2014. We went into the year with the Stoltenberg government cutting off the line in its budget proposal, and even though the new government increased this item by 10 million. kr, no one predicted the large increase in approved applications – including those that had proposals in the revised budget. I am pleased that the Stortinget is clear that this should be a predictable system of preferably full compensation, and that the government has followed up this. It is also very good that this item in the budget agreement got an increase, so that now there is 100 million. kr in the entry for 2015. The scheme is unpredictable and varies from year to year. I would therefore like to give tribute to the Council of States, which has initiated a dialogue with sport on how to put in place a more predictable system. Both of these schemes improve significantly the conditions for future operations. This, together with the completion of the stepping up of the key, gives a significant boost to sport in 2015. The wide variety of sports and many activities, both for breadth and for top-level sport, have now received considerable help in increasing the number of sports. We'll give honey to the sport. We are grateful for the efforts made by sport and which, in addition to the self-esteem of sport, contribute greatly to better public health, both physically and mentally. It's worth noting that even the rest of the cultural life is getting more money through the change in the key. The government shall be praised for having now completed the planned stepping up of the key. The Committee on Culture has a wide range of responsibilities and would require considerable length of speaking time to cover all areas. Art, crafts, music, performing arts, languages and literature, museum, cultural protection, archives and general artistic and cultural purposes. It is good that my colleague, through our main contribution, has already drawn attention to media and gaming policy. I'm going to focus the rest of my article on some key budget bets. The gift enhancement scheme for museums and art purchase has been a success in 2014 and is extended to 30 million. kr in 2015. As a result, the government continues to provide good support from private to cultural purposes, increasing the total resource of the sector. Furthermore, during 2014 a negotiation and agreement was reached on a division of tasks between the Municipality of Oslo and the State. As a result, the state has assumed responsibility for the Norwegian Maritime Museum. I am pleased that, on the basis of this, through negotiations, we have found the basis for strengthening the grant to the museum to facilitate a consolidation with the Norwegian People's Museum. This is an important step in ensuring the future good use of resources and the economically sound operation of the Maritime Museum. In the field of music, both the government and the budget agreement at Stortinget have raised the choral activity, both at the latitude and at the top level, as an important investment. There is no doubt that this is an activity that engages and inspires many, and cows at a high quality level are an important inspiration for the breadth of the choir business. I have to say that at long seagoing times, both as a choir singer and as a conductor, I find it easy to boast of this result. Literature is a very important part of culture, not least because it has many aspects that are equally important. Of course, literature has a self-esteem, and it is therefore important to facilitate access to literature. The government has therefore prioritised a significant increase in public library investment as a literature publisher, meeting place and knowledge intermediary, with a budget of 48.5 million. for the development of libraries. This is a good help for the municipalities, which are responsible for the libraries, in their work of renewing the libraries for a new time with new forms of communication. In the field of literature, it is also important to note that, through the agreement in Stortinget, it is set at 5 million. kr extra to a purchasing system for children’s literature. The fact that children are invited into the world of books ensures both language skills and a future active relationship with literature that conveys knowledge, history and narrative. As I said, there is a lot that should have been mentioned, and I have to end by pointing to the great and important bet the government has put up to lift the talents of all creative subjects and arts. By decomposing 30 million. DK and invite both foundations and other actors to participate, through this, to a significant increase in talent in all areas, and we look forward to seeing how Talent Norway can inspire both young and older actors in its areas of increased investment. Never has there been such a significant effort to raise the talents, whether through financial support, artistic assistance arrangements, organisation for the exercise or connection to international environments of competence, which can provide inspiration and increase knowledge. Through the development of Norwegian practitioners at a high international level, increased recruitment and participation will also be gained through experience. That's good for our cultural life in all areas. The government continues its work to ensure that the money spent on culture is accurate. This budget makes some important and good choices. There has never been so much money spent on culture before, the device is releasing more private funds, and the inspiration for quality and talent development is in place. This deserves cultural life all around the country!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1931	In the 2015 budget, the horizontal is one of the major winners. In 2015, the government fulfilled its promise to escalate the sport's share of the Norwegian Tipping's profits. The sport will get a total of 64 pst. of the surplus of the game, which corresponds to well over 300 million. kr extra for sport in 2015. The redemption of the key is historical. The availability of sports facilities is important for the diversity of sports facilities, and it has therefore long been important for us to ensure a greater proportion of sports facilities for this purpose. Increase of over 300 million. kr will provide a better framework for local sport, and this money will primarily be used to build and rehabilitate sports facilities. Many of the larger sports facilities are built by municipalities. Long waiting time and low rates of toy subsidies have been a challenge for many municipalities with a tight economy, making it difficult to invest in facilities to make the younger population happy. More money for sport and facilities will bring with it even more sportsy, positive challenges and mastery around the country. Let me remind you what the last red-green government did before they left the government offices in 2013. It was cutting VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities. Despite the fact that all approved applications were curtailed under the red-greens in 2012, the red-greens chose to cut into the scheme with a total of 8 million. kr in 2014. When we went into the government and took over their budget, we immediately added 10 million. kr for the 2014 scheme. This turned out to be too small, as the number of applications this year was twice as high as last year. We have therefore, in cooperation with the cooperation parties Christian People's Party and Left, submitted an additional appropriation for 2014, so that all approved applications will receive full VAT compensation for this year. At the same time, we ask the government to look at measures that will make the scheme more predictable in the future – this because we prioritise sports throughout the country. The gift enhancement scheme launched by the government in 2014 has been an unconditional success and is further strengthened for 2015. The gift-enhancing system stimulates increased private funding of art and culture through gifts of money, and it is gratifying for cultural life that more opportunities for tax incentives and gift-enhancing schemes are now being explored to trigger even more private capital in cultural life – together with the public, which is yours and my money, and which is actually private. I have at least not heard of anyone who does not want these funds. It is also gratifying that we now have media policy developments on the agenda after many years of standstill. In recent years, the media industry itself has called for a common low rate of VAT over several years – a platform-neutral media support. The fact that this has not been taken into account in the past is really a little strange. It's high time you were able to equate paper and e-papers. I'm also looking forward to getting a message about the NRK. This is going to be a big and important thing that interests the entire media landscape – and the political life, I'll tip. As far as the NRK is concerned, we have actually cut the license for 2015 because we believe the NRK has a robust economy. With about 5 billion. kr in licence receipts, we believe there is room for some efficiency, without compromising the quality and the job. This is a budget that contains very well for cultural life in the whole country – support and commitment to everything from volunteering to prioritizing and caring for our important cultural heritage, for which we have a responsibility. I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for their good cooperation on the budget we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1950	I will begin with something I don't like to do, namely to quote one of our very best and best rock band, Dumdum Boys, and their excellent song 'The head over the water': «Then we first see the seriousness of it. Is there dark clouds in the sky that come sailing with the wind?" The blue-blue government has shown a lack of vision for cultural life. Two years in a row, we have witnessed proposals for cultural budgets that have produced strong reactions throughout the country. The Christian People's Party and the Left should be grateful for their efforts to keep the cultural policy's head above the water. Norway is a cultural nation. Great lifting is taken, and we can now see the fruits of a long-term and targeted work. But in the horizon, dark clouds in the form of cuts and a desire to shift responsibility away. Where are we going with today's cultural policy? My claim is that today's government does not take our nation's creativity seriously. Had they done so, they would have increased the focus on art and cultural life throughout the country – not creating a cultural image, a bad mood, and using an argument that doesn't hold any goal at all. I'm talking of course about the new idea of winding up the cultural spaser stick. I am talking about the 25 000 signatures that were collected by Siw Grindaker when she became angry at the government. I allow myself to quote also her, from the notice of her in the Roman leaf: ‘The only thing that's worse than stealing candy from the children is stealing pleasures from the elderly.’ No further argument is necessary in that case. So to the new idea of reducing the cultural school bag by taking away movies as a singer, removing children and young people in Norway's ability to watch a movie they normally wouldn't choose in cinema themselves. I don't understand that we have a culture minister who then until those degrees takes away important elements in conveying art and culture to the whole country – to children and youth, adults and the elderly. Yes, even a youth cultural card is to be cut. This is because the scheme is not used – therefore, it has to be cut instead of being adjusted. The Labour Party will today promise that all young people with us in the driver's seat will receive a cultural card that is designed in the way they want, because we know that young people will have the cultural card. A rather serious effect of today's cultural policy is precisely that artists lose the opportunity to work fully within their field. Just the examples The cultural walking stick and the cultural school bag are helping to facilitate jobs throughout the country for artists to exercise their profession. They form the foundation of Norwegian cultural life. The Community made good arrangements so that the individual artist could have a decent income to live on. I want to say that I am very disappointed with the cut government does in the dear Music Equipment system. It is a scheme that benefits all of Norway – all municipalities, towns and cities. It's a system that really builds culture from below and up. It's the rock guitars, it's the drum set, it's the sound equipment, it's the music stuff for municipalities that don't normally build culture houses, for example, Utsira and others. The Minister for Culture must be the minister who has been returned to his draft budget more than anyone. In a number of contexts, Widvey now has to go out and present and defend a policy that she obviously disagrees with. I'm not going to mention examples, because I don't have time for that, but I'm not in any doubt that a cultural budget with a strong right hand triangle has now got a slacker turn using the Christian People's Party and the Left, and that's good. How it feels for the Minister of Culture, we can only speculate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1984	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e1987	Film is perhaps the most precious form of expression in culture. An average Nordic feature film costs up to 20 million. kr. At the same time, the Norwegian market is limited by only 5 million inhabitants, and unfortunately we are all alone on our mother tongue. It goes without saying that Norwegian film needs state support. The question is how many new Norwegian films we need every year, and whether quality is not more important than quantity. The advantage of film is that it reaches large parts of the people. It is available on more and more platforms and provides more access to history stories with a format that you can otherwise only find in books, unfortunately not everyone is reading books. Norwegian film is important, Norwegian film is good, but the system around the funding of film needs to be discussed carefully. That is why it is good that we have an offensive minister of culture who is not afraid to take such a debate. I myself was present at the presentation of the report Open Future, which took into account the state of Norwegian film. As regards the economy of the film industry, the report was clear. It shows that as many as three out of four Norwegian films are losing. Half of these again have a deficit of over 50 pst. This shows that the film policy that has been pursued has great weaknesses. However, developments have also led to Norwegian films being raised from being too particularly interested in becoming an export product, but exports do not help much when the industry lacks financial soundness. The question is whether the hunt for more and more films has gone at the expense of the industry's sustainability. One of the problems with today's system is that manufacturers make the most money to produce movies and not to sell movies. That means they have to have a film in production all the time, which goes beyond the work of launching the films they've made. So the last words are probably not said in this context. Another challenge we see in the film market is the decrease in sales of films in physical format. This greatly affects the funding of Norwegian film festivals, and in particular the international film festival in Haugesund. It is therefore gratifying that the cooperation parties in their agreement have allocated NOK 400,000 to New Nordic Films in Haugesund, the world's largest and most important market place for Nordic film. Without this grant, it would look dark for this important part of the Haugesund film festival.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2000	Taking care of the past into the future is important. Since it's been 1814, one can see that a lot of people have been concerned about history and the time that was. Here the museums are an important actor. I mean, conveying and processing cultural heritage is their responsibility. There have been some transfers within the budget. Not everyone is equally well-considered, we think. Funds for the project and development have been proposed to be transferred to the surplus of the funds. The working party is skeptical that so much is being moved here, because we know that the government parties want to open up parallel to new games. It can make it tougher for anyone who wants some of the profits from Norwegian Typing. Does it mean in the long run that even more private money is needed here? Although some of the museums have increased in the frame, not all of them. Vestfoldmuseene and Museum Nord are two museums that have been reduced. They've both got new jobs instead. The Thor Heyerdahl Institute is e.g. moved to the Vestfold Museums, an institute engaged in research and development, and is something quite different from a museum. This means that the museum's operation itself has received less money. Therefore, the Working Party strengthens these two museums by 1 million. each in its proposal. The plural remark that ‘there is no professional justification’ for the move of the Thor Heyerdahl Institute should have been followed up by the Council of State — if the Council of State had listened — because there must have been a mistake here, it must have gone a little fast. Archives are another important cultural heritage carrier. The working party believes it's time to put the new archive on the Thinset. So we've done $30 million. kr for the start of this important project. We also believe that there should be a revision of the Archive Act. A lot of new things have happened here since it was adopted 22 years ago. Governments are encouraged to initiate this work, in line with the Stortingen treatment of Meldning. St. 7 for 2012–2013, Archive, in April 2013. Everyone should be able to participate in our cultural heritage. Amazingly, no other parties support the Workers' Party's comment on universal design in the museum field. There are still major challenges, although much has improved. Obviously, it's a cost question. And it takes time, because there are a lot of considerations to take. Here it is important to find the good solutions together. Consideration of protection and good organisation can be resolved if one wishes. The working party is dedicated to giving everyone the opportunity to participate here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2017	Cultural life is diverse and cultural life is crucial for the Norwegian welfare society. The Norwegian welfare community, a combination of safe families, a large non-profit sector and a public security network, is something that we can be very proud of, and that other Western European countries, including the United States, envy us. For the Centre Party, it is essential to strengthen the voluntary, non-profit sector, for there is so much positive that can secure the welfare community and safeguard cultural life. The centre party has gone to the elections on a third part of the cultural promise, where we believe that it is now time to turn cultural funds into a favor of local cultural life, and that the whole country will share in the growth. There are two measures in this budget that I want to highlight, and there are measures related to the organisational cultural structures. The centre party is committed to improving the financial framework conditions for organisationally-owned cultural buildings by providing VAT compensation for new, new and new construction and conversion costs for construction, construction or other real estate. It is not possible today, and it is important that we get it done, so that we get a simpler regulation, and so that we do not have to make a distinction between new, on and on costs of conversion versus maintenance – it is very difficult to practice. It is also important to have such a system because that type of cultural building is very difficult to achieve in competition with sports buildings. That's why we have an allocation of 40 million. kr for this purpose. The second proposal is to establish a separate grant scheme for organisationally-owned cultural buildings within the decentralised grant scheme for local and regional cultural buildings. It is today that organizational houses – such as alleyhouses, community houses, prayer houses, People's House, Farmers' House, Spiders' House, Red Cross House – receive grants. But what's the challenge is that there's such a big maintenance run on a lot of these buildings, so that those who are responsible for them and want to fill them with activity, are all the time in the difficult dilemma of what to concentrate their economic surplus on. Are they going to secure activity, or are they going to do more? That's why we have 10 million. kr in that area. When this matter was discussed in connection with a proposal for a representative, it was referred to it fairly well, not least by Kårstein Eidem Løvaas from the Right, who spoke positively about it. I now think it is important to simplify the system, and then this is a good proposal that I hope the Chair of the Committee on Culture can take with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2031	The voluntary sector has been important for Norway throughout the post-war period. They have been important contributors to the development of our country, and many of them have made our society richer and warmer. They are a good addition to public services, and they are innovative and important voices in the social debate. For this reason, the Workers' Party supports voluntary action – and until the government's proposals for the state budget were presented, I thought volunteering was important to them too. I have long since come out of the census of how many times the Prime Minister and others from the blue-blue government have talked about the importance of volunteering – and the Council of State is following up today. But one thing is what they're saying, something else is what they're actually doing. For the government proposed a series of cuts in volunteering. We were told that the cuts were good to ensure that the voluntary sector would become independent and credible. So the blues mean that, for example, voluntary sector membership organisations today are not independent, nor are they credible. Obviously, here we live on two different planets, because this doesn't make sense, nor does it make sense that large cuts will help to achieve this goal. Here we talk about the country's voluntary cultural and amateur theatre environment, youth teams, theater groups, leisure clubs, corps, choir and dance, just to name someone. I would believe that everyone living in the country – and almost everyone visiting this country – is somehow in contact with the voluntary sector in a year, and the volunteers are making a huge effort. But the truth is that the government isn't particularly concerned about this, but, on the other hand, as the many times says, we just have to fulfill what we promised in the election campaign to take the country in a different direction. They're complying, and they're noticing volunteering. Then something happened five days ago – and listen to this: Voluntary activities are an essential part of virtually all areas of society. Through the Declaration of Volunteership, we will ensure the voluntary sector predictability, transparency, trust and accessibility in dialogue with the government regardless of the department to which they are addressed. The fact that people engage and take responsibility in the community, prevent loneliness and build communities. It's the volunteer that creates the good community and is glued to our society. Voluntary activities create joy, well-being and link communities together. For this reason, it is important that both state and local authorities provide the voluntary service with good conditions. This is well said, and I fully agree, but it is alarming that this was said by the government when the Declaration of Freedom was presented on 5 December. If we're going to learn some of the experiences we've had with the government so far, my advice is to volunteer: Run and hide as soon as you can, because the nicer the government talks about you, the bigger the cuts can be. Finally, I noticed that the Council of State said in its statement that a good budget had improved after the conciliation. It must mean that that proposal the government announced was not the best for the country. But that's what we must have lived with if the blue-blue had a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2050	We have an exciting political work ahead of us in what is to be the review of the Norwegian Cultural Council. The most important question we need to ask is how we can best respond to cultural needs and how we can best contribute to the growth and development of the cultural sector through public instruments. Here, the Council of Culture is an important instrument. The Christian People's Party will continue to have a strong and competent cultural council with a high level of competence, which can be a driving force in Norwegian cultural life, as it is today. But one thing we need to look at is the interface between government, big business, cultural councils and cultural funds. I now mention this in the context of the government's proposal for powers for the Cultural Council, as we see in the proposal for Decision VIII. Power moves power out of elected bodies. The system of the main distribution within specified chapters and items ensures that the different cultural objectives can participate in the budgetary increases. A breach of this will create uncertainty for many, and creates unfortunate competition between the different cultural purposes. The size has a responsibility to ensure the necessary political priorities between objectives. It is in the nature of cultural policy. As I said, I have great confidence in the Cultural Council. I have great confidence in all the employees there, and everyone in the different selections, but the government's proposals weaken the ability of the political authorities to pursue active and offensive cultural policies. It is an important principle that the Storting should be able to lift specific areas of cultural life if necessary. What we want to avoid, on the other hand, is an untimely detailed management towards the beneficiaries, but there is something quite different. We're going to give cultural freedom. At the same time, we must have the opportunity to raise the environments, the genres and organisations that are either not heard, that are being hung behind for some reason, or that the Storing wants to prioritise for various reasons. That possibility must be there. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the committee has a very clear comment on this, on page 63 of the vote. I ask the Council of State to note that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party now assume that in their review of the activities of the Council of Culture, the government ensures that these premises are used as a basis for the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2068	As the Stortinget deals with the various sub-budgets, it is very clear that the government's original proposal does not support the Stortinget. It's all-round for all the debates we're going through these days. A lot is being debated, and a lot is very important. I take the floor in this debate because I believe that cultural issues are of particular importance to society. It is linked to the fact that culture is an expression of democracy and civilization. There's reason to ask, and that's probably a rhetorical question, but I'm asking anyway, where has it become of the value conservative right? Where's it gone? There's almost no trace of it left in what I hear-- unfortunately, I'll say. Traditionally, the Right has been involved in carrying this forward in a completely different way than they are now. It is liberalism that has taken over under Widvey's rule, with an appeal of civility. These two factors are now governing cultural policy in Norway – unfortunately. When the budget was presented, I wondered if there had been a little overrun. I asked myself, how can they promote as many strange cut suggestions as they know will lead to such a storm against themselves? I asked myself that. What do we see, and what do we experience? The representative Harberg said instead that it had stopped when the budget came. Then I must say, through the President, to the representative Harberg, that then you must have been somewhere else than what I have been. It's certainly not been quiet. There has been a storm against the Stortinget. This is reflected in the polls. We have not had some silence – on the contrary. What we're talking about is not that it's gone over the edge and into the cabin and into the pain. This is a deliberate strategy to liberalise Culture Norway, as part of the government’s major strategy to make the market the main governance instrument in Norway. That is the gravity of the debate we are having here tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2079	The President would like to remind you that all speeches are to be communicated via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2082	I agree with the previous speaker that cultural debate is important. I also assume that there is a cross-political consensus that literature, reading and debate are important. What I wanted to talk about now is literature. Literaturhuset in Oslo opens in 2007 – a great success. According to own websites, there is an annual visit of 250,000 per year. Debates, literature and lectures have been given to a new and important arena in the literature halls. But the House of Literature in Oslo has also been important for the country, because it has inspired others to start, both in Fredrikstad and in Bergen – both opened in 2013. It might also be useful to bring the background. The literature cover has an original background in German cultural and author life. The goal is, among others: to have an independent venue to create debate. Norwegian literature houses have in common that they have become such an open arena – not just for the benefit of those who have benefited, but for everyone. Events on this arena attracted more and more people than they ever did. Then there will be wider debates with several participants – and that's good. For the Left, literature, knowledge dissemination and debate are important priorities. We want a social development that promotes a lack of voices and themes. Many important authors cannot rely on meeting their audience through the best-selling list. Just by having a literature house, there is a room where literature can get out and the audience is invited. You will also get an effect by raising a number of authors. Free Word has made a great effort to get the House of Literature started in Oslo. But it's important to think about this by being independent. If one is to be able to keep the literature houses going, not only can one rely on market forces or generous sponsors, and it is important that it is a public responsibility to support this. Then it is also important that they exist in several places in the country. I live daily in Bergen, and we know that things can look different from different places. That's why it's also important that we have more. Before 2014, no department store received support, if I have understood correctly. The red-green government had a very good idea in their last budget that the literature houses would receive support. The Left and Christian People's Party followed up by getting this into: secure the 4.5 million. SEK in 2014 and SEK 7 million. kr in 2015. I think we're all happy about that, and then we can look forward to more good debate venues being secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2099	The centre party went to the elections last year to implement the third cultural promise. Like the Enger Committee, which the Arnstad and Lundtägen representatives had in place, we believe it is time to turn cultural resources against local cultural life. That is what we are following in our alternative draft budget now, unlike the government. It's very interesting at national level, but now we think it's important to focus on the local. In addition to a reversal of some of the proposed cuts promoted by the government, the Central Party has wanted a large increase in the allocation of the local libraries, i.e. the local literature houses, and to music and cultural schools. We are also increasing the allocation of the Music Equipment System, as the representative Haukeland Liadal described in a good way. The music and cultural schools embrace a wide range of fields and at the same time provide opportunities for professional cultural workers – so it is a win-win situation. Schools are a popular offer. It is so popular that there are long waiting lists in many municipalities. We want to make the offer available to more people and let the music and cultural schools evolve with different cultural expressions in a way that embraces both those who want to develop their talent, and those who want to interact with music, dance, theater and other artistic expressions because it gives joy and simply is fun. The Central Party believes that investing in local cultural life is the foundation of our democracy. There were very many who reacted very strongly to the cuts proposed by the government within the education budget to areas related to formal competence. Folk high schools, college unions and adult education did not believe what they saw, and mobilized violently against cuts that would have dramatic consequences for the cultural life where we live. How then, do you think maybe? Well, I think of the consequences, the consequences, that it would have for the local corps, that we expect to play for us on May 17th, for those who are going to embroider and sew our bundle, for those who are going to be directors of senior dancers, for folk dancers, for football court, for spears, etc., etc. The range of non-governmental organisations that benefit from grants for study activity is long and diverse — and they go through the study federations. The cuts that were proposed are evidence of a lack of competence and a lack of knowledge on the part of the Right and Advance Party. In addition to reverseing the government's cut-off proposal, we in the Centre Party have proposed to increase the allocation of the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations and to allow the study associations to participate in the scheme, which we believe has been fundamental since the scheme was established. We do not understand that the study federations will not be refunded their VAT expenditure in line with other non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2110	I am pleased that a joint committee states that regional and district operations must be strengthened in parallel with the efforts of the Norwegian Opera & Ballet. The Committee is pleased when it says that, through extensive cooperation between professionals and amateurs, regional and district operators are involved in building the cultural base wall around Norway. There is a need to invest in opera and cultural houses in Kristiansund, a house to house the Opera in Kristiansund, Nordmøre Museum, Kristiansund Library and Kristiansund School of Culture. The Workers' Party's comment in the budget, which points to that, is therefore joyous. Realisation of such a project, such a house, is very important – yes, really crucial – in order to further develop the Kristiansund Opera, which has a firm place on the state budget and as a resource and competence centre for district operations. The city’s opera is the result of Norway’s oldest opera traditions, with traces back to 1805. It has since 1928 produced and set up a host of operas, operas, musicals and ballet and dance performances, of which a wide range of Norway premieres and even some world premieres. Better facilities are required. The Kristiansund Opera has extensive cooperation with others, both cultural institutions and the school community. Young people participate on stage and in orchestras with adults, professionals and amateurs in interaction. This is how tradition, knowledge and skills in music theatres are handed over. In addition to the opera, the Nordmøre Museum also has a pressing need for new premises. It is particularly positive that the museum and the opera have found each other in the house issue, both in order to achieve synergies between the companies and for the audience and users of the offers in such a house. The museum will present the entire North-Murder region, and a collection of such a house in Kristiansund will provide a significant boost to the dissemination of, inter alia, North-West coastal culture. In addition, an important collection of folk music is to be presented. The founder of the Kristiansundopera Edvard Breein's collection of folk music unites music history with object stories and the dissemination of action-based knowledge. In addition, the Nordmøre Museum and the Opera in Kristiansund are important in a travel life perspective. As a starting point or end point on the Bud–Kristiansund national tourist path, a new building with attractive facilities will provide a boost to cultural travel life in More and Romesdal. Today's facilities will in no way be able to give such a boost. Nordmøre has the institutions and the knowledge, now they are waiting for the building in Kristiansund that can help develop these further for the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2127	The cultural spaserstock has received 30 million. kr over the county budget. This will enable municipalities to develop the offer of older people in their municipality. They can develop and adapt the offer where they know the user best. This spa is discussed during this treatment of the health budget. This walking stick is discussed in the municipal budget process. This walking stick is an offer to those sitting at the bottom of the table. This offer is for those who cannot travel to the Opera. This offer is for those who cannot travel to the National Theatre. I am proud that we have come so far that we have a seed tank in the development of culture in Norway – Talent Norway. It's set at $30 million. kr there, and this is a new and exciting action within the field of culture. It is a bet on those who do not live in Oslo and who do not live in the big municipalities – but the talents that live around the country that can be picked up and developed further. It must be possible to ensure an overall commitment to these talents – in cooperation with cultural actors, such as voluntary children’s and youth organisations for orchestras, for choirs, for corps, and not least this artistic assistant scheme, which we now want to develop. Cultural life itself has an enormous amount of experience and expertise associated with talent development and can be a contributor, a major contributor to the design of Talent Norway. The Labour Party claims that this government does not have visions. Now we have mentioned the gift-enhancing scheme, which will give culture and art more money, we have mentioned Talent Norway, we refer to the art-resistance scheme – measures that will build culture throughout the country. That this government would then not have visions – then I would ask the question back: who is coughing up old proposals and wanting and developing them further instead of seeing new opportunities and developing these young talents? It's the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2136	Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in, and we've been told that we have a good welfare society, it's reflected in good living standards and in many years of life. It's about good kindergartens, it's about care for the elderly, it's about participation, culture, etc., and not least it's about a good public common school and the right to a good school, as our dear Peace Prize winner stressed several times today. The second is the opportunity to live and live around the whole of our country. It is to participate in the voluntary sector, the voluntary organisations and to develop communities that enable children and young people to grow up well. I record that representatives of the Progress Party, both Thomsen and Stordalen, are trying to take credit for being the sports party. I would like to remind you that during the red-green period of government – eight years – a voluntary message was promoted, a sports message was promoted, the Norwegian sports model, and more financial arrangements. In 2007, transfers to Norwegian sport amounted to around 1.2 billion. kr, but after the red-green government had introduced a VAT compensation scheme for goods and services for Norwegian sport and volunteering, after we had introduced a VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities, and after we introduced a grassroots share for Norwegian sport, we may start approaching 3 billion in 2015. NOK to Norwegian sport through these schemes. There is more than one doubling since the red-green government implemented these measures. And the game scheme, where it was also adopted a three-year escalation, has now come up in 64 pst. – it was also laid the basis for it in the red-green government. Something else that is important is the removal of the 26-year rule for disabled people, so that they can do sports. There are over 11,000 members of Norwegian sports teams who are disabled, who now have the opportunity to participate in a much better way than before. There will continue to be a need to strengthen already established grant schemes, and not least to help voluntary, trusted and active in Norwegian sport to spend more of its time on other than managing — and also on activity. The current exclusive right model has since 1948 been a model that Norwegian sport, Norwegian volunteering has turned around, which has been part of and funded volunteering and sport. This cast doubt on the new government – in stark contrast to what Norwegian sport and volunteering want. This is a challenge that determines in a way what funding for this area will be like in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2149	First, a few comments on this with VAT: I am very pleased that there is a majority in Stortinget who now acknowledge that there is a need to do something about getting platform neutrality in terms of VAT. This is not something that has happened now, in recent years, that the media are struggling and having a challenge. They've expressed that for quite a number of years. And I'm very happy that in a year we're ready to take this case to ESA and provide for a notification process, which is contributing to our getting zero VAT. Let's start with that. The agreement in Stortinget meant that we could bet on both low VAT and zero VAT, but I have stated – and I also want to express that from Stortinget’s pulpit – that it is natural for us to go to ESA with a notification of zero VAT first, because we have received clear indications from ESA that introducing VAT exemptions in newspapers will be seen as state aid. Then it is most natural that one should start with the proposal that is most State aid intensive. We have also received signals that in the context of the delimitation, it must concentrate on what has to do with news. The Minister of Finance, the Minister of Industry and the undersigned are now working on this demarcation issue and will fight for us to be able, of course, to achieve a good result. I imagine that as soon as the result of the notification is available, there will be a need to bring the matter up for re-examination in Stortinget. It is difficult to predict when it may be, but at best there is an opportunity for us to come back with a briefing or possibly a proposal in the revised national budget in 2015. The time will show how long it will take to get to this. A brief comment on this with a cultural map for young people, which was presented: we have proposed to wind up the state grant for a cultural map for young people. The annual allocation of the Youth Culture Card has been 3.9 million. kr. The assumption of a State grant has been that each county contributes more than the State grant, and in the last two years there has been no basis for paying out the entire state grant. In 2014 – i.e. this year – only seven county municipalities applied for grants for cultural cards. The number is so low that it can no longer be considered a national task. And when action is taken and different arrangements, I hope it doesn't have to be that way that they have come to be – «for ever». It must also be possible that we have the opportunity to evaluate them and see if there are any that are absolutely certain, and if there are any that are less accurate. Then you also have to have the ability to make changes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2159	Sport is Norway’s largest voluntary organisation. With 1.8 million members, sport is an organization that embraces the many. We in the Culture Committee have met many sports councils and associations that have reminded us of what is the biggest challenge for Norwegian sport at the moment. It's a formidable aftertaste on the payout of games from the gambling pot. When the Workers' Party went in to increase the share of sports to 64 pst., we thought it would help us to remove some of the delays. This is what it looked like, but fortunately many new plants are being built in Norway, so the increase in the proportion of gambling funds has kept pace with the access to new plants, which means that the aftermath is still large, and therefore the Workers' Party has taken the sport seriously and has seen that we must now do something about it. We've said we should allocate 400 million. kr each year for a five-year period, in order to contribute to its aftermath. So when Ib Thomsen swings and says that the Progress Party is the big sports party, I think that's where he could have really enjoyed the many who sit and pay interest and deductions on the money they expect to get back, only they get in line. I think it would have been more important than the money they're waiting for when it comes to VAT. I'm a little surprised that Thomsen is so excited about what has happened to the plant tax, because that's how the government he's representing has provided a budget that will grant 63 pst. So the thank-you card should send Norwegian sports to people other than the Advance Party when they get a VAT compensation scheme that might cover 90 pst. until next year. I have to comment on the Council of State's reference to the Cultural Spaserstick. The Labour Party has granted 15.4 million. Earmarked crowns in Chapter 769 of the Health Budget. And then we've added 5 million. kr for Chapter 761, which provides general care measures and their development. It is also – as I hope the Council of State has got – 15.4 million. kr on the cultural budget, so that the Workers' Party can recover by providing funds for the cultural spa. And when these budgets looked down – I guess they will be here today as well – we asked that the post that is said to be used by the county council's framework grant was earmarked. Neither did it get a majority. That means that the cultural walking stick is not going to delight as many people in the future as Ib Thomsen thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2170	I'm a little surprised – or perhaps more stated – when the representative Arild Grande makes himself very high and dark in media policy. Whether it's for better knowledge, whether it's because you haven't followed well enough, or whether it's to adapt to a script written in advance I don't know, but at least I have to clarify some things. There are some things that it is said that I have said, which I have not said, for example. media are not willing to change. Of course I didn't say that. What I have said is that they have a challenge, and that of course they turn – like all other businesses – towards the way the income comes from. Nor have most people found adequate solutions to make money on advertisers and subscribers in digital reality, and they solve the challenges differently. And what I explained then was that it's a expectation that innovation will come, when they themselves have said that a press support at today's level is a prerequisite for innovation. We have an expectation, while the representative Grande describes the innovation and changes that are taking place in the media, as well. With regard to the claim that I have said that it was okay for newspapers to be dropped, of course I have not said that either. Some newspapers come, and some newspapers go in. The number of newspapers in Norway has been relatively stable for very many years. But we can't take a snapshot and say, now there's a perfect number of newspapers in Norway. Now that's exactly how it should be. Right now the number of newspapers is right. Right now the NRK has the correct position. Right now the product is delivered as it should be. This is changing all the time, and the questioning of conservatory arrangements to meet the challenges of the future, I think it's wrong. Bloggers can take over the newspapers: No, of course I haven't said that either. But it's a new reality, because the edited media reality, with which we've lived for many decades, is challenged, and it's positive, because as the representative Arild Grande speaks louder and darker, and it's talking about both democracy and freedom of expression, it's of course part of it. The fact that you can publish yourself, and that you can challenge the edited media reality, is part of this. The reality is that the representative Arild Grande and his party have been holding their hands in captivity for eight years, and now they have suddenly had a revelation. Three ministers, Hadia Tajik, Anniken Huitfeldt and Trond Giske, did nothing in the matter of VAT. They sat very calm under Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen's safe wings and did not touch VAT. But all of a sudden, there's been a revelation by the representative of Arild Grande, who thinks we have to do something about VAT. The party leader has said that it's difficult and maybe not even a permanent solution. For a period it was to be linked to management wages and dividends. We can take the Institute of Journalism as a quick example: most recently in the previous draft budget for the Stoltenberg government, it was to be stepped down. Now you've made a hustle and bustle here, too. Arild Grande invites you to a broad settlement. I like it if it's good ideas that stand for more than a few weeks at a time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2181	By a number of speakers, the need for a broad media settlement has been raised, and I am pleased that many have responded positively. Once the budget has been adopted and the new year comes, we may be able to sit down and discuss some of the basic principles of media policy – media support facilities, the role of the NRK for the future, the possibility of a new TV 2 agreement – a wide range of issues that make 2015 perhaps the most important year of media policy ever. I look forward to good dialogues on a broad basis in the Great Britain, across party boundaries, to looking at what we can come to an agreement on, and to reaching a grip that can stand up over time, almost regardless of whether we have a majority of governments that want to move towards the guided liquidation of what has actually been the pillar of Norwegian democracy in recent years, namely media support, which has built up under the great diversity that we have. That being said, it is always proposed to intervene from the government parties that will hit – with quite surgical precision – the diversity we have, but also the innovation we see in the industry. Therefore, there is reason to doubt that in the future there will be particularly whole-hearted attempts by the government parties to help a media industry that has challenges, not least to strengthen journalism in Norway and thus also to strengthen the free word. But we're going to keep the possibilities open to discuss this in a partnership, across the party boundaries. I am pleased that there are clear signals from the Council of State that zero VAT is now being prioritised first in the notification up against ESA. Of course, we're concerned with what constraint you add up here. We're really leaning on what's recommended from the Boundary Committee to the MBL, and we feel safe now that the Council of State is adding up to the same race. We need to follow closely the process towards notification and are also ready to discuss with the government when the outcome of a notification is available. Then I'm also glad that a joint committee is behind the comment on Rock City, and that it's being added to a process to look at any new functions or to continue the functions to take care of the competence. I would like an assurance from the Council of State that it will be a real process, so that we can go further together to find a new way for Rock City and the environment that you have built over time there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2192	The reason I took the floor for a new post was the government's lack of commitment to Nordic cultural cooperation. Then I think about the cut for Nordic Media Days and cut for New Nordic Films. It is paradoxical to hear the representative of Stensland go to the pulpit and be glad that the Christian People's Party and the Left have reversed the cut to their own government. I also want the Council of State to be able to comment on what is causing her to tickle all the popular cultural offerings across the country. Then I think about the new cut in connection with the cultural school bag, that film as a singer is being removed. I also think it is good for us today to hear the Council of State try to wrap up that they wanted to wind up the cultural spaser stick, but I also hear that she is responsive to the 500,000 signatures that came in. Finally, I must be allowed to comment on Ib Thomsen's report of the elderly as those sitting at the bottom of the table. I almost didn't think I heard right. The cultural walking stick shall ensure the dissemination of arts and culture of a professional nature outside the territory of older people. This isn't about who's sitting at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2201	We have probably come to that stage of the debate where there is a need to comment on some of the things that have been said earlier. Firstly, I noticed the representative Aasrud, who in his main post referred to the new word “arm length distance”. Yes, in a way, it does not surprise me and in another way, because I have read the budgets for the previous years. I understand that this is a new experience for the Workers' Party. For us, it's not, and it's been a long-term principle. The second is that several speakers have pointed out that this government and the cooperation parties have presented a budget with a lack of ambition. Then they've barely breathed before they've gone off our ambitions and picked them down – criticism of ambitions. Not least in the case of Talent Norway, it's very strange to hear the Workers' Party say that we have a budget here without ambitions, and so it's a historic effort to raise the talents of Culture Norway in all areas, with 30 million. NOK, yeah, maybe up to $50 million. NOK 60 million. kr and even more when you get in place to cooperate with foundations and others who contribute. It's not entirely related. The representative of Kolberg was very careful to say that the government's budget was not approved. Now I wasn't going to sit down with the calculator, but the budget that's now here is the government's budget, with some tiny changes. In the cultural sector, the government budget is largely adopted, and it has been reinforced in some areas. This is also true in the other framework areas. The government's budget has largely been approved, but, as there are always minority governments, there are adjustments in the Storting. It might not be that easy to remember after eight years in majority government, where very little happened on the Storting. So a little comment in the end about the media. That's the other thing that's commented on. The representative of Grande refers to the best-functioning media industry. Yeah, maybe if we look back, but we want to look forward. I would like to remind you that the government parties proposed a redistribution of the press support, to take something from those who get very much, in order to be able to give even more to those who have at least from before, I would have almost said, thus ensuring diversity. There was not much support to get from the Workers' Party at least.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2212	It is quite right that the government proposed redeploying funds on the health budget – a total of 15.4 million. kr – which was the share of the health budget in the fissure layer of the cultural spa. That re-disposal was justified on the grounds that the funds were to be used more for the individual use of music as treatment, especially to dementia. The change was due to take place from 2016. The municipalities would have had plenty of time to surround themselves. But in comparison with the Left and Christian People's Party, the funds for the Cultural Spaserstick – 30.8 million. kr – continued over the budget of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and the Ministry of Modernisation, so that municipalities can apply to the counties for grants. I believe that there is a good location of such resources, all the time that the municipalities are responsible for the care services in the municipalities, including creating life-stricken and quality experiences for their elderly and needy. There is a lot of good work going on in municipalities, even in creating cultural entries in the care service. The cultural spaserstock scheme introduced in 2007 is a State grant scheme, but it does not fully finance the measures. Many Norwegian municipalities take great responsibility, including financially, for creating these cultural experiences. Some municipalities do not even apply for these grants, and volunteers do a lot of work. The representative of Kolberg said instead that ‘culture is an expression of democracy and of civilization’. For our most vulnerable patients, demenspacers, culture and music are even more, I'll almost dare to claim. It's the tool that creates coherence in everyday life. Many of these patients are walking around anxiously. They find no longer any connection in everyday life. There's music as therapy, as treatment, completely unsurpassed. It reduces the use of medicines. There's peace in the department. It creates the quality of life for these patients. I respect the fact that the Workers' Party wants to continue the cultural walker as a system as they introduced it into government. What I don't understand, with the media's attention over the last few weeks on what is really the need in Norwegian care for the elderly – namely the need for more competence, for more quality, for fewer violations of human rights, for more quality in care – is that the Workers' Party did not want to contribute to the allocation of 15.4 million. kr for the development of local authority competence in this field. So it may be that there are music therapists who are going to contribute, but it's the employees who every day are going to use music in the care and create quality of life for those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2223	As former rapporteur, I am used to finding good solutions with the citizens. And all municipal politicians know that without volunteers the municipality stops. Without firefighters, the children would not be able to go on their favorite sport or on the spear, and the elderly would not have the extra meeting with one from the visiting service. Building sports halls is a major investment for municipalities, and therefore most municipalities depend entirely on the help of their sports teams to make this promise. Thus, in this interaction between local authorities and voluntary activities, the deduction of VAT and creates difficulties. That is why it is a great victory that we have had a system of VAT compensation. The disappointment was therefore great when the red-green parties cut in this post on the way out of the government offices, which caused us to start in the headwind. In the last year, we've been recorded by sports teams that they've had their compensation cut to a much greater extent than expected. In the case of small sports, such extra costs may mean that they will never dare to invest in such projects again. And that can simply put out the spark of the most dedicated fireshell. Good cooperation requires respect for one another, and where some kutter when they have power, fortunately this government has shown that they take the voluntary sports seriously. We have now increased the scheme, so that full compensation can be provided. In addition, we will have a review of the legislation around the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2234	Repeatedly in this debate, the Council of State has been challenged as to why these very special cuts go beyond the basic plan of Norwegian culture. We notice that she does not respond. She will have the word after me now, so in case she has the chance for the first time during this debate to give a rational explanation of all these strange cuts, which I also talked about in my first post. If she doesn't, there's only one answer, and it's close to what I've been talking about in my previous post, that this is an expression of a basic liberal thinking at the Council of State, a desire to dampen the public sector's activities in the cultural sector – also at grassroots – in order to push the music audiences, school classes and everyone else into the commercial world. It doesn't surprise me. These are right-wing people, that's how Right-wing thinks, and it's of course that the entry of the Progress Party into the government offices enhances this considerably. That's why I asked for the value conservative Right. Where's it gone? They would never have done these things that we are discussing in this debate. So I'll draw the attention to one side of the case that I think is too little comment. It's that some of the most concrete, special and serious things we've experienced in this state budget are the attacks on the NRK. NRK is the country's most important cultural institution, I would argue. It is the NRK that really communicates culture, knowledge, entertainment and news to the Norwegian people, who keep Norway together, with everything it represents. Once the right-wing parties are given the chance to do so, they shall stop the development of the NRK economy. I kept saying – although I almost don't mean it – that it gets to be that they do it, but when we hear the representatives Thomsen and Eidem Løvaa say something about the NRK, the cats are out of the bag. That may not be a parliamentary expression, and I apologize for that, but at least that is a good expression. What they're saying is that the NRK doesn't have to get in the way of commercial broadcasting. Have you heard the husband? They say here – that the NRK has to subdue, so that they don't get in the way of the power of money in the field of broadcasting! Both of them say that. They even talk about not editing the programs, but that the NRK has to stick to the business and not go into the areas where the commercial channels work. Oh, yeah! Then we see why they're trying to punish the NRK on their wallet, and then we understand what right-wing policy is against the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2243	A brief comment to the representative Martin Kolberg and his concern about the Right is a liberalist party and whether we have left conservatism. I can reassure him that we have not left it – conservatism is relatively staggering in the middle of the Right into which I signed up quite many years ago. I understand that this is the issue of private capital, which is the challenge of the representative of Kolberg. I want to say that how individuals – you and I – choose to engage in society is quite crucial to how society actually evolves, and that is the ideological starting point for our policies and also for our cultural policy. Private involvement and private capital are about the effort that some of us actually make as individuals, who also determine which society we live in. I'm quite a lot out there traveling around and looking at a lot of great cultural offerings, there's an incredible amount of private capital that helps to make a difference in the whole country, that's helping to fund an addition to what the public effort stands for, and I can't with my best ability and will understand that it's going to be part of raging any offer. It had to create an even greater diversity by opening up some incentives that could help bring even more private capital into cultural life. That is at least what is wanted by this government. Very short in the case of the Culture Council: the evaluation carried out in the case of the Culture Council has been on an extensive consultation, and there are two different proposals, which can be grouped in two different stages. One is the budgetary one, which has been decided upon in connection with this budget. The second is the organisational changes. There are many proposals for changes that we now have to assess, and if there are to be any changes in the Norwegian Culture Council law, this must be done in a comprehensive consultation. It is clear that this will end in the Storting, so that you can have a good debate on it. A very brief comment on this with the NRK: I want to take a great distance from that it's a rage of the NRK. The NRK will have revenues of more than 5 billion. kr from the broadcasting fee in 2015, and I think there is a significant room to adjust the cost side, without one necessarily going to reduce the content offer noticeably. Nor do I think it is reasonable that the NRK should be protected financially at a time when the profitability of the media industry is being weakened and many private-funded actors have to tolerate significant cuts. It is also the case that, based on the NRK's own estimate, we will receive 10,000 new licensees in 2015, and only that will increase NRK's revenues by approximately. Twenty-five million. kr. We're going to have a good opportunity to discuss the NRK in its full width, because I have the ambition to come back to Stortinget with a message for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2256	The representative, Rigmor Aasrud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2259	I need to recommend the representatives Thomsen and Tønder to read the 261, which we received from the Ministry of Finance in connection with the budget. It says about VAT on sports facilities that the Ministry finds no reason to believe that the amount of the application will be lower in 2015 than in 2014, and it says that the allocation of the State budget will grant an amount of about 63 pst. It's the government's greeting to Sport Norway. So I need to draw attention to a proposal that is to be voted on here today. There are a few quite specific sports facilities, such as the Vikersund hill and the Lillehammer bob and ake track, which have specific operational challenges. The plant at Lillehammer is Norway’s second largest ammonia user. We're suggesting that you label 10 million. funds for that purpose, and hopes that more people will consider voting for this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2267	It was the representative barrels that made me take the floor, for her story about VAT compensation for sports facilities cannot be unanswered. First of all, it's not right that it was reduced last year. Secondly, that scheme was introduced five years ago, and each of the years under the red-green government gave the scheme 100 pst. Compensation — except in 2012, when it gave 90 pst. compensation. Then you get in a situation where the activity on the construction side is high. That's good, because that means that many people take the initiative to do something about the plant shortage that's in sports Norway. Then you have to do something about it. Then it's true, as the representative of Aasrud says, that what you put in the current year is fine, but for next year you're going to risk getting a big lag again or getting a lack of compensation from a number of sports teams. That problem must be addressed. Instead of addressing that problem, I find that right-wing representatives are trying to create a story that is not correct. There are good opportunities to address that challenge in the future. One of them is to introduce as a rule that sports facilities are to have full VAT refund, so no competition for this budget pot that has been this year and that was not the previous four years, because then it was 100 pst. coverage. It was under the red-green government. So a few words also about the media: The Council of State said that this budget does not frustrate the NRK. No, it doesn't, but you have to say that when you hear the representatives Eidem Løvaas and Thomsen here today, you wonder what the Right Party is and the Advance Party wants with the NRK. What are the thoughts and potentials of development seen in the NRK? Is the whole thinking around NRK that the channel should be limited in relation to commercial channels such as TV 2, P4 and others? Is that all the thinking about the NRK? That editorial activities of the NRK should be limited to concentrate on narrow and commercially uninteresting concepts, and that government or collapse should go into and draw sharp limits on what the NRK can develop from content production or not – which are not to compete with commercial actors – is a totally impossible idea even in terms of editorial responsibility and independent journalism. I hope the government will choose to think differently for the NRK. It's not public broadcasters that block commercials. The world’s most vibrant media systems have high levels of press support, high levels of newspaper consumption, strong competition and also good public broadcasting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2282	I look forward to the big news about NRK and NRK's business. There I think we're going to turn many stones, but put the very most back where we found them. I want to clean up a little bit in the somewhat gloomy picture that is being painted, because when the representative Kolberg talks, it sounds like the idea is to put the NRK to life. That's not right at all. From my point of view, there has never been any statement about the content of the NRK. That's what the broadcaster decides, and meddling with the editor's institute would be very wrong and go against everything I think and think about the media. On the contrary, I said that in order to maintain the legitimacy of the licensees – i.e. you and me – it is important that the NRK is of high quality, and it is important that they give us an experience that makes it feel right to pay the license. So that's not the content you're looking for. But more than every five editors and more than every five journalists in Norway work in the NRC. It's Norway's largest media house. It is Norway’s main media house, and it has almost 5.5 billion. NOK of yours and my money. Not to have a critical look at it and not approx. Every eight to ten years make a big deal if it would be a discharge. Of course, we're going to go through NRK's business. And of course, we're going to be careful in a sector that has major challenges and is in great transition, that they don't create unnecessary obstacles for the other media, regardless of who owns them, and regardless of whether they're covered by the public broadcasting concept, like part of the big media houses, or whether it's in the case of newspapers or others that publish. I think you should be a little bit careful with painting with a broad brush when you talk about the crisis in the media. It is very easy to resort to words like freedom of speech, democracy, attack and rage. I think it brings the debate down to the wrong level. I wish we could stay a little bit above that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2295	The Youth Council sent its clear greeting to our committee and to the Council of State that they want to keep cultural cards for young people. The cultural school bag loses one foot – film – that sings. For the third and last time, I ask the Council of State: what is the reason for a building up of popular-loving schemes in Norway? I'm not talking about arrangements that sometimes jump into and out of the state budget. I'm talking about schemes that are incredibly popular, that create reactions. That is what the Council of States should respond to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2300	First a few comments about NRK. It's like we in the government want to build our policies on knowledge. That is why we have launched several investigations to obtain documentation, including: in the case of forms of financing, consider whether the current licensing funding is an appropriate solution for the future. This investigation is complete. In addition, we can imagine focusing on whether there is a need for more external production, whether there are opportunities to actually expect the NRK to increase its external production in the years to come. There's nothing that the NRK is against. Thirdly, it is also an important element to look at the interface between the commercial operators and the NRK in this case, whether there is something that needs to be reviewed. So, as I said, we have a good opportunity to come back to the content of the NRK when we need a message. I have an ambition that there will be a broad consensus in the Storting on the principles to be used for the future NRK. Just a brief comment on what's going on about Vikersund. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have given advance commitments on investment grants to the ski airfield in Vikersund and also an exceptional operating grant to the bob and ake course at Lillehammer, distributed from the games for sport purposes in 2015. The main distribution of these games for sporting purposes in 2015 is adopted by the State Council at the end of April, but we have given advance commitments of 5 million. kr to the national ski facilities and advance commitments of 2 million. kr of the funds for Lillehammer Olympic Bob and Akebane, both in 2015 and 2016. This is a good basis for meeting them too. I think it's important to stress that the tippers, the system, have largely gone to installations. It is true that these can also be used for other types of purposes, but mainly, with the large lag in installations, I think it is very important that the tipping agents are used for installations in the future as well. There has also been a question of the unanimous comitology on Rock City. I have noted the Committee's comments and will ensure that there is a good process with regard to the signals coming from the Committee. So to the final question from the representative Haukeland Liadal. Politics is to prioritise, and there are many things that have good purposes. I have registered that some of the schemes that have been implemented, we have actually chosen not to give priority, and that is the basis for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2313	First, I appreciate the feedback from the Council of State on Rock City. We owe the environment in Namsos, which has built up a lot of expertise and made investments based on the mission of the Stortinget and the Ministry of Culture, to have a real round of how to maintain the skills and investments that have been made, and to find a way forward for the environment up there. I like those signals, and we have to follow that process closely. I think it also makes it possible to discuss how to strengthen other environments of competence in rhythmic music, and want to have dialogue on it. Svein Harberg had a visit to us in view of the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party proposed a ceiling on the production grant, and that other newspapers were supposed to benefit. Well, the ceiling proposed would have released 7 million for the 2014 production grant. kr. So the government cuts 50 million. If you actually think that this should benefit other local authorities, then that reasoning is not entirely appropriate. It's serious about the NRK, but it's really a red thread considering what the government is doing in a wide range of areas in the field of culture. You cut first, then you have to alert a review to find out what you want with the area you cut in, and then you've actually put the Stortinge chess in a lot of ways. So also in the case of the NRK, where you alert a message about the NRK to next year, but then you cut down quite drastically now and leave to the board of the NRK to make the changes that it cut, without the Stortinge being presented with a case or given the opportunity to say something about what you want with the NRK for the future. So I just want to finish by saying that the debate has been very interesting. I think we've got some of the points of view made by most of the parties. It has even gone so far that Kårstein Eidem Løvaas has accused us in the Workers' Party of both being too gloomy and too positive on behalf of the media industry. Martin Kolberg has apparently been too gloomy, I have apparently been too positive. It probably indicates that we have found a pretty golden medium, and I encourage more parties to approach the positions the Workers' Party has taken for a new and forward-looking offensive media policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2324	Now we've discussed for so long that the whole speech system has gone hot, because now we get 3 minutes of speaking time no matter how many times we've been up before. Then it is tempting to continue. The reason I took the floor was simply that I needed to thank for the debate, thank you for the clarifications that may or may not have come. There's a lot of exciting work ahead of us in the cultural committee, there's a lot of work in the government that we're going to discuss later on, and that's good. I also want to thank the Committee for good cooperation. There was a hectic budget call, which was demanding for all parties, but we got on target. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2333	It is good that the error goes in the favour of the representatives, and that it divides fairly evenly between the position and the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2336	It has been interesting to follow the debate. I have to say that Norwegian volunteering is really one of the root roots of our society in terms of participation in all the municipalities of the country. In its alternative state budget, the Workers' Party proposes a plant lift for Norwegian sport of 400 million. kr per year over three years, i.e. 1.2 billion. kr. It would have given Norwegian sport a big boost and would have allowed it to slow down significantly today. At the same time, the change in key up to 64 pst. over 300 million. kr more to Norwegian sport every year, which is very important. But there's also a danger signal here, because if we move more tasks into the key, it'll mean that it'll be smaller to civil engineering around. That's why I think it's important that when we move in several types of projects, whether national facilities or other projects, it has to be financed in addition to the games. I think that'll be the best thing for everyone. We should have had an OL request that didn't make any of it. The whole of political Norway was committed to meeting Norwegian sport with a plant promise and not least to hosting major international events in Norway in the years to come. I record as positive that the government has contributed to the World Cup on bicycles in Bergen, not least the Arctic Race of Norway. However, the challenge in the future is that when special federations, circuits and sports associations want to launch application processes for the EM, the World Cup and the OL, it should be done in close dialogue with the government. At the same time, it may be appropriate to set up a separate fund, an event fund, where special federations and organisers can apply, and not to allow lobbyists to operate with committees here in the Stortinget or with the government, but to predict that it is predictable that anyone who assumes responsibility around Norway to host large international events will receive good and broad support through a dedicated event fund that can be financed from the State budget. Otherwise, I agree with the representative of Aasrud who said this about national installations. We have the plant in Vikersund and the bob- and ake track, special facilities where not only investments are needed, but also resources for operating to create activity in these facilities in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2347	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2361	There is a joint committee that presents its position on this matter and there is broad agreement on the importance of protecting minors from the harmful influence of living images. Society has a responsibility to facilitate access for children and young people to media content that is of social and cultural value to them. It is enshrined in the Children's Convention. At the same time, children and young people have the right to protection against harmful content. In the bill we are discussing here, the government proposes three measures. One is an obligation to set age limits on video programmes falling within the scope of the law. The second is an obligation to inform about the age limit, and the third is an obligation to implement protective measures, including ensuring compliance with established age limits. The Committee endorses the legislative nature of these measures. Furthermore, the government proposes that the decisions of the Media Regulatory Authority under the law should be subject to appeal to the Media Complaints Board (MED) as today, among others. deals with complaints under the Broadcasting Act, and that the bill implies that the complaint subject of film and videograms is closed. In order to enforce violations of the obligations laid down in the Protection Act, the Ministry proposes to authorise the Media Regulatory Authority to take decisions imposing penalties for detected infringements. The Committee also agrees. Furthermore, the Committee believes that it is important to cooperate with other Nordic countries, in order to ensure the best possible protection of children in the various media, and as the Committee sees it, this is something that the Minister of Cooperation can take up through the Nordic Council of Ministers in order to achieve an even more active policy in this area in the Nordic region. Finally, the Committee asks the Government to consider whether it might be appropriate to provide for a mechanism for complaints to be submitted to the Ombudsman for an opinion before the case is decided by the Boards of Appeal. It has not been proposed by the government, and for that reason it has not been at the hearing either, but in any case this is a question that should have been resolved without the law. With that, I present a unanimous vote by the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2380	I am pleased that a joint committee supports the government's proposal for a new law on the protection of minors against harmful image programmes. Last year we marked the 100th anniversary of the central film censorship, which was established in 1913 by the law on the public display of cinematographic images. At that time, the cinema was the only channel of communication for living images. Today the picture is dramatically changed – with 70 inch flat screens, HD projectors, children's PC, 3D TV, “laptop” in the bag and multimedia mobiles in the pocket. Live images can be collected almost everywhere and in any context — from sources that can be closest anywhere in the world. Norwegian children and adolescents aged 9 to 15 years spent almost four hours on TV, the Internet, DVD and cinema on an average day in 2013. The increasing presence of audiovisual media in the lives of children also increases the risk of coming into contact with potentially harmful content. Therefore, the need for a good and effective law for the protection of children and young people has never been greater. The new media reality illustrates, however, that we cannot have ambitions to control everything. A small group of media inspectors can't just make the media world safe for our children. The proposal therefore involves the accountability of the industry itself, which is given tasks related to setting age limits, informing about them and implementing safeguard measures. It involves the accountability of parents and supervisors, who will be guaranteed the information and tools they need in order to take this responsibility into practice by means of the legislative proposal. In addition, the law must be seen as a single element in a broader picture, covering both other parts of the legislation, measures to promote the production of quality content aimed at children and young people, and measures to promote knowledge that can help make children safe and competent media users. In a media world that is in practice global, international cooperation and coordination are important. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has highlighted the need for Nordic cooperation in this area and will follow this up with my colleague, the Minister for Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2395	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2409	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2418	As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation, where the Committee agrees and agrees with the Government, which will now change the distribution key for the Norwegian Typing AS surplus, i.e. the key – this to strengthen sport and cultural purposes outside the State budget. Today is 56 pst. of the surplus from Norsk Tipping AS for sport purposes, 26 pst. for cultural purposes and 18 pst. for social and humanitarian purposes. The size distribution is 11.1 pst. and King 14.9 pst. of the means for cultural purposes. The Committee supports the proposed amendment: new key with effect from 2015 with 64 pst. for sport, 18 pst. for cultural purposes outside the State budget and 18 pst. to social and humanitarian organisations. In particular, the Committee notes the importance of this amendment, as it has been shown over time that the amount of application and application amounts for the construction of sports facilities have increased. In addition, construction costs have probably also increased over the same period of time, which may explain some of the increase in the application amount. Until then, it is gratifying to say that there is a joint committee dedicated to changing the key to strengthening sport and cultural purposes outside the State budget. But here the consensus also stops, as in the same case changes to the lottery law are proposed so that poker games held at private homes between people in close proximity are legalised by holding in line with given terms. I would like to point out here that poker games held at workplaces, restaurants, pubs, hotel rooms, ships, etc. are not covered by the amendment. The Sundvolden platform between the government parties – the Right and the Advance Party – shows that it will allow championship tournaments in poker with clear financial limits by way of exceptions in law, and that decisions on new game concepts will be taken by the Lottery Authority. The government will also distinguish between addictive and non-addictive lottery icons. The Right Party and the Advance Party will point out here that the proposal will be in line with the general legal opinion that friends teams are given the opportunity to play limited forms of poker in social gatherings without violating Norwegian law. The Department’s assessment of gambling addiction as well as the assessment of private poker poker games by the Liaison Authority in GAM-GaRD, an internationally recognised game classification tool for the development of gambling addiction, is that there is a low risk of developing gambling addiction in private poker teams, played according to tournament rules with one deposit per meeting and without the possibility of new deposits. It's important to highlight. In a debate about allowing poker, there are often many opinions and claims. I register, among other things: that the working party is concerned and considers that the lifting of this prohibition could have negative consequences in the long term. I think this testifies to something that might look like a double moral or inconsistency. In the proposal to allow private poker teams, the bet limit is set at NOK 1000 and up to 10 participants, resulting in a maximum win of NOK 10000 per game. With this as a backstop, you can ask yourself the question of whether playing games in Norwegian Typing can have negative consequences, where the Commission's input limit is NOK 100 000 per week and NOK 300000 per month. In fact, I don't remember hearing anyone express any concern about this game policy, which tempts with far higher gains – in millions of dollars. It could be that as long as it's called Norwegian Typing, it's not dangerous, it's not gambling either. I don't think anyone will play from home if it is now allowed to play poker in friends' teams with a maximum bet limit of NOK 1000 and a maximum win of NOK 10000. I am pleased that we can today remove another ban, which in this case will be in line with people's general perception of justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2437	The working party is pleased that the government is following up the plan that was made when the Stoltenberg government submitted Report. Article 26 on the Norwegian sport model and therefore supports I in the Committee's recommendation. Both sport and culture get a greater share of the gambling profit. Together with the humanitarian organisations, they receive profits from gambling in Norway. It is not just an important source of funding, but the main source of funding, for the thousands who work on a voluntary basis in Norway. The fact that Norway is at the top of the world in terms of volunteering is, of course, related to the fact that teams and associations have a reasonably good opportunity to finance their many good purposes. But volunteering does not take place, and – as the government itself writes in the orderly voluntary declaration that was launched last Friday – it needs predictability. It may not happen that ‘economy’ is not mentioned in the proposal for a voluntary declaration, because the government launches a number of proposals that challenge the very basis in the way Norwegian volunteering is funded. It also makes the bill to legalize poker, because the very principle that there is the volunteer to receive the profits of gambling activities is changing. The same goes for the proposal to license new games. New lotteries shall enter and compete for the players and the profits shall be shared between commercial operators and selected organisations. Surpluses of games in Norway shall no longer be reserved for volunteers; it shall now be liberalised so that commercial players can take part in the gambling surplus. Then it will be claimed that the proposal that is now being promoted means little. Yeah, maybe it does in dollars and cents, but the very principle that private individuals are going to collect money gains is new. I expect there are more people in this room who read VG Weekend. It should make any suggestion to change the Norwegian game system put in the drawer. And if you read the report from the committee of experts who presented their advice on Monday, the proposals will remain in the drawer. To the representative of Stordalen, I would say, yes, we are also concerned about the limits set in Norwegian Typing. If that's how the government parties share Stordalen's concerns, then the government council should take a phone tomorrow and tell Norwegian Typing that here you have to do something with these limits, they're too high, we're worried about how this can affect gambling addiction in Norway. It's up to the Council of State, because Norwegian Typing is something that's completely governed by ourselves. Then I think it is alarming that the Council of State has not taken any care of checking out the relationship with ESA in this matter either. The fact that illegal poker is being played in Norway today can neither be a guarantee that the case is unproblematic for ESA, nor that there is reason to make it legal. For us, the voices of voluntary organisations Actis, Norwegian Association for Game Problems and Game Addiction Norway are more important than liberalisation. Therefore, the Labour Party will vote against II in the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2454	As far as I am concerned in the Committee's recommendation on the matter, the Christian People's Party also agrees with the distribution of the gambling surplus proposed here. This is in so far as a case is a continuation of what a previous staging has decided. So we are happy that we have now fulfilled what has been a promise, both to sports and to other recipients over the key. We're glad it finally came into place. It is important, and the Christian People's Party supports it. On the other hand, the Committee's recommendation does not support the Christian People's Party. We have a long tradition in Norway that, as far as gambling policy is concerned, the gambling surplus benefits voluntary and socially useful purposes. Poker has no surplus to distribute for voluntary teams or social purposes. This is something new that the government wants to put in place. The Christian People's Party does not agree with this. Then I want to say that the Christian People's Party is not a party that puts the brakes on just because we think it's so funny to put some traces in the asphalt. That's because we have some concerns about what's being proposed here. It's pointed to the exclusive model. I'm not going to stand here and be Norwegian Tipping's high protector. I fully agree with Stordalen that Norsk Tipping also has some things they should clean up, including. what's about the maximum sum of what you can play for. But the exclusive right model also has a social policy issue, and that is the means we have as politicians to manage gambling policy. The Christian People's Party is very concerned that we are going to have a development that enables us to give up the means that we actually have today to steer the game policy. That is why the Christian People's Party is against this. We're not going to open up too many licenses outside of the exclusive rights model either. What we're a little bit concerned about now is that government parties choose to push away a snowball that starts rolling, and that's hard to stop again. I say this, because if you go into the matter, you see that the government had one starting point, but just because there was a hearing response from the Norwegian Poker Association, they doubled their efforts. What was the point was that you went to play for 500 kroner per player, and the max was going to be 5000 kroner. So Norwegian Poker Association thinks it was too low. So in the process, the government chooses to listen to them. That's why I'm saying that I'm afraid you've now begun to push into a snowball that probably won't be able to stop. What do you do then, if the Norwegian Poker Association comes back and says that NOK 10,000 is basically a little bit small, and nobody becomes addicted to gambling if you increase it to NOK 20,000? Do you have any arguments to be able to say no to that? Probably not. The Christian People's Party has a lot of concern, and every time it's about introducing new games, there's one thing that's far ahead in a KrF, and that's exactly what's going on about what this is doing with gambling addiction. We know that there are many thousands of people in this country who have a problematic relationship with game policy, and we don't have to be so that they get it even harder, or that there are even more people who get a problematic relationship with it. That's why you have to have an awareness of what you're doing with Norwegian gambling policy. As I said, the liberalisation we see here does not agree with the Christian People's Party. Otherwise, I see in the matter that the government says that according to the government's action plan against the game problems, the Lottery Authority will do so and so. What kind of action plan against gambling addiction is the government looking for here? I hope that the Minister of Culture will be able to explain what this action plan is all about and how it will be able to cope with what I have shared, which is our concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2471	I will only use a few words to justify the position of the Centre Party to the proposition and the setting that is currently being treated. Let me first of all sign out the law of the new key. Political policy has already been adopted. The centre party is pleased with this change and the opportunities it will provide for increased sporting activity, not least in the civil engineering sector. The most controversial thing in this proposition is probably the proposal to legalize private poker teams, a proposal that might seem a little dependable. But in the opinion of the Centre Party, the government here moves the limits of gambling policy as such by allowing a game of profit to be held without revenue being for humanitarian or social purposes. There is also a margin shift that is about the legalisation of a gambling game that generates gain without any regulation. The centre party has no desire to criminalize card games among friends and can understand that some people find it a taste of premise to refuse people to set up a pot for fun. At the same time, we believe that it would be difficult, yes, almost impossible, to find a precise demarcation that makes it possible to prevent this from slipping out. We see that the government has tried to frame the proposal to limit the amount of both effort and profit, but we believe from the centre party that the defined limits of the proposition unfortunately also allow interpretation. Who are considered close enough friends to be said to belong to a private poker team? How can a person enforce compliance with the financial limits in line with the law? The centre party is concerned that legalisation will be an invitation to withdraw this activity beyond what is the intention of the proposal. A little hint about this is already present in the proposition, where the amounts of the permitted stakes and premiums in the consultation note were doubled following the argument from the Norwegian Poker Association. Obviously, the Center Party is not blind to the fact that even today poker games are winning, but the Center Party believes that today's ban, after all, has an important preventative and limiting function. Not least, it also detracts from a more extensive game, and in that way it slips out. Legalisation of private poker teams hardly poses the greatest threat to increased gambling dependence. However, I think there is reason to point out that the legalization of poker can also contribute to more temptations to participate in new games with fast winning. Against this background, the Center Party believes that there are not enough weighty reasons to open up more private poker games, looking up against the negative consequences such a type of legalization can give. We are therefore going to vote against the motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2490	The distribution of Norwegian Typing's surplus is done, as we have heard, via the key. With this bill, the government proposes to distribute the surplus from Norwegian Typing after a new key in 2015 by 64 pst. for sport, 18 pst. for cultural purposes and 18 pst. to social and humanitarian organisations. This is the third and last part of the phase-in of a new key. I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee that is in favour of this, and that we have now achieved the prerequisites of the Sports Communication on alift to sport. In the case of private poker teams: in Norway, all types of lotteries are initially prohibited, according to both the Lottery Act and the Penal Code. In order to be allowed, such games must have a specific legal basis. Poker is a game that has not been permitted under the Lottery Act. Nevertheless, smaller forms of poker are played among friends in private homes. The government proposes a legalization of private poker teams, so that it should be possible for friends to play smaller forms of poker without having to apply for permission. The purpose of this legalization is to provide people who want to play poker among friends in private contexts, a legal basis for doing so. Opening up private poker teams will mean that a game form that many Norwegians are already involved in will be held within an orderly framework and under Norwegian law. I believe this would be in line with the general legal position. In order to ensure that poker teams do not get an organized or professional look, the government has proposed a number of restrictions. Poker teams cannot be left to assist against payment. A deposit limit per participant per meeting of SEK 1 000 and a ceiling of 10 participants in a private poker team have been proposed. The prohibition of gambling on credit and the 18-year age limit for participation are also part of the restrictions. So when the government proposes a legalization of private poker teams, it's about poker games held at private homes, between people in close proximity. It is not permitted to hold such poker teams in the public room, in workplaces, restaurants and pubs, hotel rooms, on ships or the like. Private poker teams will also be able to be held only on condition that such forms of poker do not get an organized or professional impact. Thus, it is not permitted to establish gambling clubs or to hold major tournaments and events in private homes. So the organisation of poker where the organizers make money on this, or private poker teams that get the impression of a continuous or lasting activity, is not allowed. I would like to stress that legalizing private poker teams does not involve a free slip of poker in Norway. This form of poker should be allowed according to clear limits. The lottery supervisor has assessed the risk of poker games in private poker teams. The form of private poker teams covered by the proposal, with restrictions on deposits and the number of participants, is considered to have a low risk of developing gambling problems. According to the Government Action Plan against gambling problems, the Lottery Authority is to continuously evaluate the impact of legal gambling in Norway in terms of gambling dependence. Supervision will also be given a specific mandate to evaluate the impact of allowing private poker teams after three years. Following today's gambling and lottery legislation, Norwegian Tipping has the exclusive right to hold the biggest and most extensive gambling and lottery games, as well as gambling and lotteries with a high risk of gambling problems. However, under EEA law, lotteries are allowed to be offered to a limited extent by operators other than Norwegian Typing. The proposal to allow private poker teams will not lead to extensive new gambling activities. The proposed deposit limits and ceilings on the number of participants mean that the economic scope will be limited. In addition, the risk of gambling problems has been assessed as low. In view of this, I believe that legalising private poker teams will not challenge the exclusive right model as the basic structure of the Norwegian gambling market.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2511	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2514	The Council of State clarifies that a number of limitations have been made in the authorisation that is now contained in the legislative proposal, including: there shall be only 10 participants at the same time. How has the Council of State intended to ensure the enforcement of the bill?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2519	There are questions about how to oversee private poker teams, and I'm aware that of course it can be difficult to supervise them, since this activity takes place in private homes. But I guess most people who want to play poker for less money, want to do this legally. The legislation that we have promoted will enable those who want to participate in such games to do so within legal frameworks, and it will draw a clear line against illegal poker events.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2524	I note that the Council of State does not have any opinion on how to follow up a bill that she is presenting today. I can then follow up by asking how an action plan against gambling addiction, which is an important tool to reduce unwanted gambling behaviour in Norway, should be able to be asserted against the private poker teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2530	The action plan that has actually been adopted – it was the previous government that promoted this action plan, and it runs until 2015 – also follows this government. We think it is a good action plan, and we also see the need to make any necessary changes for 2015 regarding how this should be followed up. I stress again that it has not been considered that there will be a great risk of gambling addiction with such small amounts as are outlined here and arranged for. It is expected that this will not contribute to gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2535	I understand that there is an action plan, and that action plan I am pleased that the Council of State seems to be good, but that action plan was put in place before allowing poker, and then you should have a thoughtful idea of how a game that is going to happen in private homes can benefit from such an action. Here is the question: Will the Council of State take the initiative to revise that action plan so that a new target group can also be reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2542	As I said, that action plan goes out next year – during 2015 – and we will then consider whether to change it, expand it or at least evaluate how effective it has been, and then come back with proposals for a new action plan to prevent gambling addiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2547	Implementing power is a concept that this government likes to use. It is good and, in many areas, the government has shown implementing power – Segway has been allowed, suspension engines have become cheaper, there is a 110-kilometre limit on motorways and increased alcohol ratio on tax-free. Now the government allows poker, and next week we're going to discuss pro boxing. Does the government and the Council of State think that this is what brings Norway in a more correct and sustainable direction and makes Norway a country that is good for everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2554	The government works every day to try to help the country prepare to be rusted for the future, so that we actually get a better society to live in. So it's like we're a minority government, and we're betting on having a majority with, among other things. Christian People's Party and Left. Sometimes we register that it's one of the parties that supports us. The most important thing for us to get this executive is that we actually get a majority, and that's what we're working to do. So I want to say that in terms of this proposal, it's a little legalization. I think it's drawing it well far what I'm recording that both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are doing here. The deposit limits are very low, and they have been changed correctly after the hearing bodies have recorded, but we believe that these limits should not be set so low that they are not covered by the people most regarded as acceptable, for example. in the case of private poker teams. Although borders are raised, there is no expectation that this will lead to gambling dependence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2561	I'm not going to exaggerate the fear that people will become addicted to gambling by a lower limit of NOK 1000 or NOK 10 000. But I'm recording what the government did while we were working on this, and it was going from its original proposal, which was NOK 5000, and NOK 500 per deposit, to double it. My question is, what if the Norwegian Poker Association comes and says that you, NOK 10,000, it was a little bit small, we can't double it to NOK 20,000, because nobody becomes a game addict if we set it to NOK 20,000? How is the government going to stop a snowball that we're afraid has just begun to roll?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2566	I do not feel that this is some snowball that has started rolling. The government has said that we want to get to a liberalisation, we want to allow the private poker that many today actually engage in illegal in Norwegian homes. By allowing this change of law, one actually helps to make it legal. It's a fact that many people are doing this today, and then I think it's incredibly important that you also allow it by making this law change. Then we will follow developments quite closely. We have a lottery control that will also have the opportunity to follow, and then we will have to make the necessary assessments afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2571	As I said, I'm not going to exaggerate, but I think it's a little weird that you use the argument that there are so many people doing this. In other words, there are so many who break the law, and then it is important to change the law, or remove the law, so that what is illegal becomes legal. That's pretty interesting. There are many other offences we also see daily in Norway. Is this the beginning of a cleanup in laws that are based on this government thinking that you should do things legally just because there are many who break the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2576	When it comes to legalization or liberalisation, I think it would be incredibly great if we could get the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left in many of the changes that it is necessary to make it possible to achieve a better-adapted society, a more modern society, in the years to come. Then we will ensure that we get to the implementing power that the representative mentioned at the outset. I believe this is a very good and sensible measure. We know that this is happening around many Norwegian homes today. It's small amounts, it's limited. Now, in fact, those who have a conscience also have the opportunity to do this in their own homes, with a limited number, with a limited sum. I don't think it's going to lead to gambling addiction, nor is it going to lead to money laundering – that's something that Ecokrim also said when one had the hearing that was. So I'm not worried that this is going to trigger any snowball roll.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2583	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2588	This is just wild guessing, but unlike the others on the pulpit in this case, which I guess has not played poker, I have actually played – and play – poker, which I’m not at all alone about. About 8 pst. by the population, i.e. over 350,000 Nordics, play poker actively, either online, abroad or in informal poker teams in the basement. This year I had the pleasure of participating in the Norway Championship in freeroll here in Oslo. There were about 1,000 participants. It shows that the interest in this is enormous, when so many people choose to attend a free event. For years, however, poker games in Norwegian soil have been punishable, and Norway and Albania are today the only countries in Europe that prohibit people from playing poker with money prizes. Given the high proportion of poker players in Norway, it is understood that the law is being passed and needs to be renewed. The time has come to legalize poker and allow the active players to operate legally in Norway, which we now have the opportunity to contribute by liberalising the legislation dealing with private poker teams. This is a rule change that should have been in place a long time ago, but I note that the resistance to this is still present, and that the arguments, among other things. is afraid of gambling addiction. People in Norway today can play away a lot of money on the offer of Norwegian Tipping, but they do not get the opportunity to play poker about money. This is not a matter of concern. Skill games such as poker are illegal, while several of the games for Norwegian Typing have several tens of millions of dollars in the pot, literally: Lotto, bingo, rulet and pure happiness games. But games of happiness are clearly unproblematic for, among other things, The representatives of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, for if the player loses, the money goes to Norwegian Tipping, who in turn gets to distribute them for good purposes for which these representatives can be involved and take credit. On my phone I have the Norwegian Tipping app. Here I can set the amount limits for what I want to bet at Norwegian Typing. So the amount limit is NOK 40000 per day, they're NOK 100000 per week and NOK 300000 per month. They have remained unchanged for years, without the attention of the politicians who have now raised the issue of gambling addiction. The representatives of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have no problem with this, because the fear of gambling addiction is absent as long as Norwegian Typing and the state market it and get part of the cake, but to allow a friend to enjoy poker a Friday night, where they can lose a maximum of NOK 1000, is irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2608	I just have a few comments. First of all, this wonderful problematization of how to follow up on this with the legalisation of limited private poker teams: Yes, it should well be followed up in the same way that the ban should be followed up, and it will probably be easier and will require fewer resources. So just a comment on this with game policy in total: we very much agree on what is happening now with the distribution of the tips. But there is no doubt that we have a major challenge in terms of game policy overall, and how we are going to deal with it in the future in a constantly changing market, and where we have a responsibility to help those who are suffering from problems around gambling. I think that's something that at least we in the committee agree that we should take seriously, and look at how we can promise. Then we have to be willing to also look at the games that are already going on in Norway, and whether they work as intended, or whether they are a challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2615	I'm going to be quick and not extend the debate, but I want to round it – because at least now there are no more people who have signed up. A small summary: It may seem that those who are against allowing poker at home feel that it is wrong because it is difficult to enforce the law and the law. That can't be easy. Today, it is obvious that it is very easy to run around in everyone's home and see if you operate legally when you play. I haven't heard of anyone who's doing it yet, but the police are probably doing it too. This is probably the exact same way, but now you can at least play about something at home. There is also talk of this not going for societal purposes. Well, for me, it might seem that as long as you can't somehow tax what's going on at home, you can't allow it. It has also been said that there are no serious reasons to say yes. No, but are there serious reasons for saying no? Is that it? Turn around the problem: this government actually wants there to be a little bit more freedom for the individual. That's important to some of us. But for others it's not; for them it's about what you say politically is right to do at home. They also asked why this should be introduced, in addition to Segway and what it should be. But why in the world have these bans been introduced? I would rather have asked questions about and spent time on that, and resources. Some have written the laws. Some have spent time on it, too. This is one of the prohibitions we want to remove – not because I think it's important, but there are many who think it's important, because they play and think about doing it in legal forms. I don't think it's a big crime if you play for 1000 kroner at home. In fact, I think it has to be better than spending 40,000 kroner in Norwegian Tipping a day.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2628	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2634	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2688	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Sonja Mandt on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 2, 6 and 7, by Sonja Mandt, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 3-5, by Geir Jørgen Bekkevold on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the economic and administrative consequences of a statutory right to family protection par therapy within three weeks of the request.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2719	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 5, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to assess the reintroduction of three hours of compulsory mediation in the event of a break-in of life’.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all parents are offered parental guidance courses.’ The Central Party has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2743	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for 10 million to be set aside by the government. crowns within the scope of the instrument allocation for operating aid to cost-intensive installations of a unique national and international nature, providing functions for international events.’;» The central party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2753	SV shall also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2758	The Socialist Left has also announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2770	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to fix the broadcasting fee for television receivers at NOK 2 600 excluding. value added tax.’» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2789	There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to revise the action plan for the LGBT population’. The Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e2808	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for review of the child protection sector in order to ensure that public funds granted for the purchase of private child protection services are used for child protection services and that any withdrawal of earnings does not at the expense of the provision of children and employees’.» The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e5783	It shall be counted above A, the Framework Area 2 I up to and including VI and B, the Framework Area 3 I up to and including VIII. The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e5798	It's over A VII. The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e5812	It is votted over A IX. The Socialist Left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e5817	The SV shall vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e5822	The Socialist Left Party then draws the warning to vote against and vote for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e5834	It shall be weighed over A VIII and B IX. The President has reason to believe that these are unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7320	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7330	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7384	It shall not be counted against II. The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7389	SV shall vote in favour of II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7394	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7399	It is still possible to correct the vote. We haven't finished yet. The vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7414	It is then voted over I and III. The President has reason to believe that these are unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7426	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7436	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-10.ana.ud1663e7448	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
