ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e74	The representatives of Inbjørg Amanda Godsskesen, Kenneth Svendsen, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Per Sandberg and Sonja Mandt, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Micasen, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e94	On behalf of Tove Karoline Knutsen, Ruth Mari Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Audun Otterstad and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to avoid a mix of roles in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e99	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e113	At this time 25 years ago, Europe was still trapped in the grip of the cold war. The Iron Curtain continued to hinder half of Europe from travelling and spreading freely. Night until February 6, 1989, young waiter Chris Gueffroy was shot and killed in an attempt to escape across the Berlin Wall. We didn't know it then, but he was going to be the last one. A scarcely generation ago, a sea of events since — the countries behind the Iron Curtain have gone from one party state to democracy, from a planned economy to a market economy, from alignment to review of Europe’s diverse cultural heritage. Now they're our NATO allies, they're members of the EU, and they're our partners in the EEA. The European policy of the government is about the values we believe in, the value creation we live on, and the friends we depend on. European cooperation is the greatest peace and democracy project in history. The EEA Agreement, which has served Norwegian business for more than 20 years, is part of this project. Norway has everything to gain from close interaction with those who are our closest friends in the international community. The public debate may sometimes give the impression that the EEA Agreement restricts the rights and opportunities of Norwegian citizens and businesses. It's a basic mistake. Yes – the EEA Agreement sets out the rules of the game within important parts of our economy and our society. And yes – sometimes the detailed regulation can go a long way. But the important thing is that it is a common set of rules in Europe and that Norwegian companies and citizens can access a larger European community through the EEA Agreement and other parts of our contract with the EU. In areas where there is a need to regulate the single European market, one common rule is better than 31 different national rules. Common rules extend the rights and opportunities of Norwegian citizens. Therefore, maintaining and further developing the EEA Agreement is an offensive Norwegian interest. Therefore, the EEA Agreement is a pillar of Norwegian European policy. In a year of celebrating the Constitution, it is worth remembering that in 1814, as in 2014, we were in a European context. The Constitution was inspired by European thinking, thinking about the rule of law, balance of power and fundamental freedoms – no of course then, no of course now. But this is in many ways the core of what is 'Europe': rules for the protection of the individual, rules for protection against abuse of power. The events in Ukraine remind us that these principles are not obvious – even in Europe in the 21st century. Against such a hindrance, we see even more clearly the importance of being part of a European cooperation that provides peaceful coexistence based on common values, international principles of law, economic integration and collective security. It made sense to see tens of thousands of people spend hours in bitter cold in demonstrations to require the President of Ukraine to sign an association agreement with the EU. At the same time, the protests in Kiev showed that an EU in its deepest economic and social crisis is still attractive. This appeal has to do with European integration offering both greater political freedom and increased economic prosperity: when the Berlin Wall was demolished 25 years ago, Ukraine and Poland had about the same gross domestic product per capita, today the Polish is twice as large. The crisis in Ukraine and Russia must provide an overall European response. A well-functioning common foreign policy for the EU is more important for Europe than ever. Europeans rightly expect the EU to be the guarantor of respect for international and democratic principles in Europe and to be promoted in the neighbourhood. Norway can contribute as a good partner here. It is particularly important because the crisis in Ukraine, and the main responses from Western countries to Russia’s behaviour, are constantly being addressed in EU bodies. For Norway as a non-member country, there are some challenges. In the current crisis, it is essential that we show solidarity with our allies in NATO and coordinate with our partners in the European Union. The ongoing dialogue with the EU on security and defence policy is therefore important in order to know what is happening in the processes taking place in the EU. Dialogue is also important to further develop cooperation between Norway and the EU in the field of foreign and security policy. In particular, the development of EU defence capabilities is important. Through such close cooperation, we stand up for fundamental values in Europe. That is why we have chosen to end the EU's restrictive measures. Furthermore, in consultation with our EFTA partners, we have decided to postpone further negotiations on a free trade agreement between the EFTA countries and the Russian-led customs union. After the change of power in Kiev, the political part of the association agreement with the EU is now signed. Efforts are being made to prepare the ground for the remainder of the Association and Free Trade Agreement to be signed. The agreement will bring Ukraine a step closer to the EU and commit it to important reforms. Although Ukraine is the largest single country in the EU's Eastern Partnership, the Union also contributes to the other countries involved in this cooperation. Association and free trade agreements with Georgia and Moldova have already been negotiated and the EU has accelerated its objective of signing them by June this year. Norway supports the EU in the further development of the Eastern Partnership. We finance projects in all partner countries and work to coordinate these efforts with the EU and other donor countries. We also contribute to project efforts in the framework of the EU's Eastern Partnership, and we participate in an information and coordination group established by the EU for third countries. Active Norwegian efforts and initiatives to support the Eastern Partnership countries will only become more important in the coming years. It is also important to support the EU neighbourhood policy to contribute to economic, political and social development south of our common Schengen border. It is in our interest that the countries of the Middle East and North Africa should become more stable and give their inhabitants greater economic opportunities. This is an area in which development, foreign, security and European policy is closely linked, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs also placed emphasis on North Africa in his presentation to the United Kingdom earlier in the year. North Africa represents major security challenges for Europe. Weak and fragmented economic development, high unemployment, sometimes weak authority control and porous border crossings pose challenges related to organised crime, terrorism and, in particular, migration flows in transit towards Europe. We see the migration and security challenges in the Mediterranean region in a close context with the need for broad and long-term international involvement in both the countries of transmission and transit. It is therefore in the Norwegian and European common interest to contribute to building inclusive policy processes and institutions in the southern neighbourhood and to contributing to stabilisation in the region. Norway’s efforts in North Africa are based on close interaction with the EU and should be seen as part of the development of a comprehensive Norwegian Mediterranean policy. As part of this overall approach, we are now strengthening efforts in Tunisia. Tunisia is the leading country in the wake of the ‘Arab awakening’. Democracy in the country has been marked by inclusive political processes, where moderate Islamists and secular forces have reached agreement on a democratic constitution unlike what we have seen in the region. The success of Tunisia in its democratisation process is absolutely fundamental to the stability of the country and important for the rest of the region. The relationship with Tunisia is given high priority by the EU and the EU Member States, as part of the EU’s southern neighbourhood policy. As a Schengen and EEA member, Norway has a common interest with the EU in achieving sustainable stability in North Africa. An escalation will, among other things: be geared towards democracy and rights work, job creation, the environment and energy. It is natural that Norwegian efforts in Tunisia should be stepped up in close contact with the EU. The instability of the European neighbourhood, both south and east, reminds us once again that European policy is about the values we believe in and the value we live in. Between the EU and its neighbours, there is both a gap in prosperity and a gap in freedom. Norway shall be involved in extending the fields of prosperity and freedom in the neighbourhood of the EU. In order to influence the formulation of EU policies, we need to participate and participate in the arenas we have. Our impact is greatest when we engage in political processes at an early stage and contribute to solutions that are good for both Norway and Europe. Just the need for early involvement is the guiding principle of the government’s European strategy, which is presented in a short time. The strategy shall remain in force until the roll-out elections in 2017. It outlines the main priorities of the government for European policy and how we should work to achieve them. The strategy highlights that early involvement requires early transparency and debate in EU policy-making. Let me give some examples of important political issues that the government prioritises, and on which we therefore want to debate, both with the Biggest and in society at large. Norway has heavy interests in energy and climate. Recent events in Ukraine have put energy security even higher on the European agenda. Norway is a significant supplier of both renewable and non-renewable energy to the European energy market. Through the EEA Agreement, Norway participates fully in the internal energy market. Norwegian gas is sold mainly on the European market and is essential to ensure energy supply in Europe. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change also highlighted natural gas as an important bridge to the renewable future in April. The long-term EU strategy choices will be of great importance to us. In addition to completing the internal energy market, this spring there are two important and partly related processes in the EU. In March, the European Council asked the Commission to submit a plan to reduce EU dependence on energy imports. The plan shall be presented next month. It shall address the diversification of energy sources and transport routes, the improvement of energy efficiency and the development of infrastructure, including to third countries. Energy markets operate according to commercial principles. However, since Norway is an energy producer and a wholesaler of energy to the EU, action by the EU will in practice affect us. The European debate now also circulates proposals that can go across the open and market-based solutions we have in Norway and the Nordic countries. It is therefore important that we follow this work closely, assess the importance for us and give our views in the debate. The second process concerns the design of the 2030 EU climate and energy framework. The final decision is scheduled to be taken by October this year at the latest, so that the EU has an ambitious policy in place before the climate summit in Paris in 2015. In two speeches before the meetings of the European Council in December and March, we have made our views known. The Government welcomed the Commission’s proposal for reduced greenhouse gas emissions and underlined the importance of further tightening of the climate quota system. The Government agrees with the Commission that the internal energy market must be completed and that integration between countries should be strengthened. This will contribute to improved resource use and energy security. In view of new targets in 2030, we in Norway have underlined the importance of well-functioning energy markets. Energy policy in Europe must be designed in such a way that sensible investment is actually carried out. We have shown that Norwegian hydropower can interact well with the European power system and that the use of natural gas can play an important role both in balancing new, non-regulatable power in the EU and in replacing coal. The EU's own objectives are not binding on Norway. However, they determine the framework conditions of our main trading partners and follow-up legislation in the EU can be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The government will therefore continue to follow these processes and continuously assess the need for further Norwegian input. Our clear ambition is that any new recordings should be formulated and transmitted in real time, not in retrospect. Another area in which the government wants to raise the issue before discussion is the export of social security benefits. Freedom of movement is at the heart of the common Europe we are – and want to be – part of, where each of us has the freedom to seek work in a community of 31 countries and 500 million people. In two days we will mark the 60th anniversary of the common Nordic labour market, which is a cornerstone of close Nordic cooperation. On 1 May, 10 years have passed since the enlargement of the EU to include 10 new Member States. After enlargement to the east of the EU — and thus the EEA — Norway has been among the countries throughout the EEA area which, in relation to the population, have accepted most of the new Member States. Work placements from the rest of Europe have served and serve Norway well. Not least the districts benefit from this labour force. At the same time, individual challenges face a high level of labour mobility. Several factors suggest that Norwegian social security exports will increase in the years to come. Robust Norwegian economy and the needs of Norwegian enterprises for labour, combined with continuing high unemployment in other parts of Europe, indicate that persons from other EEA countries will continue to come to Norway to work. At the same time, a growing number of Norwegian citizens want to spend part of their lives abroad. The principle of free movement of persons and non-discrimination based on nationality is fundamental to ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for the benefit of all. On this basis, we need to assess whether we have found the right balance in our welfare services, so that we both support the right to free movement of persons within the EEA and ensure long-term sustainability. The government is therefore reviewing issues relating to exports of welfare benefits in a European context. It is important to stress that the government does not want to stop or reduce pensions paid to people living outside Norway. Pensions are benefits that are normally earned over longer periods and through the payment of charges. We will look at the possibilities for change in other areas, such as: family allowances, cash benefits and daily allowances. This is a debate that is not just going on in Norway. That is why it is important that we take this debate now — at the same time as our partners in other European countries. This is also an area where Norway has useful experience and knowledge to contribute to the European discussion. Let me also mention a third area where it is essential that we are early out, namely the so-called trade and investment partnership – TTIP – between the EU and the United States. Such a partnership is currently being negotiated and could involve a quantum leap in the economic relations across the Atlantic. It can have great ring-effects for us. 70 pst. Norwegian imports of goods come from the EU and the United States – and they receive a total of 86 pst. of our exports. The Ministry has carried out a preliminary analysis of the impact of TTIP on Norway. I would like to stress that there is a need for optimism in the first place: the TTIP is likely to generate significant economic growth in our two deciduous main markets. It will be beneficial for the Norwegian economy. At the same time, we should not underestimate the fact that we are facing potential challenges. TTIP could provide exporters in the EU with better conditions in the US than Norwegian exporters. At the same time, Norwegian exporters will be able to lose their advantage in the EU in view of competition from the United States. Norwegian maritime food exports in particular may be seriously affected. The competitive situation of Norwegian fish exports is likely to deteriorate significantly, as Norway does not have the freedom to export fish to either the EU or the United States. Seafood is our second largest export industry, and the future growth potential is significant. Therefore, Norway has a strong interest in increasing access to the sea food market. This takes the government most seriously, and we will work for improved market access for fish, among other things. through the EEA Agreement, and assess all possibilities to ensure optimum access to the US market. Norway’s rights in the EEA will not be formally changed as a result of an EU-US agreement. Norwegian business will continue to deal with a common regulatory framework throughout the EEA area. At the same time, it cannot be excluded that the agreement will provide guidance on the direction in which legislative developments take place. The EU and the United States have different views on the precautionary principle and regulate areas of different importance for health and the environment, including: chemicals. At the same time, both parties stress that the agreement should not change the level of protection. The reduction of technical barriers to trade, mutual recognition and common procedures form an essential part of the TTIP negotiations. These are also core areas of the EEA Agreement. It is too early to say how the Commission will involve its expert groups and committees, where we also participate through the EEA Agreement. But there is reason to believe that they will be involved as the TTIP dialogue progresses. It will therefore be important that we take advantage of our participation in these groups, as well as using all other available channels to get information and promote our views. At the EEA Council on 13 May, we therefore underlined the importance of TTIP for the EEA/EFTA countries and the need to be kept continuously informed by our colleagues in the EU. This is ultimately about Norwegian welfare, Norwegian employment and Norwegian competitiveness. Strengthening Norwegian competitiveness is one of the main areas of government activity. We can never be the cheapest, so we have to be the smartest. For this reason, the government will place great emphasis on knowledge, research and innovation. The EU Programme for Research and Innovation Horizon 2020 and the EU Programme for Education, Youth and Sport Erasmus+ shall contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the EU’s overall strategy to strengthen European competitiveness. Norway participates in these two programmes, and our financial contribution is significant: as it looks today, at today's exchange rate, we will contribute approximately. 23 B.C.E. kr for the period 2014 to 2020. The government is therefore concerned that our participation is being exploited in the best possible way. We need to ensure that teachers, students, researchers and business leaders across the country are well aware of the opportunities for EU funding for their projects and help them to win the competition for funds. In this way, we contribute both to strengthening the quality of Norwegian research and education and to strengthening Norwegian competitiveness and value creation. The Union market is the second most important market for Norwegian industry. The Government’s objective is to ensure that Norwegian enterprises have the best possible access to this market through a level playing field and predictable framework conditions. It is therefore important for Norwegian industry to limit delays in the transposition and implementation of new EEA legislation. The number of acts adopted in the EU but not yet incorporated in the EEA Agreement is now almost 600. We work with our EFTA partners and the EU side to get this figure down. In this context, it is worth noting that we are waiting for treatment on the EU side in an increasing number of cases and that the ball is not with us. There has been a significant reduction in the number of cases for clarification on the Norwegian side, following the government’s accession. Joint actions are now being implemented under the EFTA and national measures in each EFTA country, which we expect to have a positive impact on the slowdown in the longer term. There is reason to believe that the results of this will start to appear later in 2014. In parallel with the developments I have just mentioned, important work is continuing on ongoing EEA issues. Let me mention some of these individual things in the following. The new EU enforcement directive was adopted a week ago. This Directive is important to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Broadcasting Directive. It can help prevent social dumping. It is good that EU countries have managed to agree on a common platform for better enforcement of broadcasting legislation. The agreement allows countries to introduce national control measures in addition to the measures listed in the Directive. It is in line with what we have been working for the EU, and will enable us to develop and continue our arrangements for posted workers from EEA countries. Let me not least address the important issue of the new EU guidelines on regional aid, which regulate the system of differentiated employer charges. This process has seriously revealed how important it is for us from the Norwegian side to follow up and say so. The new rules, which were adopted last summer, limit our ability to reduce employers’ fees in more sectors than in the current guidelines. Since the change of government, we have had a dialogue with the EFTA Surveillance Authority and contact with the Commission on the sector exemptions in the new guidelines. The aim is to promote Norwegian views on the interpretation of the legislation, to obtain clarity on concrete effects and to find remedial measures. We are working for the narrowest possible definition of sectoral exemptions in the new guidelines and a distinction between horizontal and more sector-specific instruments. As part of this work, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation sent a letter to the Commission on 28 April. Last week I met the Commission, which concluded that the decisions taken in the summer of 2013 were firm but invited to a more detailed dialogue at expert level on the interpretation of the legislation and on which other forms of support would be possible under the new legislation. As the Minister of Finance has announced, the government will make its own proposition in the matter. The government has noticed that on 8 April this year the EU Court of Justice declared the Data Storage Directive invalid for privacy reasons. Now it is up to each country to assess the laws to be adopted in this area, within the framework of the Human Rights Convention and the EEA Agreement. The Prime Minister made it clear by letter of 11 April to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy that it is not appropriate to introduce such legislation in Norway until the Grand Duchy has been brought before it again. There are also several important individual issues in the field of energy. The EU's objective of a functioning internal energy market from 2014 will be achieved through three energy market packages. We are now looking at how the third energy market package can be integrated into the EEA. Further investigations are being conducted with the Commission on Norwegian participation in the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) and other adaptations. We are working to clarify the necessary adaptations from the Norwegian side by the summer, so that we can send the matter back to the EU for a decision on inclusion. I also want to mention the internal market for electronic communications. This is a growth industry where Norway is a significant player. The Commission presented a package of measures to develop the European internal market for this sector in the autumn. We want a harmonised regulatory framework for electronic communications and a harmonised application across the EEA area. An independent and advisory body of the EU, BEREC, composed of the supervisory authorities of the EU Member States, is central to the development and implementation of legislation. We are therefore working to give the EEA/EFTA countries full participation rights in BEREC in line with the EU Member States, with the exception of voting rights. EU agencies and supervisory bodies play an increasingly important role in EU cooperation, both in policy-making and in the implementation of legislation. Norway is part of a number of these agencies and their supervision. There is a growing tendency for the EU agencies and supervision to be given direct decision-making powers, raising questions regarding both the typilar structure of the EEA Agreement and the relationship with the Constitution. The starting point of the two-pillar structure is that the exercise of powers vis-à-vis an EEA/EFTA State is to be exercised by an EFTA body. With regard to the Basic Law, since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, practice has been to deal with new EEA legislation under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution, where the consent of the Storting is required. The second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution is interpreted as allowing for the transfer of powers to an international body having direct effect against legal entities in Norway if the transfer of authority is considered to be ‘low intervention’. If agencies and supervision are given decision-making powers over private legal entities that are more than ‘low intervention’, EEA adaptations will be needed. The purpose of such adaptations is not to give special advantages to EFTA States but to adapt cooperation to the basic principles of the EEA Agreement and to our institutional framework. It will be difficult to conceive of functioning EEA cooperation without formal links between the EFTA States and the EU agencies and supervision. Ultimately, this could lead to a loss of market access and inequality in conditions of competition for Norwegian companies and other interested parties. In addition, participation in agencies and supervision allows us to participate in EU policy development and to participate in professional networks, as well as access to information that is crucial to national implementation. The government therefore gives high priority to finding solutions for our participation in new EU agencies within the established EEA cooperation framework. In the field of justice and home affairs, there are also agencies in which it is necessary or appropriate for Norway to participate. They are not many so far, and none of them have decision-making powers that raise issues of the kind I have just mentioned. The government focuses on finding good solutions for Norwegian participation in such agencies as well. Within the EU and the EEA, people are increasingly moving across borders. Unfortunately, this also applies to the criminals. Norwegian prisons have an increasing number of prisoners with foreign citizenship. Adherence to the EU Framework Decision on settlement transfer could provide a better opportunity for the transfer of criminal foreigners to the home country than that resulting from the Council of Europe Convention. Today, we are giving high priority to concluding bilateral agreements with the countries concerned following the same principles as the EU Framework Decision. Let me return to evolution in Europe. I am pleased that there are signs of economic improvement, although there is still considerable uncertainty. Last quarter last year the euro area economy grew by 1.1pst, as an annual rate. That was the third quarter in a row of positive growth. Unlike before, this time the growth was broadly based. It was the first time since the first quarter of 2011 that economic activity has increased simultaneously in all the major euro area countries. Even in countries such as Italy, Spain and Portugal, the economy is now showing signs of improvement. And when Greece in the last month for the first time in four years released government bonds for sale, the market reacted more positively than expected. Strong cuts have brought public finances to a more sustainable path. Financial policy will also help to reduce the demand for goods and services in the current year, but to a much less extent than in previous years. However, unemployment is high and it may take time to achieve sufficient growth to substantially reduce unemployment. The social challenges will persist much longer than the economic challenges. In several countries, the financial crisis has highlighted the need for structural reforms. These changes will contribute to enhanced competitiveness and new growth. It will facilitate the operation and reduction of the high debt burden both in the private and public sectors. In addition, the EU has strengthened economic policy cooperation. An example is the establishment of a banking union with common banking supervision, a common crisis management authority and the gradual establishment of common crisis funds. Common EU-wide legislation on dealing with crisis-prone banks has also been agreed. Several of these reforms affect the internal market and therefore go straight to the core of our cooperation with the EU. This applies, inter alia, to: the establishment of common EU financial supervision, which is relevant to the Norwegian authorities and financial institutions. We want to be involved, but a solution should be found within the framework of the Constitution § 26 and the EEA Agreement's top pillar structure. It is difficult to find a solution that meets both our needs and those of the EU, but it is important to find a solution as soon as possible. Until such time as a solution has been found, the acts establishing the supervision are not to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement, nor are acts conferring additional powers on the supervisory authorities. New Deposit Guarantee Directive was adopted in the EU in mid-April. The harmonisation of the level of coverage of national deposit guarantee schemes to EUR 100000 in the 2009 Deposit Guarantee Directive has continued in the new Directive. However, a transitional period has been granted up to the end of 2018 for countries with a coverage higher than EUR 100000. In practice, this is a separate transitional arrangement only for Norway. For the construction of funds and payment periods, the Directive provides for a transitional period of 10 years. It is therefore only after 10 years that the deposit-guarantee system has been harmonised in the EU. The Deposit Guarantee Directive confers competence on the EU Banking Authority, EBA, which means that the Directive cannot be incorporated into the EEA Agreement until a general EEA adaptation to the EU financial supervisory authorities has been found. After finding a solution to the supervisory agency issue, we will work towards the EU in order to clarify how the Deposit Guarantee Directive is to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. The government will keep Stortinget informed about developments and the further work on this matter. We see that the transition in the wake of the financial crisis takes time, also because we are faced with fundamental questions of cross-border solidarity, of the sustainability of the welfare state and of how social consequences can be addressed. These are major issues that require thorough policy processes both within each country and at European level. The loads resulting from the conversion must not weaken the basic trust between the rulers and the rulers, between governments and voters. This week's elections to the European Parliament may give a hint in this regard. Many have predicted that EU-critical wing parties will progress. Such winners should remind us of the importance of ensuring that major decisions are firmly democratically anchored. The economic crisis must not be replaced by a crisis of confidence. The financial crisis has also made it clear that we need a robust European market. The EEA funds are a contribution to this. Negotiations on new EEA funds and access to the sea food market after 30 April 2014 were initiated on 22 January. The EU's demands in the negotiations are a significant increase in our contributions compared to the previous period. The EU has proposed that a large part of the increase should take the form of a separate contribution to the fight against youth unemployment in the EU, including in EU countries which do not qualify for support from EEA funds or from the EU's own Cohesion Fund. This cannot be accepted from our side. We would like to welcome the fact that parts of future EEA funds can be used to stimulate innovation and growth so that more young Europeans come to work, but in the framework of the established criteria for EEA funds. We have so far indicated in the negotiations the willingness to continue our current contribution. In this context, we have argued that the EU's own contribution to economic and social cohesion is falling into real terms in the EU budget until 2020 and that positive economic developments have taken place in several of the beneficiary countries in recent years. Contributions shall be to economic and social development and cohesion. Only countries receiving support from the EU's own Cohesion Fund are eligible to receive EEA funds. Negotiations on the continuation of fishing quotas are ongoing in parallel with the negotiations on financial contributions and the processes are seen in the context. An important task in the future will be to find a sensible platform for the further process. It is the government’s view that the EU needs to change its approach. This is a message we have delivered – at the latest in the EEA Council on 13 May – and will continue to present in meetings with representatives of the EU and the EU Member States, both at political level and at the level of office. As mentioned above, initially the EEA Agreement is 20 years this year. But the agreement was not signed in 1989 – the year that Commission President Jacques Delors launched the idea of establishing a large economic area with equal rules, and not least the year when brave people went into the fall dark and hacked onto the wall. It was about choices for the future. It was about entering the European family. The EEA Agreement is our gateway to the European family. It was conceived in the 1980s, born in the early 1990s and a child of its time. But I finally want to underline this: the EEA Agreement has worked well for 20 years, and it still works well. It aimed to ensure that Norway could continue the course we set through much of the twentieth century, with close integration into European trade and habits, an open economy and an acceptance of free trade as a principle and as a basis for our well-being. We did that. It has given greater gains than many had hoped, and fewer disadvantages than many had feared. That's what the government is building on. The EEA Agreement has proved its main objective: to ensure Norway's participation in the internal market, with free movement of people, goods, services and capital. The results are seen daily in everyday life, in working life and in business. The freedoms and rights offered by the EEA concern both the values we believe in and the value creation we live by.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e241	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e255	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given following the speeches of the main speakers of each group and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e264	The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture has examined a proposal from the Landfill Representatives Kjersti Toppe, Liv Signe Navarsete and Marit Arnstad on the continuation of the cooperation agreement between the State and the non-profit sector and on their own bidding rounds for NPISHs in the field of child protection. Proposals underline the importance of protecting the ideals in the field of child protection. The proposers indicate that today the ideals stand for about 25 p.m. of the provision of institutions in the field of child protection. Without the hard work of NPISHs and the idealistic starting point, Norway and the Norwegian welfare state had looked completely different. Ideals have been involved in building societies and institutions for hundreds of years, such as drug use and drug use. Oslo Hospital, which was founded by monks already in the 1200s. Since that time it's been ideal to get involved in several areas, and today it's child protection that's in focus. NPISHs have for many years contributed good institutional services to the most vulnerable children in our society. These are offers with high professional quality and dedicated staff. An overall committee agrees that NPISHs are important in increasing diversity and ensuring good provision for children and young people in the child protection sector, together with the public and other private sectors. The Committee sees the need to provide good and long-term conditions for these organisations. Long-termity is important for many reasons. First of all, it's important for the children involved. These are children who have often experienced many fractures and movements, and who need stability to feel safe. Child protection is about relationships, and building good relations requires predictability and continuity. In order to achieve this, institutions and organisations operating the offer need predictability in their agreements so that they can build good and long-term offers and relationships with the children. An overall committee would also point out that there are pension costs that are the greatest difference in framework conditions between public and non-profit actors on the one hand and private commercial actors on the other. Remedying the differences in competitive conditions, which are a consequence of these historic pension costs, is important to ensure equal treatment between the various actors. The Committee is aware of the revision of the EU Public Acquisitions Directive and that this may have an impact on how to protect the ideals in the future. An overall committee would stress the importance of rapid government review of the impact of this Directive so that the necessary amendments and measures can be implemented. The Christian People's Party is very concerned about taking care of the ideal actors. Together with the public and other private actors, they are involved in giving a diverse and good offer to children in child protection, and we believe that the idealism and the values that ideals bring into the work have a self-esteem in our welfare society. We are therefore pleased that the government has on several occasions said that the cooperation agreement should be continued, and we expect this to happen, and that the ideals will continue to be guaranteed good conditions. We have received more assurances about that, therefore the Christian People's Party believes that it is not necessary to vote in favour of proposal No. 1 in the vote, but we will support proposal No. 2 on protected rounds of tenders. So I regret that by an incubator it has not been quite clear in the position how the Christian People's Party is going to vote on this matter, but then at least I have explained it from this pulpit. We therefore support proposal No. 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e283	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e286	The Government Parties, in their comments, cancel the distinction between commercial and non-profit institutions serving households. What does the Christian People's Party think about it? Does the Christian People's Party believe that there is a difference between commercial and ideal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e291	We've said on several occasions that there's a difference. Ideally, they have a unique character, they have a value that they bring into this, that's about non-profit. In terms of competition conditions, there are also differences between ideals, which in many areas may consist of just one unit and do not have those groups in their backs that we might see in some other areas in terms of private commercial. So yes, there's a difference between ideal and private commercial.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e296	Based on the attitude and what the government has put on the table in dealing with this matter, it is very difficult for us in SV to understand why the Christian People's Party does not support proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox There is nothing but a solution to the government's response and hope to continue the agreement with the volunteers, while they are very clear that they feel tied to the hands and feet of the EEA Agreement and their own interpretation of the rules that have come. Is it so that the Christian People's Party is bound by the cooperation agreement not to vote for this, when they so obviously agree with what is proposal No. 1?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e303	The cooperation agreement between the four parties is also about trusting each other and trusting that the answers given are followed up with practical action. I want to refer to an answer that the undersigned received from the Council of State Horne in the Questionnaire on 15 January. There, Horne says: ‘What I promise is that this government wants to play with the ideal organisations and the ideal sector. Therefore, the Government wishes to continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit organisations.» That's a very clear answer, and we have to be able to trust the government that they're following up what they're saying here in the Storting. Should it turn out that there is a completely different response and a completely different setting, it is a short way from word to action here on Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e313	Trust is also a question of saying what it is in many ways. The representative, Mr Bekkeword, said that the Public Acquisitions Directive could have an impact. In my opinion, it is not to say what it is. The Directive states that the deadline for implementation in the countries is April 2016 and that ideal private and commercial private are treated as equivalent. There is something that is being followed up by the Council of State. Christian People's Party's Great Representative Oluk V. Bollestad said in the Class Battle on February 19th this year: ‘We are willing to use the right of reservation if necessary to avoid the destruction of the non-profit sector.’ What is the representative's assessment of the matter now, when one sees what the Minister for Children and Family does with this? There is no question of «may» have consequences – it has consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e323	The representative of Lundtigen is absolutely right. It has – and will have – consequences for this sector too – for the non-profit sector. It shall be implemented in 2016. We need to use the time we have now to do what we can to create predictability for the ideal sector, by introducing a new cooperation agreement that has a duration that creates predictability. When this directive is implemented, it does not have any retroactive effect, so now we have to use the time we have to protect the non-profit sector, as the Christian People's Party has been calling for in the past, and as we are now also calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e328	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e332	Voluntary involvement and non-profit activities have long and deep roots in Norwegian society. The first organisations jumped out of the abstinence, mission and work movement, and there were organisations working on poverty reduction, public education, cultural memory protection, outdoor life, etc. The sources of revenue initially were mainly collection, gifts and membership contributions. Gradually, these organizations grew to become big popular movements. At the end of the 1800s and early 1900s, more organisations in health, social care and humanitarian work also flourished, and from the 1800s, organisations working for women's rights also emerged. Mission and abstinence organisations were also among the first to carry out social work for those in need. Gradually, the demand for better welfare for all grew, and that much of the good work done by the voluntary sector had to be organised in a safer framework, so that it could benefit everyone. So every time, the requirement for the welfare state grew up. Over several years, the welfare community has gradually grown in close and close cooperation with the voluntary and non-profit sector. We have many organisations that are making significant efforts in the field of care today. One area in which we see this clearly is child protection, which is currently being treated in this setting. If we're going to get good child protection for everyone, we're going to depend on predictability and continuity. It is obvious that one of the major differences between non-profit and commercial activities in this area is pension costs, but also pay and work conditions. It was therefore important that the red-green government, as a complement to the long-standing historical tradition we have in Norway, with a strong public sector with non-profit activities as a good and necessary complement, established the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector. Until today, the system has been that Buffetat first fills up the state institutional spaces, then that the non-profit organisations get to take part in a screened tender, just to protect the boundaries we see between non-profit and commercial activities, which are about the things I was involved in, pension, pay and working conditions. Finally, there is a third round, where all private operators can submit tenders. In the setting, the government parties are calling for a break of this line – a break of the historic, good tradition we have had in Norway with a strong public sector with ideal actors as a complement. The wording should be noted when the Right and the Advance Party in the adjustment say that the distinction between ideal and commercial operators is lifted. There is a historical breach of this tradition, which warns of a large-scale privatisation of this welfare field. We have made two proposals, and we should have wished that these two proposals in the Storting should have been extended. I cannot say that I feel secure from the signals coming from the government. Firstly, it is worth noting that Solvency Horne, in her reply to the Stortinget, says that she will ‘assess’ the continuation of the cooperation agreement – not the continuation of the cooperation agreement. That's a big difference. Furthermore, one has to ask: if one cancels the distinction between ideal and commercial, and if one does not take into account the historical costs of the non-profit sector, among other things. on post-employment benefit obligations, what is the basis for having a cooperation agreement? I hope that in the debate here we will be made clear: how to secure a cooperation agreement if these divisions are erased, if you no longer have a distinction between ideal and commercial actors? One thing is that the government parties do not support these proposals, but it gets worse when they comment on it the way they do. It is a pity that they choose the child protection field as the first for privatisation. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e347	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e350	I'll present the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e355	The representative shall be allowed to do so outside the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e358	With this, I am submitting the proposals from the Labour Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e363	The representative of Arild Grande then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e368	I record that the representative Grande has a great commitment to the need for predictability and protection for 25 p.m. by the Child Welfare Services – the ideals. He doesn't have the same exposure to the 25 pst. by the child protection services provided by the other private individuals. I think that's very strange. I wonder if Grande can answer how the Workers' Party will ensure a child the best offer in child protection when they're in a municipality with a variety of offers, but it's the ideals to be chosen over the others, regardless of the nature and quality of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e373	This would have been an opportunity for the Right to find out that you still want to have your own, protected offers for non-profit actors, on which there has actually been a broad consensus in this Chamber – that we should strengthen the non-profit sector. But you do not choose to cancel this break with the historical tradition you have – on the contrary, the foremost commitment, obviously also from Svein Harberg, to the commercial players. We have a good system, which has worked well, where we first fill up the state institutions, then we use ideal actors as a supplement where we need it, and then finally we go to the commercial players. The question has to be put back: is it that Svein Harberg sees that there is a burst of capacity in the non-profit sector, and that is why it is now necessary to go to the commercial operators to fill up several places there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e378	Then I'd like to follow up, since I didn't get an answer to my question: how will the Grande and the Workers' Party ensure that we get an offer for the best of the child when to prioritise in exactly the order he now referred to, and not take into account the diversity that is there, and the offer that the child needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e383	We believe that the system we have had works well, because we have many state institutions and have the opportunity to fill them up and prioritize it all first. Then you use the ideal actors, because we believe that one of the most important things we can give to children's protection is predictability, security and continuity. If we now remove the distinction between ideal and commercial actors and are to introduce more and more bids in this field, where there is more short-termity, where there is more focus on profitability, earnings and dividends, then we believe that it will compromise the security, predictability and long-termity that this field and not least the child-restraints depend so much on. We believe that the solution we have chosen is precisely for the benefit of the children to satisfy the needs they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e388	Since the new regulation, i.e. the EU decision, does not change the tendering rules and does not mean that there will be more frequent tenders or some things – none of the things Arild Grande replied to now – I will continue to ask the question: when there is a variety of offers in a municipality, and one might know that there is a private actor who has a better offer for the child, how can Arild Grande defend first to go through the others, and if there is a free space there, they should be used, even if what a private commercial person calls has a better offer? How, then, can one follow up on the best of the child and his needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e394	If there is no capacity available in state institutions, we believe that priority should be given to this. If it is available as a complement to it in the non-profit sector, we believe that it must also be given priority. The commercial feature should be kept as low as possible, because we believe predictability, safety and quality of service are the most important child protection children need. I would have liked a stronger commitment from the Right, which has previously claimed to be occupied by the non-profit sector. But that's not what we're talking about right now. On the contrary, in the question of Svein Harberg, I hear that this view has the Right in any case – it is believed that private commercial operators should be given priority. The directive is now being pushed ahead just to implement a policy that has been pursued all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e399	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e402	There is currently a great deal of attention on child protection and the provision of child protection around the municipalities. This is good, although the reason for the attention is shared. It is partly due to a number of media headlines on issues that have made it visible that even more can be done to ensure good quality assurance of the offers and to ensure that the individual receives the follow-up they will have. Unfortunately, there is another reason for increased attention to the growing need for child protection services, and of which there is a lack of capacity, and public Norway around the country is facing major challenges in providing adequate skills and capacity. Today, child protection providers are at the heart of attention. With the challenges we now face, it is great that attention is also paid to those who are to deliver the offer, but the attitude and debate reveal that a common desire for good services is reflected in various policy proposals. To the right, it is important to establish that the child’s needs are the most important in this debate and are the basis for the decisions we are making. Since there are individuals with different backgrounds and many different diagnostics and challenges to be offered, it means that there is also a need for a wide diversity in deliveries. Therefore, quality and adaptation to the individual is crucial. Today's offer is about 50 pst. of the public, and the rest of the ideal and other private – the last part also roughly divided into two. Regardless of the owner of the offer, a formidable work and a high level of personal involvement are put down. The employees of a demanding everyday life deserve a great deal of thanks. In a debate about suppliers, the reality is that we have no places to lose. The need is great, and it is therefore strange to experience the violent commitment to prioritize one group in front of another in the further purchase of services. An exposure to equal framework conditions would be far more natural, and would naturally get support from the Right as well. One of the arguments for prioritising the ideals has also been the difference in pension costs. A desire to facilitate the participation of those with high pension costs in real competition is not difficult to understand, but it is not that all ideals have the same cost picture and pension scheme. Child protection – like other sectors – depends on sustainable pension schemes, and finding a good way to solve them will be a challenge. The natural thing would therefore be to lift the pension challenge out of this debate, since the proposal in the case concerns sheltered tenders for all ideals, rather than pensions. The government wants to continue to cooperate with the ideal actors and will be in close dialogue with them to provide predictability and a good framework for the work. I am also pleased that the Council of State has been very clear about the desire to extend the agreement until we know what opportunities we have in the future. As everyone here knows, there is now a lot of evidence that the proposal that has been made in this case about sheltered offers for the ideals will no longer be possible. The new minimum conditions set out in the new EU Acquisitions Directive clearly restrict such solutions. The government has not received any support in its letter with a request for a derogation, but has thus launched a thorough investigation into the possibilities offered by the new directive. We in the Right are pleased that the government is so clear that attention should be paid to the quality and content of services, and that diversity should allow individual municipalities to choose the offer they think is best for those in need of help. It is therefore important that the ideal, other private and public offers are non-discriminatory in terms of both approval, quality assurance, supervision and control. In addition, there will be an important signal to employees that they are valued equally regardless of who is the sender of the payroll. I hope that we can gather together politically to lift the child protection offer, provide enough space, diversity and quality, put in place systems and procedures that protect the individual user's rights and needs, and through this we see that we reach those who need a handshake from us, so that they get a starting point that gives them security, opportunities, experience of mastering and quality of life. Then we must use all the good forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e424	Anyone who is aware of the situation of child protection must be on the mountainside that there is a quality to be met. In addition to quality, it must be long-term. One does not get any improvements without being quality and long-term. When the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party write in the vote that the majority ‘will emphasise that the idealism and the desire to help appear to underpin all private providers of child protection measures’; I must say that the term ‘idealism’ has a new content. What is now the strongest player in this field is the international group Aleris, which is owned by Investor AB, listed on Swedish stock exchange. Is it really that the Right now facilitates that there are those who are going to get a greater share of this at the expense of the private ideals? And then what are the consequences for the private ideals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e436	There is no doubt that quality and long-termity are crucial for us. Then it's not that the desire for long-termity is changed in what is proposed by us in the remarks. It is that all are treated in the same way in connection with the tenders, with the same requirements for approval and same supervision and control. As far as idealism is concerned, we talk about the employees of these institutions, who show a formidable commitment and have great idealism as a basis for them to work as much as they do, as hard as they do, and in the circumstances they have, just to help the individual child in a difficult situation. We are faced with the fact that there is idealism among the employees that is what characterises this offer, regardless of who is the sender of the pay slip.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e443	No one questions the idealism of those who work in this sector. But here it is that the Right and the Advance Party are warning a large-scale privatisation process, which will wipe out the whole non-profit sector from the welfare field. That's what's going to be the consequence if you have to compete on completely equal terms, when you don't take into account, among other things. the post-employment benefit obligations held by the non-profit sector. I would like to challenge Svein Harberg to say something more – because it is not explained well in the comments – about why this is so important to the Right. Why does the representative Harberg think that commercial actors must be equated with ideal actors in the field of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e448	We believe that it is important to give the same predictability and the same signals that we need them, both to the ideals and to the other private ones, precisely because we need all of these places. With rounds where one first has to fill up the public, so the ideals, and then the other places, create an uncertainty and unpredictability for the other private ones. It's been a challenge for them that they always come last in this treatment line, even though there are children near where they are, as they know they can offer a good deal. Then we lose two things: we lose predictability for some of the places that we absolutely need, and we make it harder to give the best offer to the children in each municipality, which is the main score for the entire child protection service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e455	SV is most concerned with the unpredictability of the young. The child-restraints have asked us not to be put to tender. That's the most important thing for us. But if it is now the case that the Right agrees that at least the same requirements must be imposed on all those who are going to be involved in child protection, is it so that the Right will support SV when we are going to make demands for termination of dividends and demands for the same pay, employment and pension conditions, whether private, voluntary or public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e460	I hear a comment that the representative has had earlier, which I think is very strange to follow: it is said that the most important thing is the safety of the children. Yet Andersen says that 25 pst. Of these places, there may be uncertainties — but one has to focus very much on 25 pst. 25 pst. of the child protection offer, which is in other private establishments, this uncertainty will, of course, arise as Andersen is afraid. That's why it's important for us to take care of all these places and all these children. As regards the non-promotion of tenders, it is not up to us to decide that there should be tenders. That's how it is today. What is proposed in the case, and which we are discussing, is the arrangements for the tenders. So to conclude that you do not want to submit a tender is entirely on the side of the case, because there is therefore a tender for this case, and how to set it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e467	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e471	Non-profit organisations are, and have been, important premiscuous providers and partners for the public in the development of health services. Today the ideal entry is about 25 pst. of the provision of institutions in the field of child protection. For the Centre Party, it is important to keep the ideal actors in the Child Protection Area. We believe that if you want to ensure that the ideal sector part is not reduced, it is decisive that the system of the display supply is maintained. There is also the background to our proposals asking the government to continue and follow-up the cooperation agreement concluded on 3 October 2012 between the government and non-profit organisations on the provision of health and social services, and that the government should continue the system of screening the supply of non-profit providers before child protection to at least the same extent as it is today. When it comes to the proposal that the government should continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector, we note that the Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee: ‘The government is now considering whether to conclude a new cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector and how to develop it further, if appropriate.’ This is in stark contrast to what the Council of State has verbally promised the Stortinget. That is why there is good reason to maintain this proposal. So to proposal No. 2, to continue the system of screens provided for ideal providers. I understand that the Christian People's Party supports this proposal. I was surprised when I read the setting, and I am glad that the Christian People's Party is there; I had expected it. That is to say, today, the Left Party is on the verge of this case. How can the Left Party live by voting down a proposal that is decisive for the survival of the non-profit sector? The main organisation, Working, said in their hearing that they look at the display of supply rounds and cooperation agreements as the necessary tools for non-discrimination between different actors as long as non-profit actors have poorer framework conditions due to the historical pension costs. The new EU procurement directive, which will enter into force on 1 January 2016, will no longer open, if implemented, for dedicated bidding rounds for non-profit providers. This is a fight that we're going to take, but there's no reason not to vote for today's proposal. In order to achieve quality, it is a matter of predictability, and the letter of award from the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion of the Ministry of Children, Buffdir, dated 29 April 2014, now states that new contracts for the field of child protection will be part of an open competition for the ideals only, but with a duration from 1 February 2015 to 31 March 2016. In my view, such short-term contracts are a violation of the requirement of what is defendable, and are not in the best interests of the children. So the paradox is that in the health field, Health Vest has entered into bidding competitions for the purchase of rust residues in 2014 only for non-profit suppliers. They have chosen to publish contracts of six years duration with the addition of two years of option. This shows, in fact, that it notifies the amendment to the Directive to remove the exemption for ideals, does not limit public access under current legislation to announce longer-term contracts in competitions only for ideals. It is a paradox when two departments — in the same government — announce competitions with such a wide variation in contract duration and with such a wide variation in the argument behind it. I don't think one can accept a duration of just one year based on the best of the children. I hope that our proposal for own bidding rounds will have multiple numbers in Stortinget today, and then we need help from our old centermates.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e498	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e501	I want to commend the representative Kjersti Toppe for always having an engagement with the children. I perceive that as real and well meant, also in this case. I just wanted to ask a question about this by dealing with all of these places that we need so much, roughly the same. We agree that there are some pension challenges here. If there was a scheme for the pension challenges, is it that the representative Toppe would think it was right, when they had the same starting point, to have open tenders for both non-profit and non-profit individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e508	It's the pension challenges that make it not equal today, which means that we have the screens on offer, because otherwise a non-competition would be on equal terms. If we got a scheme where the ideals were compensated for their pension challenges, it is clear that they had well tolerated a competition with the commercial ones. They deliver quality, and I'm not worried about it. But we also have to assume that today it's not like that. A new competition must be launched now and, as of today, we are extremely concerned that there must be a sheltered competition. Because if it doesn't, the ideals disappear, and it's too late to care about the pension costs if the providers are gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e515	To the wish to protect the ideals: I want to drill a little bit in it. With regard to the distinction between private and private – which is, moreover, a Central Statistical Bureau terminology and not new language, as I saw our country today – it is such that ideals today are considerably cheaper than private ones. But then it turns out that the state under the red-green regime has bought much more from the private than from the ideal private, despite the fact that the ideals are more reasonable. We think that shows that we need all of these actors, we need full transparency around the rounds, and we need to have more focus on quality requirements. It may seem that government jobs are more important than children's best, so the question is: why has it been in the previous years that the state under the red-green regime has bought more from the private than from the ideals, all the time they have been ideals more reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e522	What has been important to us is to make good arrangements that allow the ideal part to be maintained in the field of child protection. That is why the change came in the previous period when we introduced this with our own rounds of offers both in the field of drug and child protection. That doesn't mean it's a commercial entry. But we're busy with everyone we see, and we get feedback that the non-profit sector needs the help of politicians to survive in such an offer situation based on pension costs. We're concerned that ideals are an important element. If we don't take care of them, it'll only be the private commercial ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e527	Honor the representative Top and the commitment of children and non-profits. That's what I and the left share completely. As Toppe himself did well in the article and in the answer to the question from Harberg, it is the pension costs that are the central element. What also makes it a little more complicated is that when it comes to pension costs, not all of them have the same ideal pension challenges. There are differences between old non-profits and new non-profits, which have lower costs. So this is actually an old known problem. What would have been interesting to hear was: where was the same commitment from Toppe & Co. when they put themselves into plural government and actually didn't do anything to the challenges – which are completely independent of what we're really discussing today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e534	It's quite inaccurate to say that we didn't do anything when we were in government. Firstly, it was we who got the historic cooperation agreement between the state and the non-profit sector. That cooperation agreement was very well received by the ideals, and it was precisely the one to secure a dialogue up to a mechanism that could solve the pension challenges. Unfortunately, we had a big choice where we lost power, so now it's the responsibility of a government that Left supports, and it's their responsibility to follow up that cooperation agreement. We have a fight in Stortinget to make it happen. It was our government that introduced its own bidding rounds for this field, an action that the non-profit sector says is entirely decisive, and which we are now proposing to carry on with the help of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e541	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e544	When we debate the proposal to continue the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector and its own bidding rounds, it is a bit interesting to hear the debate and the argument both in the case and here in the Chamber. It has been said time and time again in this room already today that the previous government put up an order where you were to first use the state places, then you should have your own screened round for the ideals, and if there was anything left, you would use the private commercial ones. For this government, the children are the most important thing. There are not many who have been on this platform today, who have been busy with the children, but they have been busy with who provides the service – whether it is public or private. Something has also been said about the predictable and about diversity, that ideals are important. I fully agree with that – it is important for the ideals and non-commercials. But the most important thing is that the children have a good and diverse offer, and not who delivers it. With regard to the pension challenges, there are also private commercial ones with the schemes. We'll find that in Lunner. The Solhaugen Environmental Home in Lunner is a family business that has the same agreements and obligations. It sounds like it's just the ideal non-commercial who have it and live with it today, but there are also some private ones. In fact, the ideal non-commercials are often more affordable in price, despite the fact that they have the pension obligations to live with. I believe it is high time to discuss how we can get better offers and improve the quality of child protection. The former government parties and the red-greens have been overthrown for eight years, and they are talking in this room today about the importance of making a difference – discrimination in terms of whether it is public, private or ideal. In other matters relating to this committee, there is talk of equality – then there should be no difference, then it should be equal, non-discrimination. Then it's important; then it's especially important for non-discrimination. But when we come to some of the most important things we talk about in this room, children's protection – the most vulnerable children who end up in that situation can experience – and parents who lose their children, and when we know that about. 1 000 children per year are placed, never before have there been so many children in foster homes who need care, it is high time to discuss content and quality and increase skills, improve quality, increase diversity. Then this government is for equal treatment. I don't think it's going to be an erasure. I guess it was said pretty much from Grande that then it ended up at all the ideals. I don't think so. I don't think so. If this doesn't stop now given the number of places, there's a need for everyone and anyone we can get. I think that non-discrimination will sharpen everyone, all the actors, to arrive at the best possible result and the best possible quality, because that must be the most important thing. It's strange, as I said, when you discuss who's running the service, that you're not busy with content. And it's strange in this room, in other cases, in the same committee, that you're concerned with non-discrimination – because it's a gender perspective – but not when you get to the most important thing, the children. I miss the debate. Where will the debate on quality, content of child protection, diversity, take into account the best interests of children? I think it'll be in the hall, it'll be later today, it'll probably be next week too. How can we do it better for them? That's who it's about, not about us that's in the hall here. It's about those who actually end up in the situation, it's about all the little innocents who end up in a child protection situation, which we know is cutting so low on all teams. So we have to be concerned about content and a variety of services. I don't believe in an A4 system where all the services, all the content, all the offers are exactly the same either. I believe in diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e571	It's good to hear that Stordalen doesn't think this will have consequences. There are questions as to whether that belief is good enough for the child-restraint children. I'm calling for a greater commitment to the children this is actually about. Then maybe it's okay to listen to what's actually being said, because I think it's been a red thread from everyone who's been up on the pulpit, regardless of the party. I would like to refer to the answer given by Mr Bekkevold in a reply earlier in this debate. He was challenged by what is the difference between ideal and private commercial actors. At the same time, I would like to refer to a statement by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Children, and the Ministry of Gender and Inclusion saying that it does not matter whether the services are provided by public, non-profit or commercial actors. Who is the Granddalen who listens most to in this matter? Is that Bekkevold's definition of the question, or is it the State Secretary of the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e583	I'm listening to everyone. I'm listening to the people, to those who work in the Child Welfare Service, to professional advice from the departments, to the organizations and the suppliers, and I'm actually seeing the challenges today. The most important thing for me is the children, and my commitment is about the children – the best of the children, that there are offers for the children, and that there is a diversity. It is quite right, as it was said, that the most important thing is that the children get help, not who delivers the service – it is not the most important thing. The children this applies, are not concerned about whether it is public, private, commercial or non-profit-making. They are busy getting a safe home and a safe offer. That's everybody's busy, and that's what I'm concerned about too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e588	There must be equal quality requirements. The question is whether there will be a difference between who does the job. Obviously, if those who do the job are financially responsible for it and do it with a goal of making money, it will over time be more expensive. It's pretty simple logic. In Norway, health and care have been the responsibility of the community — both funding and operations — in an interaction with ideals. It has worked very well, and it has wide ups and downs. At the Progress Party, care is to be made into a market. Does the Progress Party really have any limitations on how far you want to go? That's the first question. The second is, if development shows that NPISHs are losing, will the Progress Party turn around in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e597	I take the last one first: As I said in a previous answer, I am concerned that it is the children and the help they should have, that is – not necessarily who will provide the service. I have also said in my post that I am concerned about the ideals. They deliver very well, and they often have the most reasonable offers despite the pension obligations. First of all, that the Progress Party should in a way expose and privatise most of it, it is that we are concerned that the service is provided and of the quality of it, not who delivers it. Regarding what the questioner is about: he should look at his own municipality, the central part of Re, how much competition has been put on for many years. It works very well despite the fact that private providers provide services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e606	These are the children, and the children say they want a safe offer and do not want to submit a tender. For this reason, SV is working to use smaller tenders and to build good, diverse public services and to cooperate with the voluntary sector – as we have done – precisely because there must be children's interests here and not that anyone can benefit from this, which must be at the bottom. I really hope so, too, for the Progress Party. The party of progress doesn't believe in us. They should perhaps consider what Freewill Norway itself is saying about this: they are going to be competing out and will disappear. It does not seem to concern the representative of the Progress Party. But when we are talking about equal treatment for all, is it that the Progress Party will support EN when we are now going to propose equal pension, pay and working conditions, whether you work in the public sector, in the voluntary sector or in the private sector, for those who are going to provide child protection services?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e613	I will reply to the last one first: this is not the case – it is not. What is added here is not equal to pension obligations or anything. This is about own screened bidding rounds, as today. So that's not what this is about. In the first case, that the children do not want to submit a tender: I have not heard any children who have said so. I have heard children say that they would sometimes wish they were taken out of their homes earlier because of serious physical violence – not where they came and who provided the service, but that they came to a good and safe place. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e620	In the introduction I would like to underline the starting point of the left in this case. It is the need of the children who are in the center, everything else is subordinate to this concern. We all agree that the ideals have an important place in the production of health and care services. The government has clearly stated that they are working with several measures to strengthen the position of non-profit organisations and that they should continue to be important partners for the public – of course. The government has said that it wishes to continue the cooperation agreement. The left has confidence that the government will follow up on this. The left will therefore respond to the recommendation from the majority of the Committee. It is not the other private providers that have posed the greatest threat to the ideals, but a desired policy from the previous red-green government to primarily use their own public institutions. This, together with short-term, almost unsustainable contractual conditions, has led to great uncertainty – that it is not prudent – for non-profit institutions that have failed to fill their places and that have lived with an uncertain economy over several years. Many good non-profit institutions in the health and care sector have been reduced, and the variation in supply has therefore been poorer. It's a development that's important to turn around. For the Left, the wrong policy is to fill public institutional spaces only when the child’s needs and nothing else will govern the choice of action. The left wants to facilitate a lack of provision so that children under public care are given a well-suited, custom-made supply that meets the needs of the specific individual child. Then it doesn't matter as much whether it's public ideals or other private ones that provide the services. There are several small private providers of child protection measures that are driven out of idealism, which are of very high quality and do not take exchange. The revised EU Public Procurement Directive that has been referred to by many will provide guidance for the protection of children. Several major debates have focused on the scope for action that this will give us in the future. This is something that needs to be clarified as quickly as possible. We know that this directive will make separate supply competitions difficult from 2016, and it is within the framework of this that we also need to look at the possibilities we have to secure good, long-term agreements in the field of child protection, so that we can provide a robust framework that provides safe access and a good professional environment for the benefit of every child under public care. Long-term agreements are needed in the field of child protection – where the needs of each child are at the centre. Some young people have to have their whole growth in an institution, and then it must be a goal that the framework conditions are so good that children are not moved without it being absolutely necessary. Competition between different actors must therefore be primarily about content and quality. The cost per day and action is thus a poor parameter for measuring the child’s needs. I am pleased that Councillor Horne has stressed the same many times: that action in the field of child protection is primarily about quality, and that economics must be a factor that is less important. The left-wing mein we must establish a principle of being long-term and of a prudent framework, which allows the child protection providers to build a good professional environment, pursue continuous improvement work and secure long-term economic investment. It'll give the kids the best care. The left is not concerned that entries by private actors will ruin the quality of the supply by not getting the ideals. The ideals today have a high quality and low price – lower than the public and other private ones. The government has also signaled that they are working to find a solution to the high pension costs of ideals because this cost is distorting competition. That view shares and supports us, of course. It is absolutely crucial to get a system on it to take care of and ensure that even the ideals that labor with these costs have the same premise as other actors. With equal conditions of competition, I feel confident that the ideals will still have a central place in the provision of care – within the health and care sector, and that we will have the same lack of what we have to offer, as the care and need of the young require.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e654	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e657	The left was very high on the track before the election, and in its contribution today, Breivik follows up the promise to look at the situation around the pension issues of the non-profit organisations. It was central then – in the campaign – and it is today, in the hall. How satisfied is the Left with how the government has followed up its efforts to solve the challenges of pensions in the non-profit organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e664	The left is not content until the government has given a response that will take care of it. As I just said from the speaker's chair: We trust that the government will work so well that they will give the answer in an affordable time horizon – something that will be entirely decisive, as we know that a lot of these contracts will expire in the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e670	Left votes against proposal 1 – but agrees in reality – because one believes it is unnecessary according to what the Council of State has said. This at least gives the situation that proposal 1 is, in fact, a majority for this issue in the Grand Duchy as regards the substance of the matter. Then it's Suggestion 2: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the system of sheltered tenders for ideal child protection providers at least to the same extent as today’.» So we're talking about at least the same amount as today, we're talking about the part of the total job that's going to be done. The left is talking about a level playing field, and you're feeling safe. The left tradition is the interaction between the public and the ideals. As the representative proposal is formulated by the Central Party, it is precisely to ensure the ideal place, so that the public does not take over. And on the basis of the representative's argument, there's nothing in what's been said that would tell you to be against what's going on here. What is the reason why the Left wants to vote against, when one also agrees on this point in substance?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e684	As I just said quite clearly from the pulpit, the Left now has confidence that the government is doing what they have said, which I take for granted that Minister Solveig Horne emphasizes when she gets the word afterwards. If I don't agree that the government has gradually learned that the road is very short for Stortinget to come to the track in retrospect, unless different things come into place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e689	I have to say, I have to say, I have to say, why different parties here don't think that we should build up the diversity and quality that these children need, in the public sector and the voluntary sector, so that their children don't get their home on the offer. It's SV's goal that we get it done. But when the representative of the Left now says that if the government doesn't deal with this, that it's going wrong, then the Stortinget will get on the track, then I'll ask the representative to notice if he doesn't believe what Freewill Norway is writing today, that ‘The change proposed by the government parties will frustrate the ideal welfare offer in a few years’ time. Then there will be no more diversity, but less." Then it's voluntary offer gone. Is not the representative of the Left now interested in getting legislation in place so that pay, pension and working conditions are equal whether you are in the public, private or voluntary sector in these areas, so that we do not allow the voluntary sector to be scrapped, because they will not come back?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e701	There are two feedbacks, two things that need to be in place to secure what the representative Karin Andersen is also busy. It is that the ideals that currently face higher pension costs have a level playing field, and then one must have completely different contractual terms than the current rule, and as in particular. the red-green government must take responsibility for it. One must have completely different, far-sighted and long-term contracts – for the Left, we like to have long-term contracts that are entered into and checked on the road, and not contracts that have such an impact on the framework agreement that today's agreements have and that give us full feedback that ultimately the young people who are placed in the institutions are affected by lack of long-termity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e706	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e709	I would like to start by saying that children who need help from child protection should not be offered. What has been the main objective of SV when we've been working on this in and out of government is the offer to the children, that it's the best of the children that should apply in any case, and that there's no need for private, commercial actors to be in this market to decide neither rules nor what we're doing. We in SV have had a lot of contact with child protection children. I heard now that there are representatives in this room who have not heard that the child protection child has asked not to be put to tender. It upsets me a lot, because they're asking for it. That's why I agree with the last thing the representative from the left said here, that we now have to get other forms of contract, and it works for SV. But what has been absolutely crucial when we've tried to change this is to keep the volunteer organizations in this work, because they're so incredibly important. They have, as the representative of the Workers' Party was up here and said, helped shape Norway. There are very many who have very good offers. Today, the website of Volunteering Norway reads: ‘The change proposed by government parties will frustrate the ideal welfare offer in a few years’ time. Then there will be no more diversity, but less, because the first priority of commercial players is to produce services they get financial profit from. The innovation that ideals provide in terms of identifying new diagnostics, new methods, and not least through their contribution to public debate and policy development, will be lost when the ideals are pushed out of the market.» Unfortunately, this is what it is going to be like if you don't do what SV is going to suggest: if you're going to use the private sector into welfare services, it has to be on the same terms as the government has when it produces services, that they have public pension conditions, and that you follow pay and contract conditions otherwise – because that's what you can compete with. The voluntary sector has one capital, and it is their knowledge and competence — and the employees. When the regulation on public acquisitions came, the Bondevik government was set, and they decided this without turning a blind eye. SV then promoted a proposal in the Stortinget for which we received a majority, namely that it would be possible to protect the ideal actors against tenders, so that we could cooperate with the non-profit sector without using tenders. It was important that time, and it's important now, because now we have a government that believes that children who need child protection and haircuts are the same. So it's the same person who delivers, whether it's private, public, or who it is. Then we have to have systems that make us at least rock the voluntary sector, because they offer very important offers. It must be through quality requirements, individual adaptation and diversity of offerings in the public and voluntary sectors that we ensure this provision for children. Because it is not possible for those who now believe that these private enterprises are the most important thing in the whole case – because it is very clear that someone believes it – to think that you cannot make good offers for children in e.g. the public sector, because you have to – 50 pst. of today's offers are in the public sector! You can't believe that you can't do this for more people, whether in the public sector or through long-term quality contracts in collaboration with the voluntary sector, which is not in this sector because you have a desire to make money on it. So this is not about the employees in the voluntary offerings. They're doing a huge job -- they're all, most of them. Some of these private ones are there because they have a genuine interest in it. They should be employed in public and be part of the public offer or voluntary offer. But what we have to protect ourselves against is the big international actors who are in the child protection field just to make money. That money's gonna go to babysitting!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e734	The representative, Andersen, began by saying that the best interests of the children should apply in any case. We agree on that. But then it turns into an autopilot, and it becomes ownership and working conditions that come into focus. So, we want full equal treatment, we want transparency about quality, and we think that the best thing for children is the important thing, the quality is the important thing. Who delivers the service is not the decisive thing. So we think it's the best of the children, and not who owns the offer, which is the important thing. One of the two questions I want to ask is: Why is ownership important than getting the best tailored service? We also heard Andersen earlier say that we must be able to require the same working conditions for all employees in the field of child protection. So once again, other people than the kids are the most important, so they're the employees. Question number two will then be: If we were to – for an experiment – also think about the best of the children here: could Andersen also imagine adapting the tour to the needs of the children, which provides security and stability, as some private suppliers do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e743	The student tour has been legal for a long time and 98 pst. all the applications received have been accepted. So it's turning open doors. In terms of ownership: The whole point is that when we grant money for child protection, SV is concerned that that money should go to child protection, and then we have to make sure that that money is not taken out in dividends to shareholders or to large companies. We are concerned about the quality of this, and we believe that we should build this offer with sufficient good, wide variety, very good supply in the public sector and in cooperation with the voluntary sector, which does not have this profit motive. So it might be more natural to ask the question back: why is ownership so important to the Right, why do private businesses necessarily have to make money on child-restraints, which also leads to demands for tenders?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e752	Yes, the private enterprises are there to a large extent, and they are there because the previous government chose to buy the service from them to a greater extent than from the ideals. The ideals also provide services more reasonablely than the private ones do, while under the previous government they wanted to act more in private. So the question back is: why – if there is to be a team in Andersen’s reasoning – did you choose a completely different practice from what she stands for now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e757	When you are going to buy from private operators and not do the service seam, you will be required to submit tenders. And then you have the problem of putting home to children who need security, on the offer. Therefore, SV is concerned that we need to build up this offer in a way that allows us to avoid tenders, so that children can have the security they demand — sometimes throughout their lives. When it comes to the requirement of pay and pension conditions, that's what you can make money on. We believe that employees working with child protection should have good pay and working conditions, good pension conditions, and we believe that it is much more right that money goes to build up their skills and ensure that those who work in this sector have good pay and working conditions, because it is very important that we manage to recruit and keep the best people there. Rather, investors get to make their money in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e765	There have been a number of media reviews in recent months on child protection in Norway. For eight years, SV was in charge of this government and department: why didn't they tell the whole country loud and clear and use all the energy – and not just a meeting – to tell us what the EU procurement directive said for something, that it couldn't go on? And question two: SV wants an order that all providers have the same cost obligations. This will push the price up, because the public themselves say that the private non-commercial and the commercial often are more reasonable, and that means fewer places. Why does SV want to downgrade the number of spaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e772	SV will build up the number of spaces. That is why we prioritise child protection in our budgets rather than tax relief for millionaires and billionaires – as the Progress Party and the Right does. I would also recommend that the representative read the comments on the matter. It has been explained how the previous government informed the Storting about the problems in this area, and several of us also signaled that this is one of the areas where it may be relevant to apply the right of reservation in the EU, precisely in order to protect our well-being and cooperate with the voluntary sector, because it is so important. Yes, SV is willing to pay for good child protection. We are even willing to secure those who work in this important field, good pay and working conditions. I'm recording that it's not the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e784	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e787	It has been interesting to sit and listen to this debate. More people have been concerned that it's about children's best, and how we can help children get a better daily life than they had before. Therefore, good monitoring is so important, and we have a diversity of relief measures, so that we can ensure lasting change in these children. That's why we need both public institutions, and ideal and commercial. They all have their peculiarity, they all have their peculiarity, they have well-qualified employees, and we all need them. For the government, the non-profit sector is an important public sector partner in the production of health and social services for the population. The non-profit organisations have a high level of competence and commitment, and they can contribute to new solutions to the welfare challenges that we have, and the government still wants to cooperate well with this sector. The government is now developing a new cooperation agreement with the ideals. We want to have a new agreement and a close dialogue with the non-profit organisations in this important work as soon as possible. This work is led by the Minister of Industry, but as Minister of Children I want to make sure that this agreement supports the government's goal of freedom of choice for the municipalities and ensures a good offer for the children. I am engaged in good and flexible agreements for non-profit actors – in line with agreements with other private actors. All measures and services used in the protection of children shall be subject to strict quality requirements. We must be sure that the measures chosen contribute to lasting, positive changes for the child, and that also applies to all the different private actors. The Government has previously informed that access to procurement legislation to reserve competitions for the non-profit sector cannot be continued with the new Directives. We want to explore every opportunity to achieve such an exception. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has therefore asked Professor Fredrik Sejersted of the University of Oslo to carry out an assessment of whether the derogation can be continued in the light of the new provisions of the Directive. When that investigation is available, the government will decide whether it is appropriate to ask for the adaptation text of the Directive in the context of its inclusion in the EEA Agreement. As regards the proportion of private spaces, there has been a rather stable situation since 2008–09. That's about. 40 pst. Ideal and approx. 60 pst. commercial. In total, the State Children's Protection buys about 53 pst. by the institutional sites of private actors. The total number of permanent places agreed with the ideal actors in child protection is 182. This represents approximately 40 pst. of the purchases from the private sector. This shows that child protection naturally has limited space requirements, compared to, for example: the health sector. The government platform states that municipalities should be given the right to choose child protection measures freely, after an assessment of quality, price and what gives the best help to the individual child, regardless of who delivers the measure. My main concern in the area of child protection is that an offer is to be made which is best suited to the needs of children and that the measures are of good quality. We need, as I was in the past, a variety of good actions for the individual child. The current situation shows that there are no grounds for saying that there are differences in quality between public and private operators and between commercial and non-profit operators. I have said in the past that I will investigate the consequences of equalising all private actors from whom state child protection buys measures. Pending that investigation and the examination of the impact of the EU Directive, on 29 April I have notified the Directorate that a temporary scheme of protected competition will be put in place for the ideals, which will apply to contracts of 14 months from 1 February 2015. This will allow us time to assess the impact of equality between the actors in child protection and the outcome of the EU Directive. What's best for children and what's important as the quality of supply, predictability and what's the best use of resources, I consider to be very important perspectives in this impact assessment. I have also asked the directorate to consider the possibility of including an entry in these short-term contracts, so that the agreements can be prolonged for another year, until 31 March 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e816	I refer you to the post of the Council of State, where an investigation is being carried out into how to proceed with the derogation in the legislation. I'm a little surprised, because everyone from the Right and the Advance Party who's been up on the pulpit has repeated up to several times that it doesn't matter to the Right and the Advance Party who offers an offer – whether it's ideal or commercial. When there is a review tone in all the articles, I have to ask the Council of State: why are you driving and investigating this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e823	As I was in my post, the government is now working on the cooperation agreement with the non-profits, in close contact with the non-profit organisations. At the same time, we have received an EU directive that gives quite clear leadership, and the government wants to get more information on the impact this will have on the whole of the ideal sector. For the child-restraint side, this is about. 182 places. In the health sector, this concerns large institutions, and for the government, where the Minister of Industry is leading this work, it is important that we look at the consequences and how we can also take care of the ideal actors in view of what could be the consequences of the EU Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e832	The purpose of the cooperation agreement was to allow non-profit-making activities to be prioritised in their own bidding rounds, but in the budgetary positions of the State budget of the year, we can read that the majority says that all good child protection capacity should be used without prejudging that ideals should be prioritised. All good capacity must mean that no available capacity is available in any child protection institution. Can the Council of State assure that she has followed the leaders of the Great Government, and that any vacant posts are only those that are not defined as good?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e839	As I said in my post, the use of ideal and commercial offers in the child protection sector has been stable since 2008-2009. The Directorate has been informed in my letter of assignment that all the available capacity we have in the public sector is to be used first, and that the ideals are to be used before the commercial ones. The result of this is that we buy approx. 50 pst. of all our offers at private. So what's happening in 2014 is the status quo, compared to the previous government, but I'm still following up the government platform, which stands firm, and I've asked the directorate to investigate what the consequences will be if you equalise ideal, commercial and public institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e846	As a temporary solution, a cooperation agreement is now to be concluded with a 14-month duration for the non-profit sector. What kind of predictability underpins when negotiating a contract of such short duration? I also think that many people in the non-profit sector are questioning. The second question is: why does the Council of State not take advantage of the possibility of negotiating longer-term agreements, as has been done in the drugs sector? The EU Directive will be implemented on 1 February. It has no retroactive effect. This means that we can now use the opportunity to create longer-term agreements, which create predictability, and which also allow the non-profit sector to have time to adapt to the new directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e853	I think that the representative Becquerad may have misunderstood a little, because the work on the cooperation agreement, for which the Minister of Industry is responsible, and for which the government is going to draw up in close contact with the non-profit organisations, is in progress. Pending that agreement being in place, and pending our follow-up to what is on the government platform to look at the ideal, commercial and state institutional offer, while we have the EU directive, I have today not prolonged, but launched a tender in the protected competition for the ideals, for a period of time until the entry into force of the EU directive. It also means that there is an agreement with the commercial at the same time, and then they are assimilated, and then we can start looking at how we can manage to maintain a good institutional offer – state, commercial and ideal – for the children who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e861	Governments refer to the EU Directive as a basis for publishing new screens with a contract duration of only 14 months. We know that in the health field, Health Vest has announced a collective bidding competition with contracts with a duration of six years, in addition to a two-year option option. The EU Directive applies to purchases on both health and child protection. It is the same government, but two different state councils: how can two different departments in the same government always interpret the EU directive so differently, and why is one out to take the ideals in the child protection field?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e868	I'm not really looking to take the ideal actors. We need the ideal actors. They give us a very important offer in the child protection sector. However, as I said in my post, pending the investigation that I have launched on the equality of private actors in the state purchase of child protection measures, and pending the examination of the impact of the EU Directive, I have been informed that a temporary system of sheltered competition is being introduced for the non-profits, which will last for 14 months, until 1 February 2015. In addition, an opening is granted to prolong those agreements for a further year until 31 March 2017. Finally, I want to say, since this had been so very important for the Center Party, that they have been in government for eight years. Since 2008, there has been a stable use of both ideals, commercial and state-owned, and if you were concerned about long-term sustainability, you should have made some new agreements many years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e877	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Minister for Child Protection says that all child protection measures should of course be of high quality and that the quality of the measures should not depend on the procurement procedure. But it's a little difficult to get what it's children's, equality and inclusion ministers really think about the matter. Does she mean that she wants equality, that she wants to cancel the distinction between ideal non-profits and profit-based health and care services? Now she says that she is continuing the regime that the red-green government has had. I am pleased, but the tenders are short without any particular justification why they should be shorter for the child protection sector than for the hospital sector. But has the minister got into what the voluntary sector says about lifting this distinction, that is, what the minister calls equality? To this end, the voluntary sector says that they will not be able to continue with such a regime as the government is now proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e884	Just as the last time the representative is here, it's going to be a natural part of the investigation that's going to be done in that field, and then, of course, we'll listen to all the actors and what they say about it. I have to say that it seems that the representative Andersen asks questions about what I think is best for the children. Children in need of assistance shall be of good quality. We're the ones who define the quality we're going to have when we write the tender documents. It is my concern – and this has also been said by Stortinget – that municipalities have a primary responsibility for providing vulnerable children and young people with good child protection measures, and the role of the state should be to a far greater extent to provide the services and measures requested by the municipalities. When the municipalities – who know that family, know this child – ask for the special offer, I will be able to give it to them, regardless of whether it is offered by a private, public or commercial operator. The most important thing is that those children get help to get a better everyday life than they had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e889	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e892	Child protection is giving greater freedom to weak groups of young people. These are positive freedoms in the spirit of the Constitution. It's based on quality, and it's based on long-term, so that you get a greater degree of freedom. There are three organisational models. It is public, which today is far too top-notch and bureaucratic, and which is one of the reasons why we have this debate, because the public does not work well enough. It's the ideal private, with plenty of quality, the idealism of employees and owners, and it's the private commercial ones who are competent, but who are seaworthy, the purpose is for them to also make money in their business, and where we have a development from small family-owned institutions to the international big group. The representative of the representatives of the central party representatives Toppe and others. to continue the cooperation agreement between the State and the non-profit sector now has a majority in the Chamber. Then there is the question of continuing the system of sheltered offers for ideal child protection providers at least to the same extent as today. It's a position that has broad popular support, but where today there's a question of how the Left Party is asking whether to have a majority here in the Chamber. From the centre party, it is said that we are going to have a long-term for the private commercials. I want to underline it, so there's no doubt about it. It is implicit in the proposal as regards the private ideals. The question now is what to do with the acquisition directives, such as: contains a directive on public acquisitions, which also applies to the EEA Agreement, and which has a deadline for implementation in the countries of April 2016. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family agreed with NPISHs in 2008 on the purchase of institutional premises and runs until 1 February 2015. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion has stated in its letter of 29 April 2014 to the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs that current practice is to be continued pending the necessary investigation and that open competition reserved for non-profit institutions serving households is to be announced with effect from 1 February 2015 until 31 March 2016. The question is why the Department cannot now enter into new long-term agreements for the non-profit sector beyond 31 March 2016. Here, the Council of State has to clarify what's the reason for that. And further, isn't it that the Norwegian Storing has the freedom of action to give authority to the government in such agreements? The EU cannot break into existing agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e905	Sometimes I become a little bit Ole Brumm in my head and want both of me. This is such a debate, because we need all the different providers we can get to meet the needs of the individual children. Then a discussion about whether someone should be chosen a little bit more than others a little bit strange, I think. Finding the best help for precisely the infant born with abstinence, or for the young person who is setting the first injection, or the best follow-up of the young girl who has been abused, cannot depend on who is driving the measure, but must be guided by who gives the best help, regardless of who provides the service. It is important to discuss whether all providers of child-protection measures have a good framework in which to maintain a level playing field in competition, but when we so sorely need all providers, this must be the starting point, not if anyone should be selected. We know that we need all the good measures to meet the needs of the children who need help. We know that if something is state-driven, non-profit-making or private-driven, it's about two things: high quality and adaptation to the individual child.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e912	I have to say that I have a little trouble figuring out which of the right-hand politicians I am going to listen to in this debate, because there are a lot of different messages that are being tried to present when, on the one hand, you hear the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party saying that you don't think it matters whether it's ideal or commercial players that offer an offer – it's been repeated by all, several times – and on the other hand, the Council of State, which implies that you have to have a process to figure out what the space of action is to protect the non-profit sector. Either this is a sign that you're in disagreement with each other in the game, or there's double communication of the worst kind. Svein Harberg confirms in everything he says from this pulpit that the Right's policy is to equate ideal and commercial, completely independent of the directive. When the Stordalen was directly challenged in the line change on whether to change the course if the ideals were actually skewed out, he repeated that it doesn't matter to him whether it's commercial or ideal. So on the other hand, state councillor Horne is investigating what the space for action is. Like Lundteigen, I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: Why have you chosen, when it is said that you must have protected rounds of tenders, that this will only last until the new directive enters into force? I'm going to think that you could, if you wanted, have long-term contracts, maybe over a period of ten years. But obviously you won't. The question then arises: is the directive really a dear opportunity for the right parties to implement the policies they have always pursued, namely to equate ideal and commercial actors and thus to force a large-scale privatisation of the welfare sector? I think that is what is the real mission of the big politicians from the Right and the Progress Party, but that one hides behind the fact that it is a directive that pushes forward this solution. If they really meant what Solvency Horne is talking about, long-term agreements could be concluded in large measure until the new directive comes into force. On the contrary, I believe that what is more correct, that which comes from Svein Harberg and the deposit representatives of the two respective parties, is that we really want, in the heart of it, to erase the differences between ideals and commercials.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e921	I just want to follow up on what was my point in the line to the Council of State: why not use the space of action that is there? As I said, the new EU directive does not have retroactive effect. Why don't you do the same thing you did in health and care, when you negotiated contracts for six years? Why not use this opportunity for this sector too, I find it very difficult to understand. We're talking about an investigation and a new agreement of 14 months. But you don't know anything, because there are no signs of what happens after the 14 months. We're waiting for an investigation, but we don't know anything about what's coming out of that investigation. I don't understand why you don't use the space you have. As I said, the new EU directive does not have retroactive effect. This has been understood in the health sector. I don't understand why you can't take advantage of that space of action in the area of child protection. This is not what the representative Tønder says, that you have to choose someone a little more than the others. One of the main points, and many have been raised in this debate, is that there is no fair competition between the non-profit sector and the public and commercial sectors. It points to pension costs. Therefore, we need to protect bidding rounds for the non-profit sector, in order to be able to participate in real competition at all. But my main point in this post is, why don't you use the space you have for action? I'm worried about what kind of signals we're now giving if also point number. 2 in the setting would be downgraded. I hope that the Storting knows its visitation time, so that we do not take action now that can lead to large parts of the non-profit sector having to look at themselves to wind up. I hope the Council of State can give a somewhat more complete answer than what I got in the reply card exchange, because it was not said anything about what happens after 14 months. We're just waiting for an investigation that we don't know the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e932	What has emerged in this matter is that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Government Party are announcing a new course in child protection. The Council of State's letter to the Committee reveals that there is no political will to protect the ideals of future bidding rounds. It's serious, because we see a child-rescue landscape in a big change. We see that several small non-profits were put down and bought up by large commercial listed child protection groups. Aleris Ungplan, Norway's largest provider of private childcare services, sold services for 2.7 billion. kr to the country in 2012 and the company paid well 190 million. kr in dividends to Aleris Norway, owned by the Swedish Aleris Group. This is a development and a serious situation that needs political action. But the Council of State is most concerned about the so-called equality of commercial and non-profit providers within the field of child protection. That means that the ideals can no longer be sure of having their own cooperation agreement with the state. This has to be appreciated. This means that the ideals are no longer to have a display of competition because one should have an equivalent competitive situation. This does not take into account the historical pension challenges they currently have. They mean that the ideals now in the child protection field will get contracts that will be one year and four months. So I don't understand how this is to guarantee the ideal quality of life, to ensure the quality of life and to be at the best of the children. So it was shown that one in the health field is entering into contracts of four years, with a two-year extension. I would like to ask the Council of State again: why can't it, just as Councillor Höie does in the health field, use the space for action? What is the reason why in the field of child protection a person will not use the space for action that is in existence and concludes contracts, so that a person gets more long-term contracts, not one year's contracts? I actually thought the Council of State should answer the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e943	There is a very different use of words today from the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party and from the Council of State. The representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party believe that the new regime that comes with the directive now is good. It also says Minister of Industry Monica Mæland, who is to lead the investigation to which the Minister of Children refers. Her reaction has been that this directive is a step in the right direction, i.e. that there should be a level playing field between the commercial and voluntary sectors in terms of cooperation with, for example: the protection of children. It's serious. I think I'm once again going to have to quote what's on the Freewill website of Norway today. You might have to trust that they know how this will work for them. They say that when ‘government parties go in to cancel the distinction between ideal non-profit-based and profit-based health and care services’, it rhymes poorly ‘with the assurances we have received that the cooperation agreement with the non-profit sector will continue’, because it is ‘based on the understanding that non-profit-based and profit-based actors need to be distinguished in procurement policy, if non-profit-based ones remain part of the welfare offer in the future’. If we mean it – and that means SV very strongly – we have to make a distinction in this respect. We need to make sure that they get conditions that enable them to continue to be the good partner they are, and play the important role they do. I think I'm going to repeat: the capital of the voluntary sector is the employees and the competences they have. If they lose a tender, they are ‘out of business’, while the large commercial players – as the representative of the Central Party was up and explained instead – have a capital base lying there. They can buy and sell, they can lie down for a year, they show up again, but the volunteers we have knocked out in tenders. It does not want SV, and I also hope that the Minister can now at least clarify for us: if the investigation of this space of action – this investigation to be conducted by a minister who does not want this space of action but who, on the contrary, wishes to welcome the directive – would it be possible to continue with two regimes, will the Council of State use that space of action in the future? Does she agree with Freedom Norway that discrimination is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e953	During the change of line, SV’s representative Karin Andersen stated that she would refer to the comments in the case – SV’s comments. I want to remind SV's Karin Andersen that SV actually prioritized not to sit in that committee – I can't find any comments from SV in that committee. SV has chosen it away, because it wasn't important enough to sit in such a committee. I can't read notes from SV, but I read them from the other parties. The representative of Grande stated from this chair in his last post that the undersigned and the Progress Party almost do not care and do not care about the ideals. No, I didn't say that. I said in my post that I was concerned with diversity in the service – the diversity for the sake of the children it was about. One should have a good and varied offer. That's what's most important, not who delivers it. Then, with all due respect, I would remind the House that the comments are from those in the committee, from the majority. The ideals, which are now so afraid and believed to be wiped out, were, according to official figures from the SSB, NOK 1 100 cheaper per day of stay than the private commercial ones. That's how I believe in the ideals. I have faith in all those who burn to provide services – I have faith in the private commercial ones, I also have faith in the public. Only with diversity do we get good services – a qualitatively good, varied service provision. Because that's how the children who need the service are not the same. They all come from different backgrounds, from different events, from different episodes. Ergo needs the varied, good offers all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e964	Let me underline if there is any doubt: the ideal organisations and Freedom Norway are important support players for this government. We are totally dependent on the voluntary and non-profit organisations around the country, and they are engaged in tasks that the state has not intended to take over. So I want to answer some questions. The representative of Grande is so worried about this. Well, what has the previous government done in recent years, from 2012, when the contested tender came? Well, there was a tendering procedure, where the agreements were valid for two years, with the possibility of prolonging for two years. That prolongation is now going out. If this was so important to get long-term and long-term agreements up to 10 years, then the previous government had the opportunity to do so, but they did not – and they also knew about the EU directive. What is important to me now is that it is clear in the government platform, and the representative Toppe cannot have followed in the political debate unless she has had the support of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party in this committee for the past four years, that a desire to equalise private and public services in the area of child protection has been clearly stated. Pending the investigation into equalising private actors from which state child protection currently buys measures, and the EU Directive, I will repeat that I have informed the Directorate that a temporary system of protected competition is to be established for the non-profits, which will apply to contracts of 14 months from 1 February 2015. It will provide us with the time needed to assess the impact of equality between the actors in child protection and the outcome of the EU Directive. What is best for children, and the elements of quality in supply, predictability and what is the best use of resources, I consider to be important perspectives in the impact assessment. Then I also asked the directorate to consider the possibility of adding an entry to the short-term contracts. It is an opening to prolongate the agreement another year, until 31 March 2017. It will increase predictability both for the suppliers and for the paediatric population receiving measures and services, and the possibility of extending the contract period without a new outsourcing would be both rational and reduce red tape. These are the measures I have taken now, pending the investigation of the impact of the investigation I am going to launch, plus the EU Directive. The cooperation agreement with the ideals will be an important work in the future – handled by the Minister of Industry – and which we do in good dialogue with the ideal actors. Finally, I just want to read an opinion from the NHO Service to which the Committee refers in the comments. It seems that time is running out now, so then I don't have time to read it up, but on page two of the vote, the majority of the committee, or all the members, should take note of their own comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e979	The background to this heated debate is the EEA Agreement – an EEA Agreement adopted pursuant to former Article 93 of the Basic Law, because it was to apply to a restricted area. Which of the EEA's trailers would believe at the time that child protection would also be covered by the EEA Agreement? Now, one in the situation is that, on the part of the Council of State, it is said that NPISHs are important. There are a number of objections, but the reality is that the Council of State does not want to announce agreements for ideals beyond 31 March 2016. But it's really uninteresting what representatives of the Right and the Advance Party here say. What's central is what the representatives from the Left should say. But those representatives have left the Chamber. They have left the hall, they are not present. The old Left that has a tradition for the ideals along with the public – the left people should notice what is happening. Furthermore, there is talk of a level playing field. The previous government, in its draft government budget for 2014, said that it wanted to set up a working group to assess the pension challenges of NPISHs providing healthcare in the health and social field and to involve organisations. Obviously, organisations had to be involved, in order for a through it to get an overview of what was cost. So the government responds with internal working groups without the organisations. How can one then get an overview of how much this costs? Is there any real will to do anything about it? Where is the credibility when you can prove what's actually happening? I would like to say this at the end: I would ask the Council of State to come up again to the pulpit and tell what is the reason why the Stortinget can't now give notice that NPISHs in the area of child protection can get agreements beyond March 31, 2016, when one does so in other areas. And why are the organisations not involved in pension obligations? It's a matter of respect for the Great Council's pulpit, and I'm asking the Council of State to tell you what's the reason for these two crucial points.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e990	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e993	If this proposal is not going to have a plurality today, it is quite serious for many who run ideal child protection around the country. The representative Lundtigen pointed out that the left has a decisive role and that they are not present in the hall. The representative Breivik, who had the floor before today, argued for the Left's view that they would not support the proposal, but support the setting, i.e. the Right Cooperation Party and the Advance Party. Hordaland is a state where there are many ideal child protection institutions, including Styve Gard at Voss, Garne Youth Centre in Bergen and Voss Family and Children's Centre. All of these have been very clear that if they don't get a screen competition on, they're in an extremely difficult situation. This means a lot around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1004	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1007	The councils were just up here and said that she is totally dependent on the voluntary sector. When Freedom Norway on its websites today writes: ‘The change proposed by government parties will frustrate the ideal welfare offer in a few years’ time.’ – I can repeat: ‘rerace the ideal welfare offer in a few years’ – I have to ask, does this not make any impression on the Council of State? Doesn't it make any impression on the Progress Party and the Right? These organisations have been involved in building up many of the welfare services in the voluntary sector, with which the public sector has cooperated for many years, and which everyone says is necessary to have there, while the policy that the government parties now want to push down on us is a major risk project for some of the main cooperation actors we have. I also want to demand the left. Where are they?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1023	Some comments are in their place. First, Grande was in doubt about who to listen to. I would then recommend listening to what I'm saying now, and we'll see if it can be elucidating, especially as to why someone is investigating a new code. First of all, it's a matter of course that when there's new legislation, someone is investigating what's the space for action to see how we're going to move on. The important thing now is that one ensures three actors continue child protection activities. Both the public, the ideals and the other, the private, must still be there. As of today, we have a challenge with pension costs. We need to find out whether it is in an action room around this legislation that it can be taken care of, or in what other way we are going to intervene. I perceive that there is an agreement in the hall to grab hold of it. So it's true that when the child is there, you need an offer, and you have to choose between the offers that are, it's uninteresting who owns the offer, and who pays the salary. It is the quality of the offer that is important. We're standing right back and saying that. I would like the Labour Party to do that too, but Grande was from the pulpit here quite clearly that first it is the state, then the ideals and then the others – so not the best of the children. Karin Andersen indicated that there was a different use of words. Yes, it is. Among those who have been in government together, Karin Andersen and SV do not want a tender at all. I wonder a little about the reality of this, but she is quite clear on this: she does not want a tender at all. Kjersti Toppe was honest about the fact that if a person only manages the differences with the pension costs, he has full confidence that the ideals are also doing well in a tender, while the Labour Party – as I just mentioned – believes that there should be tender, but protection. It's very different word usage and very different goals. Then I just want to make a statement – and now I think it is important that someone in the hall listens very well: Nobody in the Right Party or in the Advance Party has said that we want the public or the ideals to go away, on the contrary. I'll say it again: we want the public places. We want the ideal places. We want the others, the private ones. And we want them to be given the same quality and safety conditions. Then we get a diversity. In the end, it is strange to hear how all ideals are described as having the same challenges — that is not the case, it is widespread in the pension challenges — and that all individuals are big pitfalls. I invite the committee to visit my municipality of residence, Grimstad. There are many private, small institutions that run idealistic and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1040	The representative of Arild Grande has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1043	If that was true, what Svein Harberg just said, you could simply vote for the motions No. 1 and 2. One could then simply continue the cooperation agreement established by the red-green government with the non-profit sector, and one could easily choose to join the system of protected offers for the non-profit sector, as the system has been until today. Horne had a small visit to the historical agreement concluded in 2012. If Horne knew the content of the directive already in 2012, I have to say that I am deeply impressed – deeply impressed – with the insight that the Council of State expresses, because there were few others who knew what this directive, which was adopted in February, would contain. So, like more people, I'm going to ask the Left to think about it. I also believe that the Christian People's Party has an explanation problem with the non-profit sector when we see what the volunteer himself says about what this will mean for the very intentions of the cooperation agreement, that it is not compatible with the Progress Party and the Right says in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1052	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1056	Any debate here is important – it is important to develop the different views. When we as representatives ask questions, state councils are expected to respond. Point 1: I asked why the Health Council manages the Directive in one way and the State Council Horne manages it in another way. I am asking for an answer to that question. Point 2: On the part of the Right and Advance Party, there is talk of a level playing field. One agrees that the pension obligations are one of the main reasons why they are not the same. The former government said it would put down a sample where the parties would be included. Why isn't the sample put down? The Council of States must answer that question. Finally, it is the Left who decides this matter. The left has nine representatives – no one is present. It's the social liberal party. Now they must show faces.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1067	The representative of Grande also had a little visit to the Christian People's Party. He thought we had a «explanatory problem». I have tried to express why we choose to vote as we do in this case. We have received insurance – both from the Prime Minister of the country and from the Council of State Horne. The same insurance has also been given to Ske. In its opinion on the consultation, Mr Reke stated that they had been confirmed at the meeting of the Government's Contact Committee on 19 February that the government would follow up the cooperation agreement and that it was the Minister of Industry who was responsible for this. There is something about having little confidence that the government will follow up what they say to the organisations out there, but also what they say in this room, and what they say in the form of letters to the questions we have. I trust that the cooperation agreement will continue, but I am disappointed that the space for action you have is not being used to ensure the non-profit sector a long-term agreement. You choose to push this in front of you because you have to figure something out. It disappoints me. That is why we are voting in favour of proposal No. 2 today. I don't think there's any doubt about what the Christian People's Party believes in this case. This is something we've fought for, even in the last period. I would like to remind the representative of Grande, because it was a time when the red-greens were not able to see the difference between private and ideals either. There was a shift, and yes, there was a new agreement in 2012, but there was a rather steep and long learning curve before the red-green parts came where they are today. The Christian People's Party has had the same message all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1078	Then I shall end by saying that it is true just as the representative Bekkevold says. Had it not been for the Christian People's Party in the previous period, it would not have been a sheltered tender. The Christian People's Party has been very credible in this matter, for they have fought for the volunteers. Let me just make it clear, and also assure the representative, Mr Bekkewold, that we are developing the new cooperation agreement with the ideals. We want to put that agreement in place as soon as possible, so we are in good and close dialogue with those organisations about the important work. When I read the website of Freedom Norway, I have to say that I am a little stunned, because there has never been any discussion about whether we are going to have the cooperation agreement. It is clear that we want to continue it, and the Minister of Industry will be responsible for it. I wish that the same commitment as for non-governmental organisations was also in the field of health. If you remember the previous election campaign, there were several ideal players in the field of drugs – those who are going to help drug users – who were at risk of going down. The bourgeois parties then clearly said that the ideal actors must also be used in that field. That is what the Minister of Health has been doing now, because in that area we also need both non-profit and public actors. That the Minister of Health has concluded a longer agreement, yes, they ask the Minister of Health about it. For me, it has been important that we now, pending an investigation into equality between all the actors involved in child protection, have a shorter tendering procedure, with opportunities to extend it until 2017. It will also be relevant when we see that we have that EU directive and do not fully know the consequences of what it will mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1089	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1103	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1112	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work on this matter. We have not succeeded in reaching an agreement on the setting, as this is a matter of strong ideological dividing lines. The Labour Party in the Committee therefore opposes legislative change, while the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party stand behind it. In addition, I would like to use my post to argue on behalf of the majority. Being at home with their children in the early days is a fantastic experience – a time to get to know, a time to eat, a time to let time be available and let the day be governed by diapers, food, sleeping, food and perhaps a little sleep. The fact that we are going to have such a scheme is the political consensus, and the Norwegian parental leave scheme ensures that mothers and fathers can combine childcare and professional activity. In this case, it is proposed to increase the majority of the leave without reducing the overall period of benefit. This proposal allows both mother and father to take up a greater part of the parental leave period. This is a follow-up to the Cooperation Party Agreement. The Parties agree that increased freedom of choice and flexibility should be granted to families by increasing this common interest. A trust-based exemption scheme shall then be provided in accordance with objective criteria for those fathers who are not allowed to withdraw the 10 weeks for different reasons. This will be promoted in a later case. The right is concerned with facilitating the time for fathers to spend with their children in early childhood, but at the same time considers that the leave system must be flexible so that each family can choose the most appropriate solution for themselves and their child. We believe that a separate family quota is not the best way to get fathers to spend more time with their children. Making A4 solutions for families, which come in all formats, creates challenges that do not outweigh the impact of the scheme. A child who has a mother or father who is self-employed and who cannot take leave will lose valuable time with his parents in his first year of life with these rigid schemes. In an eagerness to create a gender-based society made the previous government arrangements that don't fit into the reality of all families. Greater flexibility could contribute to a longer period of time at home with one of the parents. I believe it is valuable that the parental and care roles are now shared more equally between moms and dads, and it is good to want mother and dad to share more of their leave time. But we have to trust that families know what's best for them. We must have confidence that people in this country will be able to reach agreement on the kitchen table on how to control their family. A political desire for greater sharing should rather be sought through targeted policy-making rather than through state-level detailed governance. This matter arouses debate, as all matters of freedom of choice do. It's a little surprising enough that more of those who don't want freedom of choice in this matter are otherwise concerned with people's free choice and to facilitate a society that gives us the opportunity to make the free choices. It is argued from the fact that businesses will make it more difficult for fathers to take out more leave, that it is discriminatory that families do not make the most gender-like choices. From this I still read that we agree on one thing: that parents, i.e. mothers and fathers, are able to take leave with their children is a right that needs to be protected, and that we all, politicians, employers, employees and parents, must stand together to protect this right. We disagree on the means of action and how far into the family life these people are going to go in order to achieve this, but we're all together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1131	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1134	There are many who have clearly warned against cutting the spring quota. One of these is NHO's Kristin Forest Lund. The NHO president argues that business loses competence, leadership and professional expertise, that women lose in wage and career development, and that a third of maternity leave is important in meeting labour challenges in the light of the ageing wave. We often hear that the Right and Government parties listen to the NHO. We heard that, among other things: referenced in the previous case. What is the NHO that has not understood in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1139	I think it is important to listen to both employee and employer organisations and others making recordings. But it's not that you always agree, and in this particular area right here, we don't agree with NHO. This is an ideological issue that goes on how far into family life we're really going to go in order to promote gender equality. We believe that the limit goes now, and we believe that it is more important that children get more together time with their parents than that one of the parents should especially be home with the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1144	One of the most important and visible disadvantages of the parental leave we have had in Norway today is that there is a distinction between women and men when women have taken parental leave and have been away from work for a long time. What is the Right answer to those women?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1149	I think it's right to look at these challenges, I just disagree with this particular tool. So I think we have to, together with the NHO and the LO, look at how we work so that everyone can achieve their goals in the workplace. But I believe that in many cases this tool affects the child. We believe that this is not a proper tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1154	Finally, the representative said the word ‘child’. This matter concerns the right of children to get to know, to be as sure, both of their parents as caregivers. I expect that the representative barrels are familiar with the fact that there is a rather sharp discussion around child distribution, and that there may be major biases. This is one of the main reasons why SV has fought for the father's quota and wanted it to be so large that it is the children's right to their father this is about, and not, as the representative says, the parents' freedom of choice. No, it's the children's rights to both of the parents we want to protect here. And if it is that the representative barrels think that you need longer time, it would have been logical to propose the extension of these leave arrangements and not the abbreviation for father. Why does the representative not think it is important that children should have the same right to be with father as with mother?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1161	First I have to be allowed to say that I think it is very important that parents take time with their children. So I have confidence that parents will be able to sit down at the kitchen table and agree on how to distribute this leave. There we are ideologically disagreeable, and I think that's okay. But I'm not willing to go any further with the political tool to achieve a division here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1168	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1172	The week before International Women's Day March 8th, the government presented its first equality-related case to the Stortinget. Those who had claimed that the equality-in-reverse concept was so-called scare propaganda became silent. Those who had been led to believe that the Right’s ‘New Ideas, Better Solutions’ was about progress were clearly illustrated that it could be a matter of retreat. At the leadership position the day before the women's day, the evening post stated that the government is taking steps back for equality, and that cutting in the paperwork is an example of just that. The main business organisation has warned. According to Kristin Forest Lund, the business community loses that women take longer leave than men. The third division is important both for gender equality, female participation and for preserving the capacity of society to finance well-being. LO says the same thing. Gerd Kristiansen refers to Denmark, where we see that the cut in the father's quota means that mother takes more leave, and that means less women's pay. NITO refers to the need to change the culture of activity in order to increase the percentage of permissive fathers. NITO is in order to have a three-part leave, and argues that a change will be unfortunate from both an equality and family perspective. The trade union indicates that the removal of leave by fathers has led to the earmarked length since it was introduced and that better distribution of care increases equality. The association believes that there are both gender and family policy reasons to maintain a good distribution. In a row, the Equality Ombudsman, the Equal Opportunities Commission and others with commitment and knowledge have warned. Even the Council of State does the same when she writes in her letter of 7 April: ‘Federal withdrawals of parental leave have been gradually increased over the past 10 years. We also see in general that fathers want to be involved in their children's lives, both during life together and after a possible breakup. Such development is very positive, both for children and for fathers...». We have to ask: if a development is positive, yes even ‘very positive’, why then deliberately turn it around? To quote the latter leader of the Evening Post: ‘It was just the full freedom to make your own choices, which kept the women out of the boardrooms and fathers at work while the mothers took the entire parental leave.’ The sample calculation could have been considerably longer. For this is what the Head of the Joint Alliance has said: ‘If women and men are to be equally valued, then one must show the will of a policy that actually governs against it.’ The right part and the forward part now say in the setting that they ‘considers that a separate parental quota is not the best way to facilitate fathers’ spending time with their children’. Then the question is, what is the answer? Councillor Horne has said that she believes that the Progress Party, with its policy, has shown crediblely that they are taking women's challenge seriously. She's going to increase the bet on what she calls positive, stimulating instruments – whatever that means. Perhaps we'll hear about it in the Council's speeches today, and not just talk about freedom of choice, but about what kind of instruments are involved. Last summer, the Røres manager, Erna Solberg, expressed in an interview that the entire leave should be shared freely, except for the nine weeks in total before and after the birth of the reserved mother. She thought we had come to what she called social change, and that men now dare to make demands for their employer. But a government that is constantly promoting knowledge as its main concern should be engaged in using heavy and relevant knowledge in its political work. The alternative would be for the government to be remembered as a government that put Norwegian equality policy in reverse and that led equality policy away from the public and back to the kitchen table in each individual home. The first country of Norway is neither self-inflicted nor will it continue to be if we continue in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1224	In this case, the government increases the common portion of the leave, and subsequently a trust-based exemption scheme will be submitted in order to make it easier for families who are not allowed to take out the weeks that are not part of the community. We know that some children lose leave time with their parents because one of the parents, for example. is starting a new company or has other legitimate reasons. Will the Workers' Party continue this injustice, and will it also oppose such a rule of exception?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1229	It may be necessary to make some changes to the maternity leave scheme as it is now, but that does not mean that one should scrape what is good with the scheme. And what's good about the arrangement is that fathers have had more opportunity to take responsibility for their kids. They have a greater chance of being away from work, and that has given them a legitimate reason to take longer leave. There is no need to scrap the whole system in order to make some adjustments for those who may be in a problematic situation. In addition, I believe that there are very few in relation to all the fathers who are now going to have to negotiate with their employer and be confronted with expectations that they are going to be at work while the mothers are going to be at home. This is a matter that goes in the wrong direction, and therefore it is very regrettable that we are now going to vote on this proposal in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1236	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1239	As far as leave arrangements are concerned, we have good arrangements in this country. There is no doubt about it despite the fact that we hear that the NHO, the LO, the Trade Union and all the associations believe this is going in the wrong direction. The Right Party government is busy listening to people, listening to all the recordings we've received in the last year, listening to all the issues that actually exist. It may sound as if all families are A4 families with A4 jobs with an A4 job and an A4 request. This government has seen that the world has actually moved on. There's no one living an A4 life. Who's that? Someone might do it inside a box. This government does not condemn it and believes that everyone should live exactly the same way – live a state-run, family-organized life. It is important to remember that there are an incredible number of different jobs in this country. Here a few weeks ago we discussed Sunday open shops etc., and we could see that approx. 30 pst. by employees actually work evenings and weekends. It's not that it's appropriate for everyone to take leave under a government-organized scheme for fathers. This proposal increases the optional part by eight weeks. Yes, we have faith, we have faith in the individual, we have faith that the family can organize their lives best – not that the state should organize for them. It is important to make arrangements, and I also believe in a world where employers and employees find the best solution when they have agreed between them and at home, on how they want to withdraw their leave. The leave does not go away when you increase the optional part by eight weeks. I hear that the Labour Party and former government parties believe that they know best, that the state knows best how Mrs Hansen and Mr Hansen should best plan their leave. So this government has confidence and faith in the family. According to some recordings that have come from trade unions, we can read that this is a step backwards for equality. I don't think so. I don't think so! Equality, what is it? It's probably about more than just gender equality. In fact, it is also about equality between workers — that they have the opportunity. It's not all home it fits in, it's not everyone who wants Dad to be home like that or something, or mother should be home like that or something. For some, solutions are completely different from the prescribed state-wide number of weeks for each individual. I also believe that Norway is a modern society, and that fathers today want to be at home with their children if they have the opportunity. They want it, and then they can take that part out. No one's forbidding them. Obviously, if you go back a couple of generations, it was completely different. But the world has moved on. If I could choose today, I would choose to be home. Then I could take it with my employer. I don't believe that you should dictate what's best for the individual. This government has confidence in the individuals themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1259	The programme of the Progress Party for the current period is as follows: ‘The relationship between sexes, groupings and individuals should therefore be adapted in working life, leisure and private life naturally without the involvement of public bodies.’ In the light of that wording, this must be a great day for the Progress Party. Finally, less fathers — with the law in hand — can demand more of the parental leave. Gender equality in Norway has just become a consequence of what the Progress Party calls unnatural interference from public bodies. The question is therefore: What can be expected of new initiatives in the future to ensure that equality continues in reverse?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1271	I don't call it equality in reverses. I do not believe that the Labour Party or the Arild Grande should define what is right or wrong in the individual home. I trust and believe that individuals can make their own choices. Yes, the Progress Party is for freedom of choice. The party of progress is for families to decide for themselves. The party of progress is that people themselves take more responsibility for their own lives and can choose for themselves, not that the Workers' Party chooses for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1276	I have that confidence, too, and most people solve this very well on their own and believe that the system we have today is flexible and well arranged for both parents. You ask the child, I think maybe the choice is obvious. The child will spend as much time as possible with both parents, not just with mother. Then we can ask many fathers who today face prejudices, either because their mother stands in the way and wants the parental leave itself, or because their employer says, "I'd rather have you at work." I don't think you should be home, because we need you to work now. What message does Morten Stordalen have to these men, who today actually need the law to secure that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1286	Like I said, I trust the individual. I trust company owners, companies, employers and employees. I also have confidence in the individual family itself. We hear here in the question that the Labour Party representative Arild Grande believes that he himself knows best what is best for the individual family. In contrast, the government has faith in the individual, it has faith in the families, and it wants to increase freedom of choice. So simple, so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1293	I have understood that the Progress Party probably believes that equality comes of itself. SV is very much for equality, but we're also very much for children's rights. But when I hear the representative from the Progress Party talking now, it doesn't seem like it's important at all. Because it's the fathers' wish that's kind of the scale of what to do. For SV, it has been contrary to ensuring that the child is given the right to his or her father in line with his or her mother. I have registered a certain commitment to equal parenthood in child distribution matters, from the Progress Party. Does the Progress Party not see that an equal parenthood, through an expanded paper, can help children to have equal opportunities to be with their father, even after a divorce, which they do not have today with the policy of the Progress Party, which focuses on the old gender roles?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1300	SV's representative Karin Andersen is engaged in the rights of children. Yeah, so am I. The total optional part increases by eight weeks. I think it's very good for the child, very good. I believe in modern society, in solving this very elegantly within my own family – mother and father – and between the employee and the employer. It is absolutely right that a few generations ago there was probably a reason to work out some rights. But the world has gone further – at least the Right Party government – which it obviously has not done for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1307	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1310	Good leave arrangements are important for both mother and father, and for combining care for young children with professional activity, and the parental leave scheme ensures that one of the parents can be at home with the child in the first year of life of the child. I would like to say that I hope we will come there one day, where the earmarking of weeks to father and to mother will no longer be necessary. I hope that equality, including in the workplace, can come so far that both mother and father take leave and are met with respect for it in the workplace and at home. If we're going to be able to talk about real freedom of choice in the families of how to organise the leave period, I think it's only when there's full equality that this freedom of choice is real. But I hope, as I said, that we will come there one day, where the earmarking weeks for either mother or father will be unnecessary. But we're not there yet. So I just want to remind you a little bit about the story here. In the previous period, the Right and Advance Party were concerned that they should not be earmarked at all. They would eliminate that possibility. The Christian People's Party did not agree. I am very pleased that in the cooperation agreement we put in place a system that makes us still earmark ten weeks for father and ten weeks for mother, because I think it is necessary. Now I'm not going to hope for the Christian People's Party program, but it's actually the Christian People's Party program that was adopted, and it was important to us. I am pleased that, as I said, in the cooperation agreement we got this in place, and that the Right Party and the Advance Party are continuing a designation that I think is absolutely necessary. Then it is quite clear that we need to have flexible arrangements to ensure that the family has a freedom of choice and the ability to organise everyday life as they want it. I also think that a political detailed management of the families is not for the benefit of the family. We believe that the families themselves know what is best for them and their children, and that they make good choices for their family. At the same time, I would point out that there are many men who still describe a expectation that men take less leave than women, and that thus mother takes most of the leave beyond the quota reserved for father. That is why we believe that the parental quota is still a necessary instrument to ensure that Dad has more time with the child and that 10 weeks reserved for each of the parents ensure this at the same time as the freedom of choice is guaranteed. I hope, as I said, that one day we will get there that this is unnecessary, that equality comes so far both at home and at work. We're not there now, but it's only when we're there, the real freedom of choice is felt as relevant in the families.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1327	Children have the right to be with Dad and to be as safe with him as with Mom. Father needs to take a greater place in children's everyday lives. SV has been at the forefront of fighting maritime rights to have cardboard and greatly extended the paperwork. Otherwise we know it'll be like before – Mother takes perm and Dad works. Without rights that only Dad has, we won't be able to reverse the old-fashioned sex role patterns both in work and at home. This government will remove parts of the paperwork, and that's the majority of it. Then they don't think much about the children and about the children's right to get to know and be as secure about Dad as they are about Mom as a caregiver from they are young. They also don't think much about Dad who will face strong resistance in the workplace – we know that – in the comrades in many places still, yes, even from Mom, who will have the leave sail, if it isn't earmarked for father. Equal parenthood is important for SV, equal opportunities for work and family life are important for SV. Then we'll have to have cardboard. The children and fathers deserve it, and they deserve this permanence to be ear-marked, so that we can turn these patterns into children and fathers and the best of equality. It's kind of funny to listen to the debate here, where you think changes have come off over time. All the proposals that have ensured better equality in this society have been in favour of and the Progress Party has been against – each and every one of them – because the Progress Party believes it should adapt naturally. It might be interesting to hear what they think is natural. Is that how it has been before, is that how it was when I was young in the 1950s, is that how it was when I had little children in the 1970s, or is that how we have it today? What's natural really? For me, it's natural that children have the same right to their father as to their mother and are equally safe on them, and that we have the same expectations for father as for mother in work and at home. It's natural, but we have old patterns that prevent it from happening today, and then we have to have tools to change them. The government also knows that it is. When they changed the spring quota in the budget, and we asked how this calculation was related, they showed that it was the mother who was going to be more at home, and so they could cut up to several hundred million dollars in the budget. It was probably a loving sum of money that could also receive income for this. At the same time, the kindergartens have weakened with thousands of places and made it uncertain to have a kindergarten. For the first time in many years it has been like this. And that wasn't enough, the cash support should also be increased. These are clearly signs from this government that equality is in reverse, it's not important. But I think the worst thing is that children may have to wait both in kindergarten and in dad. Children should not have to wait for Dad. We know that it works. Before the introduction of the spring quota in 1993, it took 2-3 pst. – and I repeat: 2-3 pst. – by Norwegian fathers out of leave. I don't think they were more unnatural when I think they were natural. But that's just the way it was then, because then the work and family life were like that. Nearly overnight the proportion increased to over 90 pst. because they were granted a right. So freedom of choice was not real. When they got the freedom of choice, i.e. the right to leave, they took it. Still, most fathers take out the birth rate, but when it's going to be reduced, we can look to Denmark to see how it's been when they've done it there. There the researchers say that after they removed the quota in 2001, Danish fathers now take out only 8 pst. of the days of leave. This is much lower than in Norway, where the average number of fathers is almost 20 pst. of the days of leave. It shows that the theory on which the Progress Party and the Right base their policy, namely that freedom of choice takes place completely in a vacuum entirely unaffected by old sex roles, or by expectations in the workplace, is not correct. It is that equality policy instruments work, and action against children works, and the children would have deserved better than this cut in the paperwork.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1346	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1349	This reminds us in many ways of the previous debate, where one really wants to talk about the best of children, but ends up in a structural debate instead. I would like to ask the representative Andersen a little about how she sees increased flexibility, because the fasitium – with the arrangements we have had – is that leave that was not taken out of the person who was entitled to it, for example. Dad part, didn't get the family at all. So there was less time for the child with one of the parents. There are different starting points in different families, and there are situations where mother or father cannot take their share. This makes it fall away, and the child gets less time with the family. It's also that fathers have a right to leave if they want to. They do not have to negotiate with their employer, they are entitled to leave if they want to. I'm thinking, what is the solution for those families that don't get the birth rate or the mother rate, as Andersen sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1358	It's a little strange that every time we talk about these examples, some father is absolutely indispensable at work. I think there are many mothers who are also indispensable at work. So the question here is how can we adapt family life and working life, so that children get the right to be with their parents. Then SV would like to draw these periods of time that you are entitled to leave, longer in time to adapt them. But we believe that the children's right to be with their parents is the most important thing, and that through these arrangements we have to ensure it. We don't think there's going to be any changes in this without your dad's own allowances, because this system is so new yet. But we also share the wish of the representative of the Christian People's Party that this should not be necessary in the future, but it is still far yours.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1363	I was a little worried that Andersen's representative would go on an autopilot, so I was very careful to say Mom and Dad and Mother and Father. So I might refer to the record – so it's okay. But I still don't understand how to respond to the flexibility that you actually need in 2014, because things are different. We've come further. It's okay for fathers to take out leave now, on the same line as it is for mothers, and we're in a completely different situation than for example. Denmark in 2001 — 13 years ago — as it was referred to. I would like to repeat the question: what arrangements — for example: the trust-based arrangement that we want to look at – is SV and Andersen involved in responding to the flexibility that is actually needed in a modern society for mothers and fathers, which should have as much time as possible with their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1372	I would like to pay more attention to the hearing opinions that have come to light on this matter, for example. from the NHO. They have come with clear warnings, because they know how the working life works, and they know that the expectations of fathers in working life are such that sometimes you push out that your father should not be so much away and not take out the leave. What it would have been possible to assess — if this government had come along with it — is if you could take the leave over several years, extend it over several years, to allow this to be adjusted, if there was a special situation right then. I expect that the representative from the Right also agrees that it is not about so many weeks where Dad has a leave that is earmarked only for him, and that in a few years the employer and father should find an opportunity that Dad can take leave these weeks. That is what I think the children deserve – and so should the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1382	The representative, Andersen, was concerned with Mother's opportunities and rights, and pointed out that it might also be for some mothers that they were long away from work. Does that mean that Andersen's representative supports what we're doing now, by reducing the amount of time that's required for Mother, so that she can get back to work faster and share that time with Dad?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1389	SV has promoted the scheme that we have had before. It's a matter of course our primary wish, because we see that it's necessary to change the gender role patterns that dad takes out a certain proportion of this leave, and that the designation that happens to father is an instrument to change these gender roles. The only reason I mentioned this was because the representative from the Right was up here and mentioned in the first sentence – every time – that it is difficult for Dad to be away from work. It may be, but it may well be for mother too. We'll see how to make changes here in the future, which means that both mom and dad get more time with the kids when they're young. That is what is important for SV, and then it is necessary to ensure father's permissive rights in particular, because they are the ones that are primarily under pressure. It is not Mother's permissive rights that have been under pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1399	Today, the size has a proposal to extend the common part of the parental leave period. The change involves increased flexibility for parents, which has been an important political wish of the government parties and not least of the cooperation parties. I am very pleased that the majority of the Committee supports this proposal. Several people have been involved in the debate on equality. There's a lot of good equality in good family policy. At the same time, more gender equality measures are requested, and I can promise the representative of Aasrud that we will have ample opportunity to discuss when the government is going to promote gender equality. Norway has one of the world’s best parental care systems. It provides a unique opportunity to combine family life and work. The government's arrangement means that parents can still get 49 weeks of full coverage, while increasing the flexibility of the scheme. We're going to keep the total length of the leave, and we're going to increase the bulk. This is especially important for children, as many people have been involved, who can spend more time at home with one of the parents than they experience today. It's actually about the children and, as Andersen's representative was about, about the children's right to have parents around them. Children and families are different, with different needs. The government's family policy is based on freedom of choice, and we respect different choices and trust that parents themselves can make choices that are best for themselves and their children. For me and the government, it is therefore important to facilitate a flexible parental pension scheme. The current system has gone too far in regulating how the family should organise the leave period. In reducing the mother's quota and the father's quota, the optional part of the leave will be eight weeks longer, and we will have a system that can be easily adapted to the situation of each family. That's exactly what it is today: fathers and mothers can take leave for a long time – and they can take it longer with the new change that the government is presenting here now than with today's system. Critics often refer to Denmark in terms of parental quota experience. Last autumn, however, the Danish Government, led by the Socialists, announced that it would not reintroduce the quota. This was, among other things: justified that there would be a risk that families would take less leave overall than today. Minister of Employment Mette Frederiksen said in a press release: «It has never been the intention of the government that the children and families should end up paying the price of earmarked maternity». Here we are essentially at the core: in some families, mother or father does not have the opportunity to take out their entire earmarked quota. As a result, they lose these weeks on paid leave to be at home with their child. At the same time, the child is often too small to have children's playgrounds. This means that the family must find other solutions, such as: that the other parent is at home unpaid. That, in my view, is not a good solution. If we are to think about children's rights and children's best, it must be possible to have one of their parents at home as far as possible. With the arrangement of the government, parents are given the opportunity to choose for themselves which of the eight additional weeks that are now added to the common portion, and we contribute to the child in this way getting the most time possible with one of their parents. To the representative Grande: Yes, fathers can by law get more, and demand more, weeks than they are entitled to today. The critics also claim that it will be more difficult for fathers to take out a larger part of the leave period, because fathers have to negotiate with employers. We should not negate under the attitudes that it is more difficult for men than for women to obtain leave. I believe we need to have greater confidence in the employers, and not least in the fathers. Women and men have the same right to parental leave under the Working Environment Act. In 2014, neither women nor men shall have to stand by the hand in order to obtain leave. Fathers want to take care of them, and they want to take parental leave. The participation of fathers is a good thing for both the child, mother and father. I am concerned that fathers should be able to spend time with their children in the infant phase. At the same time, the parental pension scheme must be flexible so that each family can find the best solution for their own family.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1426	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1429	Now we have heard both the government councils and representatives from the government parties explain how terribly difficult it is to get out these 14 weeks – it is an unreasonable intervention, and it is a detailed management of the family. Then my question is to the Council of State: why in the world do you keep ten weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1436	I expect that the representative, Mr Aasrud, has read both the Party programme of the Right and the Advance Party, where it says that we want to wind up the feather quota. So the representative Aasrud also knows that there have been government negotiations, and the government parties, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, have come to a solution where we want to have ten weeks' parental leave for mothers and fathers and increase the common share, so that families can now have several weeks to assess even if it is mother or father who is going to take this out. The representative of Aasrud has also been in government negotiations. In a cooperative government, sometimes it's not what's in the party program, that's being maintained, but I can assure the representative that the council is very comfortable with the solution that's on the table here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1445	My second question is that we have seen in the budget that the Progress Party has balanced its budget with cutting the appropriations for the scheme, because it is estimated that fewer fathers will take out parental leave. Will the Council of State follow the figures and take action if she sees that fathers are now getting away from the scheme, and that fewer fathers are taking advantage of the possibility of today's scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1452	Now it's the first time that there's been a reduction in the entire parental mortality rate. That's why the figures in the budget are very uncertain, and it also came out clearly in the budget round we had before Christmas. These are numbers that come from the directorate, which have the same way of counting that the representative is familiar with from when she was in government. So it's clear that this is what we're going to follow closely. This system will come into force from 1 July of this year, and the figures are, as I said, uncertain. Nothing would please me more than to come back in the new era in December if we saw that the numbers might be lower, because fathers and mothers have managed to find a different scheme than they had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1461	It has long been known that there have been several groups of men who have lacked the right to withdraw parental leave. When we met these stories when we had the red-green government, we constantly sought to extend rights to more groups of men – and several thousand more men were given the opportunity to take out fetal leave after we had our government period, from 2005. When the government parties are concerned that there are still some men who cannot take out the paper issue, why does the government not seek action to secure these men's rights? Why do all fathers have to suffer when the government sees shortcomings in the parental leave scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1468	By the fact that the government is now increasing the common share that can be of free distribution in the family, more fathers have the opportunity to take out more weeks than they have today. What has been important for the government is to give the families flexibility by giving them several weeks that they can freely distribute. Then the representative, Grande, is referring to something important, which the representative knows is also a budgetary issue. It is that several fathers should be able to have their own right of withdrawal. There is something that the government has to come back to in a budgetary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1478	The right the Council of State is talking about, to take part of the common pot, men already have today. It's not like it's an obstacle for men – that they can't take out more than 14 weeks. But now it's going to be possible for men to take more out of the common pot, because a lowers the father's quota – and thus lowers society's expectation that men will be at home with children. That seems to me to be a way of talking that is really talking away from the matter. Men have always followed very carefully the rules for what the feather quota – and the length of it – has promised. Every time we've increased it, men have taken out to the same extent. I think we're going to see the exact same thing right now -- that when it goes down from 14 to 10 weeks, men will follow. I think the Council of State realizes that too – but she might not care?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1485	Well, unlike the representative of Grande, I actually believe in the Norwegian man and fathers out there – that they want to take several weeks of paperwork with their children. That's the possibility the government now gives by increasing the commonality, so that the family can be allowed to behave as it pleases best. And if there are fathers who want to take out more than the 14 weeks that they have today, or they take out less – or if the mothers want to take out more, or take out less – the families now stand in a completely different situation, by increasing a common share that they can distribute as the family decides, without us politicians going in and deciding these weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1490	I want to follow up on what the representative Aasrud said, because it wasn't about a budgetary question – that you had to adjust the budget if it didn't go as the government had calculated, that it was the mothers who were going to be at home, and that it was the fathers who were going to go to work. The question was: if it turns out now that fathers take out less leave, and that we get an equality in reverse, also for the same parenthood that I have heard councillor Horne has talked about and been occupied with very many times – what does the council do? Does the Council of State think it's okay to get a less equal parent, that we get back a more traditional gender role pattern, that fewer fathers take out less leave, that more mothers take out more leave – that we get a change in the behavior pattern based on the change that the government has now proposed? Would the Council consider the instrument if she saw that equality was actually put in reverse?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1495	There is a lot of good gender equality policy in good family policies, and giving families freedom of choice and flexibility is also good gender equality policy. That's why it's important for the government to make the change that's increasing freedom of choice in these weeks, as we're now adding up to. So I know, as Andersen's representative is probably aware, that the entire parental pension scheme is a rule-based scheme. The figures in the budget are uncertain, and it is the Directorate of Labour that makes such calculations – in exactly the same way as calculations made during the reign of the representative’s party – in terms of both cash support, child benefit and parental leave. I'm going to follow those numbers very closely, and the Storting will be informed in the news in December if the numbers are different. But the most important thing for this government and the cooperation parties has been to give families greater flexibility and freedom of choice in terms of the parental pension scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1504	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1509	The centre batch does not support the reduction of the mother and feather quota from 14 to 10 weeks. We've been in the last few years to increase the rate of feathering, and that's a position that we're still on. We have good rights for parents in Norway, and that's a good thing that we're going to fend for. The parental pension scheme ensures that parents can be at home with their child in the infant phase. We also believe that the family's need for flexibility has been met with 14 weeks' mother and father quotas. Good leave arrangements are important for both parents to combine care for young children with paid work. For the Centre Party, the aim has been to increase the father’s association with the child in the parental leave. That's why we've been involved in increasing the feather ratio before. We believe that it has been right and still is important to get fathers to know their children more from birth and in the infancy and also to take responsibility for the child's education. The old arrangement for mother, where mother had the best permissive rights, could be one that in the worst case helped to keep mother in the kitchen. The red-green government provided for a change that would contribute to more equality between father and mother, and made sure that both had the same real opportunities to take out leave. There are changes that do not work from day one. It takes time to make a change. It is also about a change of attitude. Today's bill is, in our opinion, a step backwards for this equality. We fear that the change that is now being made increases the pressure on the man to be at work, while the lady is going to take the leave. The Center Party is for the freedom of families and believes that it is best for families to organize their own everyday life. Nevertheless, parental leave is not just about families and their freedom of choice; it is about working life and what expectations are there. We're worried that today's expectations can keep the woman at home while the man is working, and that's a society we don't want. A number of strong environments with knowledge of Norwegian working life have warned the government not to do the cuts they are doing. It is argued that this will help to maintain a gender-based labour market. If the goal of increasing equal pay is important, this is a big step backwards, and it's a step backwards that the Center Party won't join. That is why we are voting against the amendments proposed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1530	I just want to make a brief comment. It was one of the answers Horne gave in the loop, which made me take the word again. Councillor Horne keeps saying that she has faith in the Norwegian man, but she does not have great faith when the budget is aged 35 million. kr in the current year and a savings of between 130 and 150 million have been made. kr just because men take less leave than women. Then it gets a little wrong, I think, when Horne says that she uses the exact same calculation methodology as the Workers' Party and the Stoltenberg government did in their reign. The Stoltenberg government never cut the parental leave, therefore the Council of State Horne cannot use it as an argument for how she has cut her budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1535	I find it exciting to hear the ideological debate on this matter, even though I get engaged when representatives in this room think that they are better suited to putting up my family life than I am. Ultimately, this is about whether we have confidence in the kitchen-table democracy: do we believe that men and women in this country are able to be good leaders in their small family businesses and make the good choices, or do we believe that the state knows best and should test? Do we think business owners also think it's a good thing that dad gets home, or do we think they have to be overruled by law to have these values? Do we think that parents are able to have good, calm and respectful conversations about who is going to take the leave when, or do we think that this must be left to the state? The right answer is trust and trust policy, which also accepts that people make choices outside the adopted A4 solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1544	It was the summary from Tønder, where she says this is about kitchen-table democracy, which encouraged me to take a brief note at the very bottom of the debate, because it is really this word that sums up the entire government's equality policy: from the fact that public and community are involved in taking responsibility for each individual's freedom, each individual's ability to make their own choices, to take the decisions that you feel are right for their lives, to actually achieving equality, the whole equality policy must now be privatized. It goes like a red thread through all the matters the government is working on, including in this case, where fathers who meet the wall today either with the child's mother or with the employer get this message from the government: Sorry, you get it settled yourself, there's a matter between you and the employer that the state is not at all willing to take responsibility for. If the Right Party and the Advance Party had got what they wanted, they would certainly have removed the entire federal quota, so that no fathers had the opportunity to be home with their children. But it's not just in this area that you have that approach. It's in the area of equality policy in general, it's in the area of the right to kindergarten, it's in the field of government parties saying, "This gets people settled by themselves." It's a good message to give people, but we believe in another society. We believe in a society where the community stands up for each one when they need help, to actually ensure full equality. Some of the most vulnerable things we have in that context are children's growth. I cannot understand how the Right Party and the Advance Party are able to produce the parental leave regime as rigidly as they actually are, because the vast majority of Norwegian parents believe it is flexible and well organized for their lives. You can even take out the papers over the first three years of the child's life, which I myself do in these days. It is well organized, but there are some shortcomings. Then we have to straighten them out instead of weakening an entire order. The summary of this debate is that when it comes to gender equality, when it comes to contacting children, it gets to be a responsibility that people have to take for themselves; it doesn't want the big community to be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1557	Both the desire for gender equality and working life and the rights of children are important. It seems like more representatives here, but the Special Representative Tønder, who was up here at the end, thinks this is happening in a vacuum. This is the way that the structures of society, the legislation that is in society, promote or inhibit what we want, or what we don't want. I thought we all agreed that there are some arrangements that we have, and that we want to have, because we want a change in behavior. For SV, the paper issue has been important because we want a change in behaviour, namely that fathers should take more responsibility for children and that children should have greater rights to their father. It also turns out that we have broad support in our view of equality, that this is necessary in order to achieve real gender equality. Yes, we even have the support of the social partners and the NHO, who say that not ensuring this equality will put equality in reverse and even harm the Norwegian economy. So there's a lot of good arguments here. Many of us take most of our choices at the kitchen table, but they are not actually taken in a vacuum there either – they are influenced by society's arrangements and arrangements for us to make our free choices. We cannot bring free elections with us the child care policy Right and Advance Party stands for: there are too few children's playgrounds, you pay to keep the children away from kindergarten and mother away from work, with cash support or by reducing the paper issue, so that father and child get less rights to be together than we wanted to facilitate. It's the free choices we want people to make. Therefore, schemes must be in place in order to change old gender roles and old role patterns in working life and in the care of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1568	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1584	Numbers from NOVA show that since 1990, the number of children under one year of age receiving child protection has doubled and that one third of these children have been subject to care failure. We know that poor care at the start of life can lead to lasting damage to a child's mental health, cognitive development and ability to engage in good relations in the future. At the same time, we know that if we intervene early and prevent poor care, either by supporting parents or by taking care of the child, the chance of normal and good development is great. Early intervention is an important principle in the protection of children, and the purpose clause of the Child Protection Act, Section 1, states: «to ensure that children and young people living under conditions which may harm their health and development receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner». The right time for necessary assistance and care is as early as possible, not when the child is older and may have suffered serious injuries. The vast majority of parents want their children well, but not everyone knows how to behave or be around a small child. It is not just obvious abuse or care failure that can lead to stress and damage to children’s functioning and development, but for example. parents who do not respond to the child’s contact search, or are indifferent or invading in the interaction, may also harm the child. In order to help these families, early efforts and guidance are important, so that the family can get into a good pattern and create a change in parental interaction with the children. In other cases, it will be necessary to intervene and move the child away from his or her parents to ensure that he or she is well cared for. If care is poor, we don't have many years to figure it out. Then we have to intervene early and take good care of e.g.. foster home. Today, in particular, we have one measure to ensure that we are able to investigate the family through concern, drive change work and guidance, and finally to make a well-founded decision on the future of the child. This measure is parental and child centres. Here come families with small children for examination for a few weeks or for stay with follow-up and guidance of longer duration. In these centres, we have both the professional competence of children's protection and those with mental and physical health competence who can contribute to making recommendations on child protection. This is an action requested by the Child Welfare Service, which helps many families, and it helps to help many children who should already be moved from their parents as infants. In 2012, Buffdir made a recommendation to the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality to increase the use of such centres in order to better identify and make proper decisions for the future of the child. The Directorate states that the investigation and modification of vulnerable families of infants and young children is a specialised task which is not reasonable for municipalities to carry out, and that we should therefore turn the centres into a legal measure. Instead of following this recommendation, the Ministry has embarked on a transition and in that process more parents and child centres have been threatened with closure. I will commend the Council of State for stopping the closure of the Western centres, but I am concerned about the future of these centres both in the West and in the rest of the country. My concern is about both the centres run by the public, and ideal and private centres, which do a very good job. We are constantly getting a message of concern from ideals who run centers, that they are experiencing reluctance in Buffetat to use ideal centers. Several have experience that child protection services that address them with families are stopped in Buffetat and asked to wait in place in the public offer. The times when ideals are used, this must be carried out as an anomaly, and thus they are at risk of being spotted. The future of these institutions is highly uncertain and several have already had to start the process of closing the offer. This measure is not considered to be an emergency measure by Bufetat, and therefore it is not urgent to give families a place in a centre. When we know how serious lasting damage bad care from parents can already lead to the first few weeks, this is a very serious signal from those who are responsible for distributing places at the centres. The earlier we get in, the more we can help, and it's always urgent to give children and families the right help at the right time, as the law also states. My question to the Council of State is therefore how the Council of State will ensure early assistance, as all children are entitled to, and whether the government will legislate this measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1618	First, I would be allowed to thank the interpellant Bekkewold for raising an important debate on the offer of the very smallest children in child protection. Being able to prevent and work from the very beginning with problems that vulnerable families have, saves children, the family, and not least society too much. Knowledge of the development of infants and young children has increased considerably in recent years. We have gained more knowledge of children’s needs and of how much of the children are expected to live in serious health risks. More methods have also been developed in recent years to investigate and help children and families at such risks. We know that giving the right help as early as possible in a child's life can be crucial for the child's development. The centres for parents and children provide a 24-hour and specialised offer of investigation and modification work for vulnerable families with infants and young children. Many of those centers also provide help while the family lives at home. The age of children varies from 0–12 years, but the main gravity is in the 0–2 age group. The centres are primarily an offer to the smallest children at risk. Many municipalities have neither the competence nor the ability to observe and follow up parents with young children in their everyday lives. The provision of accommodation by parents and children’s centres allows for close follow-up, including: by observing how parents accept the help. I am very concerned that the smallest children and their families will get good help, and I have clear ambitions to provide a good offer for this group. In 2012, the Ministry commissioned Bufdir to assess how an overall offer to vulnerable families with infants and young children aged 0–3 years could look like. The Directorate set up a working group consisting of external and internal resource persons. The report by the working group underlines that serious difficulties in infants and young children require a knowledge-based service provision where parallel and specialised efforts are needed. The report also points out that child-rescue workers, health centres and kindergartens do not sufficiently detect developmental disorders and the development of misalignment in infants and young children. They believe that the top competence for the investigation and modification of this target population is consistently low in municipalities. The survey also showed that there is a consistently high quality and competence in the centres for parents and children, and that this is an important offer, which the municipalities need. There are now twelve state, two municipal councils in Oslo and six private centres for parents and children in the country. It is the parents themselves who care for the child during the stay. The aim is to improve development opportunities for individual children by strengthening parental skills. Sometimes the main goal is to address the needs of the family and the care of their parents. Last spring, the Stortinget joined Prop 106 L for 2012–2013. The division of responsibilities between municipal and state child protection is made clear here. It was decided that as a general rule, Bufetat should not carry out tasks that the Swedish Child Protection Act adds to the municipalities. Clear lines of responsibility are important for good interaction between municipalities and Bufetat. But there are also important economic aspects here. Buffetate is required to balance and must carry out the necessary conversions to achieve this. It's also after the leadership given by the Stortinget in Prop 106 L. The Children’s Protection Act does not oblige Bufetat to provide local authorities with places in centres for parents and children, as Bufetat should in the case of places in child protection institutions. This is justified by the general division of labour between State and municipal child protection, where investigation and relief measures are municipal responsibilities. However, at the request of the municipalities, Bufetat shall allocate existing lucky day seats to centres for parents and children. This is not based on the law, but on the ministry's office management in the letter of assignment that they got from us this year. With regard to expenditure, Paragraphs 9 to 4 of the Children’s Protection Act provide that Bufetat is, as a general rule, intended to cover that part of the municipal expenditure on the stay that exceeds a fixed component. If Bufetat considers that investigations into centres for parents and children are not necessary, municipalities must consider alternative measures, including the full funding of the stay. It will have significant financial implications for the State if the Child Protection Act is amended in such a way that the State has obligations to provide local authorities with places in centres for parents and children. Such an extension of the responsibility of the State under the Child Protection Act must therefore be investigated. The aim in this area must be to give children and their parents the best possible offer. Alternative ways of helping these children and parents therefore need to be considered, while the provision of local authorities in this area needs to be reviewed. It is on this basis that I have asked the directorate to suspend the process of conversion in this area, pending an investigation into how we can secure the target audience for parents and children's good and proper help. The Directorate shall provide the Ministry with a report during the year describing how they consider that responsibility for tasks and financing should be shared. I have asked that the report should make the economic and legal consequences visible in relation to the existing offer to the target audience. In addition, I have asked for a socio-economic analysis of increased efforts towards vulnerable infants and young children and their parents. If we can get in early, it's socio-economically profitable. Parents are the most important people in children’s lives. Some parents are uncertain or do not have the role of parent. It is therefore essential that child protection comes in early and is well monitored by children and parents. In this way, we can get in with effective help at home and give parents who are struggling, the help and the support needed to be good caregivers. Measures that strengthen the interaction and association between children and parents in the infant and young children phase can prevent care failure and mental and social problems. For many years, the centres for parents and children have been an important part of the offer to these children and their parents. Through the ongoing investigation by the directorate of the offer of vulnerable children and parents, for which I have taken the initiative, I expect professional advice and assessments that can provide the basis for designing a comprehensive policy for this particular target group. The place centres for parents and children in the overall offer will be an important part of the assessments to be made. I just want to tell the representative that I am asking to be allowed to come back to details, when the investigation is available, whether this should be statutory duties, or whether it should be like today. But I think we all agree before the debate starts, that parents and children's centres are an important offer that both young children and parents need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1656	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I do not doubt the ambitions of the Council of State on behalf of the youngest children and their families, but at the same time I will express impatience with a view to ensuring a good offer to these families and these children, so that we avoid what is the situation at some point today, namely that you have to stand in line until there is a free space in the public institutions. It's about using the tools we have, and using the measures that exist. Because, as the Council of State and I fully agree, with early efforts this is extremely important also in view of the development of the child later in life. That is why I am impatient, and I hope that we can arrive at a comprehensive policy in this area fairly quickly. I believe that the Council of State must also take into account this work the signal that Bufdir gave in 2012, with a clear recommendation to increase the use of such centres in order to better determine and make the right decisions for the child's future. They were also concerned that the legalisation of this measure should be considered. Then I understand that, pending such an investigation, the Council of State cannot decide on it now, but I hope that the Council of State will carefully assess it. By lawmaking, we also guarantee these children in a completely different way from what we are doing now, where there are budgets at any time that determine whether you can afford to buy places, including ideals. Because as the Council of State was in, it has an economic side, and Bufdir has been instructed to balance. Well, then this is also going to be a budgetary question in the future. The most important thing is that we ensure that we have measures that allow us to get in early where there is concern that the child is experiencing care failure. These centres have a special competence that we can't expect the municipalities to build up. We have the measures, the question is whether we're willing to use them. That's what in many ways is the challenge that I'm getting into this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1665	I was a little technical in my main post, and it was a little to explain how the procedure was. It is also on a mission from Stortinget, who has asked both the directorate and Buffetat to make some changes. The conversions are that responsibility between the municipal and state services becomes an important part: what is the responsibility of the municipalities, and what is the responsibility of the State? So once Buffetat has been told to reduce, it has gone beyond these parents and children centres, because it is a monitoring offer as stated in the law that the municipalities should be responsible for. Like the interpellant, I'm impatient about this. I can assure the representative that this is being followed very carefully. That is why, when we received these concerns before Easter that this offer was dropped, we stopped the conversion. In February, the Directorate was informed that municipalities should be assisted with the allocation of existing lucky day seats in parents’ and children’s centres. When we saw that several places in this offer began to be laid down, it was important for me to intervene and stop the conversion and say that it should be at the level it is, to ensure that we have an offer for the very least. It is going to be an important matter for me in the future to take care of. When all the agencies, both professionals and child protection managers and all those who have been in parents and children's centres – and we saw a report in the NRK now on Sunday where they interviewed a mother who said that I had not been there today if I had not been to a parent and children's centre – say that this is such an important special offer, we must listen and have such an offer. We also have to look at who is going to fund this task. We know that there are a lot of municipalities that are unable to have this offer. It will be important to include in the further debate how we can ensure that parents and children's centres are an offer that we will give to parents and children in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1674	Thanks to the interpellant, which addresses both the use of parents and children’s centres and the concern about the cuts that are taking place, which may lead to a lack of prevention and early family support. Everyone agrees that prevention and early intervention are the best we can do to avoid problems. The law exists – through the Children’s Protection Act – and follow-up is the responsibility and responsibility of local authorities towards children. They are also responsible for cooperating with others to solve the tasks assigned to them by law. Prevention concerns both care failure and behavioural problems. They have that responsibility, and they take it. The option that cannot be reached can be care-taking. It is dramatic, but often absolutely necessary, and for the benefit of children. For everyone involved, it will set deep tracks, and it will often feel very unfair and difficult to understand. However, when this is done, one must have confidence that all attempts at measures that have been tested have not been made. Therefore, early involvement is important. In addition, care takeovers are a professional issue that politicians can find difficult to address, even if many people contact them. But we know that early help and support can prevent and prevent, and when it succeeds, it is best for everyone, both parents, children and society. There may also be a greater understanding of takeover if you have tried to solve the problems in advance. The best thing for the child is to grow up with an almost normal family life. Getting care, stability and security is the ideal thing, but unfortunately reality isn't like that. 2 900 children were moved in 2012. Many of these might have been helped earlier. Because there are many people who need help to make life work. Some parents may never have had a normal upbringing themselves and find it difficult to know what it is to be caregivers for their own children and to pass on care. Other ports in various crises and need help for that reason. That is why we need different measures. Family centres cover an important part of this need. They mainly include young people from 0 to 6 years of age, pregnant women in need of help, young parents, non-ethnic Norwegian families, and drug treatment families. There are many with different problems that can get a good deal. Children’s services in municipalities have knowledge of the problems and help find those who need help. I want to bring out the health care sister service in the municipalities. It's an important contribution to finding kids who don't have it well. They meet Mother as a pregnant mother and as a newly-baked mother, they meet her little on health and child checks, and they're on home visits. They can easily see things that are not right. Therefore, it is important to continue to expand the health care service, as the previous government did. They can alert, therefore they are also an important player in the prevention work. There has been a lot of good in child protection in recent years, and the economy has been strengthened. But although there are more jobs and better finances, there are still too many who are not doing well. Some time ago, I had an interpellation about foster homes, and the debate there showed how many challenges we still have and that need to be solved better. Congestion addresses this issue with family centres, which are an important part of prevention. Wild people in Westfold, mentioned above, have good results. They aim to improve child-growth conditions and help parents to become good caregivers, but where that is not possible, further care needs are clarified for young people. That's how they work for the best of children. Therefore, it is easy to share the concerns of Beckewold when you hear about the cuts that are happening. There is no shortage of families in need of help. The best thing is to take advantage of the offers that already exist and that we see work. The Labour Party will have good actors, and I will show that we, together with the Christian People's Party, have pointed to the need for further development of the cooperation agreement between the state and the non-profit sector. I will also briefly mention follow-up and post-protection, which are other factors that need to be in place. In my interpellation, I took up the idea of introducing foster homes for the whole family. It is also a way of helping families to get routines and ways of living and to improve care, but to a lesser extent than centres. It might work for some families. Children deserve wise adults who take responsibility and who make sure that life and everyday life work when care fails from the caregivers. And, as has been said repeatedly from this pulpit: it is the best of children to be founded, imposed by law or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1702	The most important thing we can do when children are not doing well is to see the child as early as possible and take good action. That is why I am pleased that the interpellant addresses the question he is doing, and I am pleased with the Council's answer in this matter. We need to protect the good measures. We all have an obligation to say from if we suspect that something is wrong. If you have a bad stomach feeling, it should be notified. Also, individuals have to notify, rather than once too little, if you think a child is hurting. Some of us think this is embarrassing. We're hiding behind that someone else has probably seen it. Some people report that the obligation of professional secrecy builds walls that do not necessarily make it difficult to report but to obtain information so that the message belongs to the appropriate states. At our national meeting, it was unanimously agreed that the rules on professional secrecy between public authorities need to be reviewed and simplified in order to ensure the fundamental rights and needs of children and young people. Our trusted representatives reported that they felt that there were challenges here that were not for the best of the child. I'm dealing with this in this context, because if we're going to get into these families early enough as troublesome, we need to know that those who work on these challenges have the right tools to build a culture of transparency and cooperation for the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1713	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant Geir Jørgen Bekkewold for raising an important debate where prevention is in focus. I think we have to look at several things in the area of child protection. Interpellant deals with prevention, precisely in order to avoid unnecessary takeovers. There is no doubt that the number of takeovers in recent years has increased significantly, and perhaps some of these could have been avoided. There is no doubt that what the interpellant says about early intervention and early efforts to prevent, precisely by providing help and facilitating families to manage themselves and find the good life. When we know that seven out of ten child-restraint children end up with poorer education, poorer school qualifications and poorer health conditions, early intervention and prevention are important. Therefore, I have faith in my own government when it says it will reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. There is a lot of bureaucracy that today may prevent those who work in the field of child protection from doing a good job. We are the ones who need to make it possible for the entire child protection service to deliver good offers and cooperate well with families in simple domestic actions that may make it easier for individuals. I think the interpellant has something to do with looking at the offer we're talking about, along with a number of other measures and offers. Since the number of care services has increased so significantly, and so many measures are being taken today in the field of child protection, I think that time is overdue to look at several things in the field of child protection. I don't think there's just one solution, but there's no doubt: when the number of caretakers has increased so dramatically, something has to be done, and it should have been done years ago. We have to get back to the belief that the Child Welfare Service is something good, something positive and well-being, not something that is “fy and shame” and is considered an enemy. There shall be relief measures. And then we need to enable child protection and the entire child protection service to carry out that job and to facilitate that they can best help the individual family. The worst thing that exists is when children are taken out of the family, from parents who might have had the help they would have had to raise children to have good, long lives. The whole community would have earned it. So I welcome a later debate on how we can better facilitate good child protection measures. It's possible we'll look at some of the measures mentioned from the interpellant, but I think we'll see it in a larger context, with more actions. I also hope that the Council of State will come back at a later stage with more measures and offers, to see how we can make child protection better able to do a good job that meets the help needs of parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1726	I would also like to take the opportunity to give tribute to the representative, Mr Bekkevold, for having raised an important matter. Most people in Norway put their children ahead of everything. Nevertheless, when children have parents who are unable to provide care and safety, there is a broad consensus that society should take responsibility. Sometimes it goes through a conversation, sometimes followed up in different ways – and eventually: sometimes society has to take care of it. Children deserve, first of all, wise adults, adults who take responsibility and provide the necessary help and care when those who were to take responsibility fail. It is best for children to be given crucial importance when initiating initiatives and actions. Interacting with a family and questioning things that happen within the four walls of the house, will usually be dramatic and controversial. At the same time, this is necessary for the sake of children, even when it appears that warnings were based on misunderstandings or errors. Child protection – the protection of children – is given great attention both in society around and here in the Grand Duchy. That's good and necessary. We have to keep on going to make sure that we also make the best contribution through the Stortinget. In the government budget for this year, there was a cross-political consensus that there is still a need to increase the capacity and competence of the child protection service, also as a result of the registration that takes place, which shows that more and more children are in need of help. The representative of Bekkevold’s interpellation is about early efforts through voluntary relief measures directed by NPISHs. As we did in budgetary terms, the Labour Party will underline the need for just early action and increased knowledge. We will also take the opportunity to refer to our comments on the matter we have just dealt with here in this Chamber, where we point to the need for further development of the cooperation agreement between the state and the non-profit sector. However, in the 2014 budgetary procedure in the Stortinget, the government parties Right and the Progress Party called for the use of all available child protection capacities under private and non-profit schemes. It created great expectations of capacity expansion and something quite different from the state councillor Horne has now described as a continuation of what was last year's framework. Now, when one sees a development that clearly shows that we are not practicing exactly what the majority said, the relationship between words and actions is not directly impressive. Also in the RNB, which has just been presented, it is confirmed that the government has not chosen to follow up the government’s own stated priorities for 2014. Child protection has not reached among government bet areas, but has been deflected with some re-priorities for the benefit of parents — no increases, no signs of the use of available child protection capacity. In the budgetary position, Innst. 14 S for 2013–2014, government parties say the following: ‘In order to provide the best possible offer, the majority consider it essential to make use of all the adequate child protection capacities, including private and non-profit-making. The majority ask the government to follow up and ensure that private and non-profit providers of child protection services are used [[...]] But the Council of State said in its statement here today that Buffetat is obliged to balance. The question then has to be: how has the Council of State followed up the majority budget mandate? Or is it that the capacity that is not currently used – and we record that there are constant requests as to whether someone has available capacity – can be defined as a not good service?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1750	I would like to thank you for a good debate, thank you for many good, important contributions. I think these posts also have to be interpreted as a very clear signal to the Council of State that here we have expectations. I think the Council of State has also stated that this is an area she will have a strong focus on in the future. It's been said many wise things. The starting point is that a good childhood lasts life. Children who experience living in a family where care is not working must get help early. Proper and timely assistance is a keyword that both the Child Welfare Service and these measures must work for. Then I fully agree with the representative Sonja Mandt, who also draws this on the health care service – that it is an important service to expand. They're important listening posts out there that can also catch up many things. This shows – I think Sonja Mandt really points out – that within this area, everything is related to everything. I fully agree that we need to continue to focus on strengthening health care, both in health centres and in schools. Otherwise, I have expectations, as I said, after hearing this debate. I think it is a little sad that no more parties than those who have participated have participated in this debate. It was a big drag on the committee's first case. I had actually expected that it would also be on this matter. But this is something we'll come back to, and I'm very excited about the investigation that's going on. I have registered that there are not very many who have spoken for the same thing as the Christian People's Party has done, namely to legislate for that task, but I have realized at the Council of State that this is something she will assess in connection with this investigation. I also hope several parties will join in looking at it. It will help to ensure these measures in a completely different way than if it is only up to any annual budget to decide whether or not these measures can be used. So it's not a major point here to make this a struggle between public and non-profit organisations. It is the measures that are important here. I hope that we will be able to ensure these measures in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1764	It was basically the last thing that was a good summary – that we have to make sure that we have this offer with parents and children-centres for the smallest children and families. What is also important in this debate – let us remember – is that 80 pst. of all child protection measures taken at home. Getting in early and giving the family help at home is important. But there is not only child protection that has an important task, but also the health wards – which the representative Mandt was in for – and which I am very pleased that the government has signaled that we should continue to strengthen in the future. It is important that municipal politicians also bear this in mind – that they see the importance of focusing on prevention and early intervention. It will also bring savings to other budgets. We also have several model municipalities. We have "My Life" municipalities. When I've been to the municipalities, I see that more and more municipalities now make family centres where they gather all the services that go to children, young people and families together. They work much more cross-border than they've done before. I believe that the way to work will also bring in children and families who need help, for the benefit, so that we can get in early. It is important that we have the children and families surveyed as early as possible. That's the mapping task the municipalities are responsible for, and that's the whole core here. So the municipalities are going to do it, and then they're going to ask us in the state for help. When there is a risk that these specialised services for which the municipalities are unable to take responsibility will be cancelled due to the fact that the directorate and Buffetat will be relocated and save money – which has been announced by a total collapse – it is worrying. I am therefore very happy that we have now stopped this conversion. I can promise the interpellant once again that this with parents and children's centers will be important in the future. We also get the report that shows how the dimensioning of the offer should be, and whether it should be a statutory task or not. It is quite clear that I can take the setting based on Prop. 106 L for 2012–2013 with me from here. It clearly shows that in the Stortinget it was only a Christian People's Party who asked that parents and children's centers be assessed by law. This interpellation was about these parents and the children’s centres. I will take it further with me and promise that we will work to have an offer, so that all the parents and children who need this offer will have it. When the representative Aasrud is lacking in child protection, a revised budget has been revised. When we've at the same time strengthened the parents who've been taken from the children, there's also the strengthening of children in child protection that's worried about their parents when they're elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1781	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over. Case No. 5 and 6 are interpellations, and the President will propose, by reference to Section 79 of the Rules of Procedure, to depart from the general procedure for interpelling debates by discussing them together. The two interpellations are largely related to the same theme. – Nobody has asked for the floor, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1814	The President will then propose that the speaking time be allocated as follows: First, the interpellant and the two members of the Government receive one post each of up to 10 minutes, followed by a new post of up to 3 minutes each. Then open for up to 15 speakers with a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Finally, the interpellant and the two members of the Government are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted. The President will further refer to the inter-pelling texts on agenda No. 70, and will also deviate from common practice by the President not going to read out the two interpellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1823	One moment I wondered if I was being interrupted by applause from the outside of the speaker's chair, but it was hardly the city policy's applause. The combination of population growth and urbanisation is perhaps the biggest change in Norwegian society in our time and decades to come. Our best estimate today is that we want a population growth of about 1 million people by 2030. That means that in just a few small generations we have seen big changes. I grew up with an idea that Norway had 4 million people. My children will grow up in a Norway with about 6 million people. This is also part of a global trend. While approx. Half – we have passed half – of the world’s 7 billion people no cage in cities, estimates that by 2050 as much as three quarters of the world’s population can live in cities. I also believe that many of us have grown up with a show that still stands out strongly that Norway is a country where one mainly lives in the countryside – spread abroad. But the picture is actually the opposite. Most of them live in cities. In addition, a lot of people have spread out. In addition, one sees that of the rather strong growth we want, about three-quarters of him will come in four large urban areas – around Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and on North Jären. But – and it is often under-communicated – we will also see growth in other important urban areas, such as at the lower Glomma, Grenland, Vestfold towns, Mjøs towns, Agder, Tromsø and Bodø, and also in smaller towns. It's e.g. so that the centre of Sogndal has had stronger population growth in the last ten years than Oslo has had. This urban growth is not – to a large extent – caused by the loss of the rest of the country, by high birth rates and labour migration. Most areas in Norway can count on stability, or even popular euphoria. It's a big development challenge. At the same time as the population is going up, greenhouse gas emissions are going straight down. As we become more and need more space, we must stop the loss of natural disasters, preserve green lungs and cultural history and create living urban spaces. It is a great opportunity to modernise and develop Norway, which envys us all across Europe. But it's also a challenge. I want to say that the reason why, in my view, we need a city policy is three-thirds. First, there is a strong need for greater coherence and integrity in what is urban policy. This must take place openly in – most likely – most of the departments of a government, but the need to shape a policy is there. Just as one over many decades has had a district policy, we need even stronger than what we have, a coordinated urban policy. Second, the area is going to be a good thing. It's going to be scarce in the future. Then land use needs to be better planned. A former head of road has said that land policy is the mother of transport policy. On the food and localisation side, we need to make sure that it happens in the centre, not that it kills the center and increases transport needs. And we have to make sure that we don't build down beach areas, nature, outdoors and areas that people in Norway will want to use even more in the future. It's not going to happen on its own, it requires a conscious land policy. Thirdly, in my view, stronger state involvement is necessary to ensure this, especially in a period of particularly strong growth. It means clearer goals and visions from the state. This also means that one has to contribute more financially, for example, as the country now has to make for collective development, stronger governance, and not least to take care of the area. I have asked two councillors to come here to contribute their visions. Let me present drafts in the form of ten fines for urban policy that I made myself while I was Minister of Environmental Protection. The first prayer is: You should be happy in the city and cultivate the variety and creativity that exists there. The city's unique features are often the lack of expressions and ways of life that you can find there. A city that's alive has a lot of this. That's often why people want to stay there. Being able to value, enjoy and actually develop the peculiarities that are in cities, and give more towns in Norway more of that, I think it's important. The second floor reads: you should not abuse the ability to build dwellings in places that belong to it. For the time being this year, we have lower housing construction than we had in the same period last year. It's very worrying, because last year one was also below the need one estimates to have. About 30,000 dwellings were built in Norway last year. The need might be 38 000. If the trend continues, it will lie a long way below that number again. That's why there's a need to tackle it, strengthen the Husbank, build more student buildings this year and not least build where it's right, especially along the collective nodes. It should set minimum requirements for residential construction there. The red-green government was listening to state planning guidelines for land and transport that are not yet developed. I see in the meeting that these come into force quite quickly. The third commandment is to keep the quality of buildings sacred. The stupidest thing to do – even if building buildings quickly is important – is to build low-quality and low-life dwellings. When it comes to building, we take decisions that will stand for decades to come. It is bad for environmental policies and resource use to be built so that one will not use it in 20–30 years. It's stupid to build in a quality that's not attractive and that gives a city we don't want in 60-70 years. The fourth floor is: you have to honor public transport so that you can arrive safely and quickly and live a long time in the country. The Climate Communication sets out a common objective for urban passenger transport growth to be achieved by public transport, bicycles and corridors. It's a huge challenge, and the most important tool we have now is the new urban environment agreements. In NTP, if one implements it, NTP can represent a significant decline in greenhouse gas emissions towards 2020. But the main thing is the urban environment agreements. They must be put into practice with a combination of financial support, incentives and pressures in them. The fifth floor is: you have to equip bicycles and environmentally friendly cars. Norway is a fantastic electric car country, which we've got in common. Now, perhaps the greatest transformation potential we have is the bicycle. It's a great potential for walking and cycling around our big cities. It's one of the most effective climate measures you know. It is also unlikely to be a good policy for urban air pollution, and not least it can change the land use around transport and save a lot of space that one can use for other things in cities. The sixth floor is: you don't have to break the marker. Fortunately, there is great uprising in Oslo around Markalova and Markagren, and in Bergen and Trondheim around similar borders. My vision is that we should slowly, but surely develop those areas, bind them together. Not least, we have major challenges in the regions around Oslo – e.g.: in Follo, where I live – where there are many green areas that are split up and that are constantly being built down and threatened by increased migration. Strengthening them is important. The seventh floor is: you shouldn't lure people out of the center. One of the most important things we know about urban quality is that we have to build up cities that have a quality of proximity, where culture, school, nutrition and what's needed are close to where people are. A report ordered by the former Ministry of the Environment also showed that in almost all the major cities surveyed, the centre trade part of total trade is falling significantly and losing towards shopping centres outside the cities. The previous government tried to fine it by introducing new rules for purchasing centres. They're gone. I see that at least there are other thoughts about how we can prevent a growth that kills the centre trade and, in addition, is planning to increase greenhouse gas emissions and transport needs. The eighth commandment is: You shall desire a city where there is little difference between people. From cities we know that preventing people from being completely scattered, that they're forming ghettos, but that, on the contrary, there are small differences between people in a lack, is important for being good cities. The ninth floor is: you will have several partners. Now we're at the beginning of an exciting process, not just necessarily with collaboration, but merging. My most important birthrate, perhaps, is not just looking at it as a small municipal challenge, but even more as a major municipal challenge in those areas where there is a need for better coordination of land transport, where municipalities are close but perhaps large. The 10th floor is: you do not need more plans than necessary, but you need a plan. Now we have a professional advice that has made a very good recommendation. We should continue the Groruddals bets and other bets locally, the cities of the future, increase the investment in research programmes, but not least: I look forward to the government taking the technical advice and presenting a big message on urban policy. There is also much inspiration to get for the work done by the Minister for Climate and Environment at the Justice National Meeting, where exciting things were agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1890	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for inviting dialogue and debate on an important topic. As Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, I am also the City Minister, and I am happy to have every opportunity to talk about cities and urban policies and I am glad that it will be on the agenda. Land policy, how we plan our cities, is a key to sustainable urban development. All decisions on the location and design of business, housing and infrastructure provide guidance on how cities and urban regions will function in the future. Planning is therefore a key tool for ensuring sustainable urban development. Good and coordinated housing, land and transport planning shall underpin attractive and climate-smart cities. We have to plan for the densification of existing urban areas with a continuous green structure where the design of cities makes it easy to pick up children in kindergarten, travel to and from work or meet friends without having to use the car. The Minister for Climate and Environment has the overall responsibility for achieving the climate and environmental objectives. This also includes urban climate and environmental policies. Urban planning is essentially a municipal responsibility. I'll hold on to that. Increased state detail management will weaken the city's own responsibilities. I noticed in Bård Vegar Solhjell's introduction that he basically asks for more government governance in urban policy. I believe that is the wrong way to go. I don't think I heard a single word about urban politicians. We have our own administrative level, the municipal level, which has the basic responsibility for urban planning. I think it's the wrong way to go to increase the state detail management of the cities. We need to put more responsibility on and have greater confidence in our city politicians as well. I believe that over time we have seen that cities are increasingly taking climate and environmental considerations into account in their planning and focus on developing good urban spaces. I am committed to having good dialogue with the city councils and helping to strengthen this positive development. As Minister for the Environment, Solhjell appointed a technical council for sustainable urban policy. In December 2013, together with the Minister for Climate and Environment, I received their recommendations. All members of the Council supported the 11 Councils given in the report, but disagreed with the 34 proposals for measures in total. In my answer to the interpellant's question, I focus on what urban policy this government is going to pursue. The Technical Council included both the environment, the economy and social conditions in the concept of sustainability. I think that's wise. Municipalities must be given leeway to take advantage of the positive forces that exist locally. The state can stimulate the development of ideas and action and facilitate urban development in dialogue between different sectors and disciplines. That's right, as the interpellant pointed out, cities and urban areas are growing, and many are going to grow a lot. If we look at Oslo and Akershus, Oslo and Akershus will grow by about 30 p.m. the next 16 years. There are almost 300,000 inhabitants, and it is planned for both dwellings, commercial areas and other infrastructure, and we see similar for other cities and urban regions – that they are also growing, and they are growing. This is why the government is committed to facilitating the municipalities of growth, also by improving the growth grant that we have outlined in the municipal bill that was presented last week. In urban regions, urban development patterns and transport systems go across urban boundaries. The Board stresses the importance of cross-sectoral cooperation on a continuous basis. The combination of strong growth in urban regions and a municipal structure that is not adapted to today’s housing and work regions poses major challenges in the field of spatial and social planning. Therefore, the challenge of the urban regions is at the heart of the forthcoming municipal reform. However, until we put in place a municipal structure that is more adapted to today's and tomorrow's challenges, we need to create reciprocity and greater coherence in urban policy by bringing state, county and municipality together in negotiations and committing ourselves to pursuing common goals. It creates predictability locally. Regional coordination at the level is important for good solutions around the major cities. Good land policies are also good climate and environmental policies. We have a responsibility for land policy contributing to the transition towards a low-carbon society. I therefore want close cooperation with the Minister for Climate and Environment and the Minister for Transport in the future. Urban environment agreements shall contribute to the inclusion of the growth of passenger transport by collective, bicycle and gangways. It's an ambitious goal, but cities show way. In Oslo and Akershus, the number of people travelling collectively is increasing, and the growth in car traffic is stopping. It might look like something similar is happening in the other big cities. I would particularly like to congratulate my colleagues in Bergen. The latest survey shows that for the first time the number of car journeys has decreased from 2008 to 2013. In the same period, the collective share of urban railway areas has increased from 19 to 28 pst. The efforts of cities bear fruit. It is about good land policy, targeted investment in public transport, smart transport solutions and denseness. The state's job is to provide predictable, but not generous, funding for the most important collective actions in the big cities. I see particular need to strengthen cooperation in the four largest urban regions. As part of the government's work on urban environment agreements, we should ensure and facilitate good regional coordination between land use, housing and urban transport solutions. I believe that the planned cooperation between Oslo and Akershus will show that it is useful to coordinate land and transport planning. The urban regions must be linked and the state must contribute with funding. It is important for individuals, for the climate and for industry that the queues in the inland waterways are reduced. We need to have a value creation perspective on urban regions, where small and medium-sized cities are also important as educational centres and labour market centres in the regions. In the longer term, for example: intercity investment allows for balance and greater growth in several cities in the Central East. But it requires active action by cooperating municipalities along the transport axes of the future. We have therefore started a separate urban region programme to see how cities and municipalities around can work together to increase competitiveness. Whole 33 urban regions, and almost half of the country's municipalities, are in the first phase. Population growth has put pressure on the housing market in some key areas, and we need to increase development through better cooperation and faster processes. We need to simplify the technical building regulations in cooperation with the construction industry, reduce planning time, among other things. by limiting objections and facilitating more parallel treatment of planning and construction matters. Simplification shall not mean poorer quality. On the contrary, there must be a simpler way to achieve quality. Tightening in existing cities does not have to be at the expense of the qualities that make urban life attractive. In the new Ensjøstaden in Oslo, land planning and good public–private cooperation have ensured a good combination for the sake of congestion and climate adaptation. Cities have a lot of experience in implementing projects, which it is important to share. In the municipality of Bergen we contribute with funding, so that the municipality can go through a selection of dense projects along the city railway. These are evaluated against overall plans and leadership and the experience of local residents of quality. Comfortable and compact urban centres are a prerequisite for living center trading. We will support local initiatives and measures that can make it more attractive for commerce and services to establish themselves in the centre. Among other things, I have launched several investigation projects to promote a knowledge-based and forward-looking policy in this area. I believe that the municipalities themselves are best placed to design city and centre policies and put them into practice. At the same time, I see the need for some general principles in some areas, especially in issues that cross the municipal borders. The government has therefore chosen to maintain the current national policy provision for the location of purchasing centres, which in most counties is now replaced by regional plans. But we want to evaluate the rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1934	The representative, Mr Solhjell, addresses an important topic. Cities are growing, and we must ensure that this growth is sustainable. Sustainability links social, economic and environmental needs, as underlined by the Technical Council for Urban Policy. As Minister for Climate and Environment, I have a special responsibility to ensure that climate, environment and cultural memories are taken into account. This applies both in cities and elsewhere. These are also key elements of the coordination of spatial planning by the municipal and modernisation ministers. In cities, people and businesses are brought together and emissions and other environmental challenges are also brought together. Cities are therefore particularly important in climate and environmental work. They may be part of the problem, but are even more of a part of the solution. This is at the heart of my desire to realize the vision of the green city – the city where citizens can move easily by public transport, on foot and on bicycles, in historic, renewed and green urban spaces without contaminated air and noisy traffic. Today, 80 psts live. of the population of Norway in cities, and most of the population growth in the years to come will be in the largest urban areas. Population growth increases the burden on both public services, roads and urban areas. Cities represent a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions, especially from road traffic, and urban road traffic is also a major source of emissions of nitrogen dioxide and particulate matter. These emissions lead to local environmental problems through degradation of urban air quality and are currently a real health problem for several vulnerable groups in metropolitan areas. Correspondingly, this applies to noise. So the government's goal of taking all new urban passenger transport by public transport, bicycles or corridors is important in order to reduce emissions from road traffic. However, we also need to take action to improve local air quality in the short term. The Government has recently set up a working group to assess the relevant instruments, including low-emission zones and, where appropriate, other instruments. A number of measures for more environmentally friendly transport have been implemented in many municipalities. As noted by the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, recent figures show that traffic in Bergen has fallen in the last year. That's great. The same thing happens in other cities. Unfortunately, however, car traffic has increased in the areas around Bergen. This situation is not unique, but illustrates the need for well coordinated planning also at regional level. For example: Addressing this problem is now working to establish comprehensive urban environmental agreements between the state and the major cities. The aim is to reduce car traffic and increase the share of public transport, bicycles or walking. The aim of the agreements is to see the various instruments in the context of both spatial planning, the development of collective services and walking and cycling paths, and, where appropriate, restrictive measures, such as rush time charging and parking restrictions. Because it is an important principle for us that this should be decided by the municipalities themselves. A good collective offer helps to address a number of the challenges cities face. At the same time, we see that not everyone living in town can travel collectively, and then an electric car is a better alternative than fossil-powered passenger cars. Many cities have already invested in buses, garbage trucks and gas trucks, and if we can produce gas from sludge and organic waste, we will solve several environmental problems with one measure. Energy in construction is also an important element for energy efficiency improvement and greenhouse gas emission reduction, and today it is possible to build houses that produce more energy than they consume. By 2020 it will be prohibited to fire fossil oil. At the same time, we need to be careful to use the environmental resource contained in existing building mass for 80 pst. of today's building will be in use in 40 years' time, so improvements in existing building mass will be important in the future. If we tear down less and use the energy more efficiently, we'll reduce our emissions. As the responsible minister also for cultural memories, I would like to underline what the historic city means for well-being, identity and stability. In urban planning, we need to preserve the historic identity of cities through a balance between conservation and renewal, so that cultural memories also play an active role in the urban environment of the future. The growing need for land for transport, housing and industry places pressure on cultural memories, natural diversity and outdoor life. In order for the large proportion of the country’s urban population to be able to live well, cities must also be well equipped for recreation and leisure in the vicinity of their homes. The conservation of vegetation and of continuous blue and green areas are important for natural diversity. It gives us cleaner air and water and less noise. Opening streams and more green surfaces provide both greener and more pleasant urban environments and the handling of increasing amounts of rainwater, and there is good climate adaptation. Much of the climate adaptation work has to be done by local authorities, but we want to contribute from state teams with information and guidance. Land change is the greatest threat to natural diversity. Our cities must be built compactly, so that we do not build parks, green lungs, urban fields, river banks and other nature. In fact, increased urbanisation increases the need for seamlessly accessible green areas. Since we have a target of maximising participation in active outdoor activities, we are focusing in particular on measures that contribute to outdoor life in the community, and this means to a large extent that action is taken in cities. The STImuli project in Bodø I think is a good example of this. Here, the municipality works together with other actors to facilitate tours that will be up to 500 meters away from home. With the distance from where one lives, to where the path starts, we know that it increases the share of outdoor life. There are many aspects to our cities that are positive for climate and the environment. I am concerned that we take care of these. Close cities with short distances create less need for car transport and provide a better basis for public transport. We have to make some changes in some environmentally harmful habits, but I think everyone can agree that the green city, with fewer cars and fine green areas, is worth these changes. The Government shall pursue an active metropolitan policy. Our goal is to ensure good cities to live in, with good opportunities for outdoor life, clean air and the absence of noise. It's cities where cultural monuments are well preserved. It is cities that are well equipped to combat climate change and that have low emissions. It's my vision for the urban environment. This can be achieved through an overall approach to the choice of transport solutions, congestion and conservation of green areas. At least I let myself be inspired by cities like Freiburg and Copenhagen, where I have been studying in our spring. In both cities they have, among other things: offensively put in place to ensure good conditions for cyclists and to expand public transport. What is also exciting in a city like Freiburg, which has a rapporteur from the Greens, is that all the decisions for the development of that city have been as well as politically agreed on because the citizens expect this policy. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has just described his wishes for the cities. Together, we have an overall approach to the needs of cities to be good and environmentally friendly places to live and work in. The image may seem like a vision that is far ahead of time, but it doesn't have to be far away. It's both possible and necessary, and that's what we have to work against. Both the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation and I attended the National Council of the Right a little over a week ago. One of the topics discussed was urban policy. We both felt a strong commitment to this matter among the Right-elected trustees from all parts of the country. Green solutions were being found from below, and they were ready to make a local effort. So summed up: it's clear that we're facing major urban environmental challenges, but we also have a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e1978	I thank you for the two answers, which I would like to characterize as very interesting. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation said that I am talking a lot about increased government governance and little about urban politicians. He's quite right about that, and that's a very simple reason why I'm talking more about the national and less about the local: we're in the National Assembly. This is Norway's big deal. We run Norway's policies, and fortunately we have a lot of cities that govern their policies. My view is that we should have a national, superior policy, and state councils who come here to the Storting and answer an important question to say, no, we don't have any particular policy on it; there must be some others who are responsible for it, I tend to say, to drive out of responsibility. In such an important theme, I thought it was very disappointing to the right municipal minister to say that he would mainly let urban politicians operate on urban policy, and that what happens to good things would be a pleasure, and that one should have some, superior guidelines. On the other hand, it was far more positive to the right of the Minister for Climate and Environment, who had an offensive approach, and who called for an active urban policy. She went through a number of tools and has obviously spent time on the issue in the last six months. She said that they lead a whole-hearted policy together, and if one takes something very offensive and active and something more passive and defensive, it turns out to be a whole thing out of it. But it was a cracking healing that stood out here, I thought. Why should we have an active national approach? Well, because what's happening in our cities is part of the solution to big global challenges, where we can't just leave it to the individual city. Climate policy cannot be led by cities. It cannot even be run by Norway alone. We have a national responsibility. The nation of Norway must use parent control. The same applies to the question of the loss of natural disasters. The development challenges in terms of housing and transport, which our cities face, require the Norwegian nation to help and encourage us to solve the challenges out there. Someone might say that we're just going to use a positive tool and not control anything. It's an honest thing. Others say we have to have a combination of whips and carrots, because that's what research says that often works, for example. in transport policy. It's an honest debate, but it's disappointing to hear such a defensive approach. Even more incomprehensible is when you know that in some areas, this government will intervene very strongly: they have warned against coercion, if necessary, to merge municipalities in Norway. I look forward to an important debate on the urban reform, but it must at least be possible to find out that the global climate problem is perhaps one of the major problems of the Norwegian municipal structure. If that's the case, at least the willingness to use a little stronger tools must be present. I saw it at one council today, but not at the other. I look forward to a good debate on an important topic and hope that the municipal minister, who has it overseen responsibility here, will eventually also get a more active approach to a national urban policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2001	We can bring a little bit more temperature into the debate if that's desirable. I think it is interesting that a party that has been in government for eight years, where urban policy has been primarily about slowing down and stopping development, is trying to create a point that the new government has a passive urban policy – that is rather the opposite. We're committed to having an active urban policy, but there's a difference in substance between Bård Vegar Solhjell's approach and our approach: SV wants to be more detailed, while we want to show greater trust in city politicians. We want to give urban politicians greater space to find the right solutions. What I see in Bergen, in Stavanger, in Oslo and in other cities, is that they are just as concerned with climate and environmental issues as we are. Then our task is to play with the city politicians, who want to take environmental responsibility, and to facilitate good urban spaces and good collective solutions in the cities. And in fact, it is an important point that urban policy is also linked to the urban reform, because you need to provide 300,000 new citizens in Oslo and Akershus, it is clear that it is demanding – to say the least – with 22 municipalities, one city and three levels of government. I am concerned that we need better land and social planning, where we need to find the good, collective solutions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but then we also need to implement a community reform that will enable us to better address land and social planning in our area. Very many of the visions that Bård Vegar Solhjell draws up are visions that we share. The only question is whether we're going to sit down on our high horse and head of detail more, or whether we're going to play with the cities, thinking in the right direction. After the government change, I have cut through several issues that also concern cities, and that go on urban development, so that cities can build more homes in order to provide housing for both young and old, and to facilitate the development of nutrition. That's one of the problems we can do: we can do faster planning, and the state is not a brake on urban development, but rather we're playing with the cities. It is quite obvious that cooperation between the Minister for Climate and Environment, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Municipal Affairs and the Minister for Modernisation is important – not least in order to facilitate good infrastructure solutions, which can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2014	When the representative, Solhell, sends two almost similar interactions to two different state councils, he may also be looking to listen to a disagreement here. I guess we shouldn't be completely alien to that idea. But what I think we can agree on is what Solhjell said in the introduction: cities are going to grow, and greenhouse gas emissions are going down. I can also share the representative's views on all the ten bids he made in his post. It's also interesting what was mentioned from the city of Freiburg, that many of the changes there occur through almost unanimity in the city council. You can see the same thing in the drama with the right-hand rapporteur there. The changes in the Drammen – the important decisions – have been adopted almost unanimously because there is a great deal of interest in this. I believe to the extent that the representative is looking for a greater disagreement than this is. But there is a fundamental difference in the approach to this — the same objective, but different approach. When we discussed urban environment policy at the Right National Meeting, it was – as mentioned – 70 amendments to the resolution, and I take this as an expression that there is a great deal of commitment among our city and county politicians to be involved in this change, and that they really want to discuss this – locally and regionally – because they see that they can be part of the solution to the climate problem and not part of the problem. Our national policies are likely to be more effective than for the previous government to achieve good interaction between the state and cities in this area. I think it's only through this joint interaction that there can be agreement on what our goal is. We may have a slightly different political approach to what we focus on in this interaction, but we strongly agree that we must take on board the fact that Norway is now the country in Europe with the highest growth in cities. It probably requires that we think urban politics in a slightly different way than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2023	First, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Solhjell, very much for addressing these two conflicts, and for taking such a big initiative towards the Stortinget to discuss urban policy, especially against the environment – very well. Now it is – as many people have been in it – that metropolitan areas are experiencing strong population growth. I myself am from Trondheim and know how this development is now going. It confronts us with many challenges that we have to solve, but it also gives us a lot of opportunities. We know that climate challenges require a number of measures to be implemented by countries. We need to do things internationally — but also nationally and locally — to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In some of our big cities, we are struggling with air pollution, for example. in the city we're in now. We're going to take care of nature in and around the cities, and we're going to take care of the food soil. Then we have to pursue a city policy, both nationally and locally, which has this as a framework. Population growth will obviously lead to an increase in transport needs. It is also obvious that this increase cannot be taken up by increased car use. It has to be taken, as many have been involved, by means of collective transport, bicycles and bicycles – or jogs, as the representative Jan Bøhler uses to say, but we others are largely on the same footing. In any case, if we are to get this done, the development of housing and jobs must be done by fastening, and it is not always uncontroversial. There may be major conflicts, for example: the construction of heights, and there may be major conflicts related to the areas on which they are based, such as: food soil. I come from Trondheim and I'm familiar with that kind of problem, and it's not easy at all. I believe that there is a need to strengthen the centre areas and have good collective nodes. I've lived in cities all my life. I do not have a certificate and have, of course, not been driving a car. I am therefore very aware of the need for it to be possible to live in a city without a car, that instead we should be able to take the tram, the bus, the bike or the legs. That our cities work within transport, something the whole country is served. In many places, good things are done. I notice that state council Sanner is pulling out Bergen and other right-wing cities, and then I want to mention that in Trondheim passenger car traffic is going down sharply and public transport is going up, so there are also other cities that are doing great things. But then to the discussion about state: I believe that the state should take a considerable responsibility and ensure that public transport is lifted, and then the municipalities must plan for housing and jobs to be provided for sensible transport. Today, I think that too few homes are built with this idea in mind, and it's worrying about how urban development is going to be, and not least about what environmental impact it has. The Department of Sustainable Urban Policy, which handed over its final report before Christmas, provides a number of good advice and offers many suggestions for action. The chapter on urban planning advises that the State should take more responsibility – not less – and exercise more governance in the urban regions. They write, among other things, the rational and sustainable coordination of land and transport policies from a socio-economic point of view, the fact that there should be a task for the State, and they propose the establishment of a regional governance body for this purpose. I think these are exciting thoughts. My view is that there is clearly a need for better cooperation between management levels than today, and there is clearly a need for better coordination between municipalities around the big cities. I think most people in this room are familiar with conflicts between municipalities and neighbouring municipalities with the use of objections, disagreements about where central functions should lie, and how things should be organised. These are factors that can delay important decisions and which ultimately go beyond the population. I therefore believe it is essential that municipalities coordinate and think coherently and environmentally friendly in land planning, when planning housing and industrial areas, and when organising good transport solutions. I think it is an incredibly exciting topic that is on the agenda here today. I look forward to the rest of the debate, and I think we should discuss urban policy in the future. I once again thank the representative, Mr Solhjell, for taking this initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2044	I have been one of these city politicians who the Council of State Jan Tore Sanner pulled out in his post, so it is with great pleasure I listen to his words today, for they need more trust, and it is those who are going to lead the cities forward. That's why I also very much appreciate the opportunity to discuss something as important as urban policy here in Stortinget today. I myself come from a city region that is experiencing great growing pain. In the Stavanger region, we are very happy that we now have a government that sees the challenges of cities, but also opportunities. I am therefore very pleased with the government's municipal reform, and because we have heard today a climate and environment minister who is promoting the important role of cities in combating climate change and helping Norway achieve its climate goals. This is a new and clear direction after the eight years of red-green government. Cities account for two thirds of the world's energy consumption. Cities are the center of industry and economic activity, making them major consumers of energy. They generate a lot of waste and are home to the majority of the world's population. It's the cities that have to be at the center of the green shift. If we're going to be able to limit climate change, cities have to be involved. The trend of urbanisation and fortification will only continue in the future. It is therefore essential that we are far-sighted enough to prepare for a future with even bigger cities – already today. Two weeks ago, the Right held its national meeting. Never before has the Right National Meeting been so green. We adopted a new offensive policy on climate and the environment and a separate resolution aimed at this work in cities. After eight years of red-green government, we finally got a government that will talk again about Norway's cities. Climate and environmental policies are, of course, both urban and rural, but there is no doubt that climate-conscious urban policies will be crucial to reducing our national emissions. The right joined the campaign last year with great promises of a new, strengthened city policy. One of the most important promises was a great commitment to public transport. For large public transport solutions in metropolitan areas, the State shall cover 50 pst. of the investment costs. This promise was repeated at the National Meeting of the Right. Getting people over from private cars to bicycles, corridors or collectives is one of the most effective measures to reduce local emissions. Selecting public transport therefore has to be simpler and more comfortable than the car, and you have to get there faster. Developing a high-ranking collective system in our big cities is therefore very important. At the same time, collective solutions should have a low or zero emission standard. This should therefore be a requirement for the purchase of new buses and scheduled boats. In order to facilitate this, it is therefore necessary for the country to continue the tax exemption for environmentally friendly fuels by 2020. At the same time, we have to be better off planning a comprehensive urban development that facilitates people walking or cycling as much as possible. We have to build closer and along the collective axes. In the most environmentally aware metropolitan area, both industry, housing and leisure are in the immediate vicinity. You can share the car with others, because you rarely need it. This must be a goal for how we think urban development. All emissions are local emissions. The job done in cities is therefore the most important to reduce emissions. Oslo is a so-called C40 city. C40 is a community of large cities around the world that together have undertaken to work actively to reduce their emissions. Oslo is a good example of Higher Environmental Policy in practice. Concrete instruments, together with the polluter-pays principle and the use of the market to trigger green choices, have worked. Now the Right is ready to pursue this policy at national level, and we have several concrete proposals. For example: we will phase out fossil oil firing for heating in municipal and county buildings by 2018. Entrepreneurship-related public nodes should be part of urban environmental agreements. The passive house standard should be used for all new municipal and county buildings from 2015. And we should bet more on bicycles by facilitating parking, prioritizing the cycling network and introducing a reward scheme for walking and cycling routes. It's the cities that have to lead in the green revolution. I am therefore pleased that we have a government that puts urban policy on the agenda and has great ambitions for more environmentally friendly urban policies. Blue policy provides a green urban environment. It's one of the most important things we can do to achieve our climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2070	I want to thank the interpellant for two interesting interpellations. As described, the Norwegian population will increase strongly in the years to come. It should be appreciated by every country in and around, but it creates some challenges, perhaps especially with regard to urban policy in the future. In urban policy, we must take account of very many needs. The key to thinking about this is well-coordinated planning. Urban planning and long-term land policy will be an important key to the success of future urban policies. There will be a need for cooperation between municipalities and across administrative levels. It becomes absolutely essential that you can think in a coordinated and long-term way. I am a little surprised that the Council of State for Planning in the debate is trying to add up to a contrast between state and local authorities. I think it's going to be absolutely necessary that both levels of government cooperate well. There is no contradiction to this that we are discussing what is the responsibility of the state. There is no doubt that, in the future, urban environments will demand that we plan for cities where more dense and perhaps higher, in order to meet the need for housing generated by population growth. My vision is that we get compact, vibrant city centres in the years to come. I think that the efficient use of the land needs to be done, especially in terms of the collective nodes. These hubs need to facilitate efficient transport and construction of more dwellings, premises for shops and other services, and demands must be made on how walking and cyclists should get back and forth. Overall, public transport is one of the pillars of a future, environmentally friendly urban policy – not just because of emissions, but simply because there will be no room for all the vehicles if each of us is to rely on car use. Therefore, the cities of the future must be based on public transport, walking and cycling. In this area, it also needs a whole set of instruments. Then I am a little surprised when the municipal minister stands here and says that the red-green government has slowed down urban policy. One of the main measures pointed out by the Minister for Climate Change is precisely the urban environment agreements adopted by the red-green government in connection with the National Transport Plan last June. They're going to be important to develop cities in a transport context. I think it's a little bad that the Right has set a ceiling of 50 pst. for grants to urban collective actions, because there may be individual measures in cities that would require more than 50 pst. State contribution. The growing cities are also going to put pressure on the areas around the cities. But that's not where the solution lies. It does not consist of eating outside on cultivated land or in open air areas. They're not free space that can be used to expand cities, which you sometimes get the impression. These are valuable areas that are important for the use of food production and outdoor life and are essential for the preservation of biodiversity. The government has shown a line here that is a little alarming – a slightly different policy than that of the red-green government, where food soils have to give way to expansion. This gives rise to strong reactions, and is among the challenges and problems we should face in the years to come. In a debate on urban policy, I also think it is natural to mention the importance of district policy, including for cities. The flow of migration to cities is strong, but many also want a life outside the city. Without the Norwegian district policy, the lack of space in Norwegian cities would have been greater than it is today. Freedom of choice to live where you want, and to expect to have the opportunity to work, school and welfare services everywhere, where people want to live, is also important and an advantage for those who choose to live in the city. Those living outside cities often belong to a labour market region that extends into the city. It is also important to think about future cities and urban development. It is particularly important in the case of transport links. Commuters also help to reduce urban pressures, and it is one of the reasons why it is absolutely essential that railway investment continues to be heavily concentrated on rapid and continuous development. Airport parking outside cities is also an important measure in this context. A good and long-term urban policy best meets several objectives. Walking or cycling is good for people. Taking care of land and land provides more food production and living nature. Lower emissions are a condition for achieving climate targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2097	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the interpellant and this discussion on an important topic. 50 pst. the population of the world today lives in cities. It is clear that cities are also an important factor in addressing the major climate challenges we face. Taking advantage of the dynamics and creativity of cities, they can take responsibility for the major environmental and climate challenges, but also that they can be just the growth regions and growth centres around them. I also have a lot of experience in running politics in town. I noticed that the representative Tina Bru presented Oslo as an example of Higher Environmental Policy. I know well how these processes have been over the last few years, and I take it as an expression that everyone wants to be part of a success. It also promises well for the work to be done at national level in the years ahead. The most obvious and most important state does, of course, is to take responsibility for its own land policy. When you place state institutions, hospitals and other things, it has to be placed in relation to and in relation to cities, and not as we see examples of hospitalization and the need to build the T-roadway afterwards to get to them. That's not the right and effective way to do this. It's clear that a lot of cities feel that the state level meets them in many ways. Whether it be state-owned property companies, health companies or others, the country needs to coordinate its own positions much more than they do today. In terms of ensuring dense and good urban development, the main task of the state is to ensure that good collective transport solutions are provided. First of all, it must be invested on the railway. We've got to connect the cities better. We have to do it in Scandinavia in the long term and in Norway, as it is now. After all, the cities of Norway are well-received. There are good opportunities to make good collective offers, but then the state has to put in the necessary investment on the railway to get it done. Then the state must have an active role in cities in developing their collective system, and one is the urban environment packages. But with regard to the major infrastructure projects, this is not just a city's business. It is also a national, strategic issue – as in Oslo in connection with the construction of Fornebubanen, which is building the urban railway in Bergen. In the opinion of the Left, the government should now apply pressure to build and facilitate an urban railway in Stavanger. It will be impossible to keep that urban region with a good enough collective system without building an urban railway. This is a decision that will have meaning for decades after decades to come. As far as the priorities are concerned, it shall be built in order to be able to walk and cycle, travel collectively and for a zero-emission vehicle. On the environment side, much of the country's policy must be to delegate more power to cities. There are many projects and a lot of will that stop because the legislation is not well adapted. The possibility for cities to establish their own environmental zones in order to provide environmentally friendly transport must be considered. It's so simple that some cities don't have a sign authority. It would be a simple contribution to make it easier to make good bike solutions. It must be such that a county or city such as the licensing authority must be able to impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry. That's how you can take area by area. There are areas where the state can play with local authorities that have more than enough will. Very often, the level of ambition of cities is higher than that of the state itself. So housing: the house bank has to play a more active role, so that we can get more student homes, but also so that we can manage to build the best projects in areas of the city where the market will not build the best projects itself. Here we must have a policy where local authorities play along with the state. In the end, I think we got a good illustration of this – and a reminder – that streets, places and squares are the nation's most important democratic arena. It has a very important role in society. But then it's also important that everyone has access to this arena. For me it is incomprehensible that sitting still with a cup in front of me should not be the law of the public room in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2120	Norway is in a strong growth period, and this will be the case for at least the next 16 years. I really don't think this is any tsunami going over. It's actually a growth of 1.2 pst. per year, and we may have to live with in the years ahead. It gives us great opportunities, but also some challenges. Now the statistics show that growth has been stable for a long time. In the last 20 years it has been particularly large in Akershus, Oslo and Rogaland, with 34 pst, respectively, 32.8 pst. and 31 pst. What we're experiencing isn't a big percentage growth. It's more of an effect of the law of the great numbers. There is therefore no reason to believe that the growth in the population will not continue for many years to come. The challenges we face are more about being able to address them and help municipalities and counties meet population growth in a sustainable way. In this context, it is also important to underline the importance of being in the forefront. If we look at Oslo City, in the historical perspective, it clearly has this. The T-course and the collective offer were in place at the same time as the population moved in. The city's economy allowed it. Even today, the city is able to coordinate urban development and public transport with good results, and Oslo is, when true, alone at the top in terms of the proportion of collective travel. I would say that it is not as easy to lie in front of developments today. Especially all the new growth municipalities are struggling with this. Even if 3 pst. growth in a municipality such as Sørum is not many people per year, the municipality has challenges that it is struggling with daily. In this context, I must commend the government for taking a strong hold on the growth communities by fivefolding the growth grant. I would also like to pay tribute to the government for the state's income system. The county councils are currently spending a greater share of money on public transport by bus and rail than the cost key added. This particularly affects the counties with high bus and track costs. Regional land and transport plans are important instruments for coordinating policies currently at two different levels of administration. Land policy is probably what engages the most local politicians, but it is not always as easy to present national and regional considerations when building and landownering banks on the door to promote their affairs. In addition, transport-efficient collective solutions are not high on the agenda. I am convinced that larger and more robust municipalities around the big cities need to be given greater responsibility for public transport. Taking up the growth of transport collectively is a very big challenge. I don't think we can do it by expanding public transport alone. We also need to reduce transport needs. There are several measures involved here. Coordination of land and transport planning can reduce transport needs. This will make it easier to make it easier for bikes and times. By building jobs and housing related to the public nodes, it will be possible to provide public transport with high capacity and high frequency. Secondly, the collective offer can be expanded so that it becomes competitive compared to the car. It will require capacity, high frequency, punctuality and regularity. Should the train and bus compete out of the private car, the availability of the bus and train must be so good that they hit the car in time with good margin. Thirdly, increased State involvement in the construction and operation of public transport. Here it is worth noting that the Right Party Government shows the willingness to enter into agreements with the municipalities and counties, where the State commits itself. The commitment of 50-50 grants to heavy infrastructure in the four largest cities is a good grip. Finally, I would like to address the thread on which the representative Elvestuen was also concerned, namely the importance of seeing the location of jobs and housing in relation to collective nodes in urban centres. The country’s location of its own major institutions, such as hospitals, must also be seen in the context of existing spatial and transport planning policies. This is where the state can be much better. The good example is the Rikshospitalet, where the trick solution was part of the hospital project. At the other end of the scale, we have Aarhus, where a gigantic car park was built, and responsibility for all public transport was left to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2137	I thank you for a reflected debate, or almost a conversation, with many good articles, for example. This is the very last. And the slight passing of temperature I tried to create did not last long. But there's a predatory debate afterwards, so I think there'll be a little bit more speed in the matter. So I want to say that I am happy that the councils -- I perceive in many ways that they both said that -- share many of the visions that I presented through ten bods, and I share many of the visions that they went through. It was known material -- to say it like that -- part of what they said. The Minister for Climate and Environment said it quite the way I would have said it myself. Where urban policies have been implemented, whether national or local, and where major things happen, there is often broad consensus. There may be different politicians – sometimes from the left and sometimes from the right or the centre – who are at the forefront of it. But what I experience as fundamental is that it doesn't happen by itself. The tough transitions that Drammen and other cities have undergone have met with resistance. That's also going to be at the national level at the time we go into it now. If we are to make the transformation in our cities that many people in the debate have called for when it concerns land use and climate friendliness, it will meet with resistance. Often, then, there is a conflict, I seemed to notice, which goes on to what extent you are willing to use some government tools and have an active, superior policy – and perhaps also on what types of tool. What's positive, I think, is that in many areas we see that it's going to take more control. The urban environment agreements, as Arnstad's representative said quite correctly, are a mixture of spending more money, but also make tougher demands for results – sensible governance that I have registered that the new government will follow up. It is also true, as the representative Hansen said, that the professional council is in fact in full agreement on the direction of clearer state governance – not detail management, but more governance in a superior direction by means of incentives – everything from what was rightly taken up here about the state's own location, for more use of instruments, such as: land policy vis-à-vis the cities. That's what I thought the government would take with me. When it comes to municipalities, we have come to realize that there is a need for a community reform, that there is a need to do something. One may have different views on this, but one must have respect for the power of the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation so far in this work – and the will to put power behind the demands here. I would like to see something of the same when it comes to challenges such as housing, transport, land and – the underlying problem – greenhouse gas emissions. I think that would be necessary, in combination with what is triggered around Norwegian cities. I would like to thank you for a good debate and for a good response from the Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2152	I also want to start by thanking you for what I see as a good dialogue on urban policy. It is important for both small and large cities, and it is important for us to be able to deal with many of the major challenges. When we know that many of the cities and urban areas are going to grow up to 30 pst. over the next 16 years, it is quite clear that we are facing challenges that need to be addressed in cooperation between municipalities and the state. I am very concerned that urban policy must also be about urban areas, that we do not create a contrast between the city and the region around, between the city and the district, but that we are increasingly talking about urban areas and looking at how we can achieve a good interaction between the city and the area around. I agree with the representative, Solhjell, that this does not happen by itself. Very often I have experienced city politicians who say that it is the state that slows them down in the solutions they think are good for the city and for urban development. I want us to get into a phase where the state and the municipality play together to find the good solutions. We see that a lot of city politicians – whether they come from the Left, from the Right, from the SV or from other parties – are engaged in creating good urban spaces and finding the good environmental solutions. Then we have to play with the cities. It is quite right that land policy and public transport are key points in this development. It has been a challenge for municipalities/city and state to be unable to find parallel solutions. The infrastructure solution, the collective solution, must be expected – year after year – to be provided for housing and working space. Urban environment agreements can be one instrument. We are concerned that it is not only the state that makes demands on cities and municipalities, but also municipalities and cities can make demands on the state when it comes to the provision of housing and large commercial areas. I look forward to many good discussions and dialogue on urban policy in the years to come. Clearly, the state has an important responsibility. We're supposed to be the city's co-player – not slowing down the city's own positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2165	I assume that the representative Solhjell manages even a little more praise. I would also like to thank the representative for putting urban and urban environment policy on the agenda. I think it's particularly important that we discuss this a lot in the future. As I said in my previous post, Norway is now the country of Europe that has the largest growth in cities. It requires that we think of urban environment policies in a slightly different way than before. Today, TNS Gallup presented this that young people's climate awareness is on the way up. Young people have great expectations that more attention will be paid to public transport. It's also interesting that we now see that some young people in the cities just don't take certificates anymore. They depend entirely on public transport. This may also be an expression of the urbanisation that we now see in Norway, which has marked a change in recent years. Therefore, urban environmental agreements are very important – to see land policy and transport policy in a close context with public transport. But there's a slight distinction in how we're going to put it into the negotiations with the municipalities. For us, the result is the most important thing. I think some municipalities felt that under the previous government there was a certain dictation as to which instruments were to be used. We are in complete agreement with the aim. I feel that there is a broad consensus here that we need a good urban and urban environment policy, and that we need good discussions in the future. I also think it is important to take the conversation we have had today, into the discussion on the Municipal Reform. The work on getting larger municipalities can be one of the important means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. There is an inconceivable close link between land policy and transport policy in order to reduce transport needs, which we are totally dependent on in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2174	Case No. So 5 and 6 are done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2188	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to the main speakers from each group and five replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2197	Managing predators as part of our nature while at the same time having an active agricultural policy – that people have to live with animals – is not easy. It is therefore the Storting on several occasions and over many years has had major discussions in which the parties have gone a long way to agree on how best to take different considerations into account. In recent times – if I can call it that – we got a rapture settlement in 2004 and then a new deal, which was adopted in 2011. In the post-2011 period, there has been – and is – a discussion on the follow-up to this agreement. The majority has been given a proposal for a representative – promoted by several representatives from the Central Party – which deals with the settlement and which we are going to deal with here today. During the examination of the case, the Committee has received a number of input from organisations, individuals and others who are very concerned with the management of wild game. It shows that there is a great deal of commitment around these questions. First, I would like to point out that all the parts of the Stortinget in the setting refer to the 2011 anti-tank game agreement, when it was established: ‘Norwegian wild game management shall take place within the framework of the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act. [[...]] Furthermore, it is suggested that the robberies agreement took into account the following: ‘All predatory management shall be based on scientific and experience-based knowledge. Furthermore, emphasis shall be placed on regional governance, respect for ownership and the quality of life of individuals and local communities.’.» So that's a lot of consideration. The draft representative proposes eight points, one of which has a whole range of five sub-points. In the vote, a total of nine motions have been put forward – all from the centre party. The majority of the Committee – all except the Centre Party – believe that many of these proposals will be able to reopen parts of the Robbery Agreement. The various parties have probably assessed the various proposals differently, but the majority view is that they want to hold the consensus reached in 2011 and not rock it. Having said that, I would say that many representatives, including myself, certainly have sympathy for many of the issues raised by the Central Party, regardless of what you think about the concrete proposals. The management of predators is difficult – there is no doubt – and there is a clear expectation that the government will follow up the conciliation. The Minister for Climate and Environment writes to the Committee that there is a challenge in the management of certain predatory species that the set quotas are not being withdrawn and that there is a need to improve the efficiency of the extraction. At the same time, she writes that the gap between the quota set and the actual quota will be related to the realistic nature of the hunting quotas set. In individual administrative regions, high quotas are set without reflecting the actual presence of animals in the areas. This hears everyone is a bit of arduous matter and anything but anti-conflict. It just sounds confusing. With regard to the concrete proposals that are being promoted, I would like to comment on a few of them briefly. We can then come back to several of them during the debate. There is a proposal to extend the licence hunting period for bear and yerv. The majority of the Committee considers that this was clarified in the robberies agreement and is in line with that agreement. This will promote a number of proposals for measures to facilitate better and more effective licensing and quota hunting. A few of these proposals believe that the majority of the Committee can be looked at, for example: to look at the results of the studies conducted to look at the use of different breeds of dogs during simulated hunting on bears. There's a lot of people in this country who know what's going on, there's a lot of people who know what's going on. It concerns priority grazing areas and the removal of animals that cause damage. Here is the word ‘damage potential’ and the understanding of that word for discussion, and we are sure to get it here today. The Minister for Climate and Environment writes to the Committee that she, together with the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has taken the initiative to clarify that concept, and I think everyone in the UK has noticed that. It is difficult to design and manage predatory policies. I am pleased that the Centre Party has taken the initiative to get a discussion here today, and I look forward to an exciting and constructive discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2231	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2234	According to the robberies agreement, points 2.2.10 and 2.2.12 licensing is the main instrument for regulating the stock of yorks and bears. There is no explanation in the predatory game agreement that when allowances are set by the Environment Directorate or the predatory game subjects, only 30 pst. out of allowances. The working party has also been very concerned about it in the past. In the questionnaire just a few weeks ago, the Labour Party showed great care for those who feel the conflicts between domestic animals and predators, and the Labour Party asked the climate minister why no more of the quota was withdrawn. My question to the Labour Party is: why can't the Labour Party vote in favour of a proposal that a person should actually be able to take out the quotas for the hunting of bears and herds that are set up by the Environment Directorate or by the predators?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2241	I thank the representative Arnstad for the question. It's a demanding field we're in here with regard to this administration. Licensing is demanding, and it is true that there was a discussion in the Questionnaire about it. What is the starting point of the Workers' Party is that we believe that the government should ensure that the administration follows the intentions of the Robbery Agreement. So it's quite obvious that if those intentions are not followed up, you have to get a round about it. Then the Storting may choose to take its own initiative towards the government or take an independent initiative to adjust any provisions of the Robbery Agreement, but then you have to reopen the entire dance, and we are sceptical about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2246	I react a little to the fact that the representative here says that one reopens the entire ballet. According to today's prey settlement, licensing agreements and quotas on licence hunting are the main instrument for regulating the stock of yorks and bears. In winter it was taken out below 30 pst. by the allowance on yours, and it was taken out 30 pst. of the allowance on bear. Is 30 pst. of the satisfactory fulfilment of the settlement and intentions set out in points 2.2.10 and 2.2.12 as the employee party representative sees it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2251	I assume that the representative Marit Arnstad records that only the Central Party is in favour of the proposals that are being discussed here today. That means that there is a majority in the Storting that agrees on how to look at the predatory settlement. I wonder: is it the Central Party that stands on the side of the Robbery Agreement when there is such a large majority not to go into these proposals, precisely because it is believed that the administration has the responsibility to follow up the conciliation? The government also has the responsibility to follow up the conciliation, as well as of course having discussions in Stortingen, but it is important that we do not open up an agreement that has been in place since 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2256	The debate initiated by the proposal of the Central Party is about whether quotas should be filled, i.e. whether or not all the animals for which the killing has been authorised are to be shot. The working party, in its comments, has expressed itself a little bit in both directions. On the one hand, it has been said that there is a problem that the quotas are not being filled, on the other hand, the proposal of the Centre Party has not been supported. Is the Workers' Party's view that enough predators are being fired, or is the Workers' Party's view that more predators should be shot?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2261	The answer to that is that we relate to the stock targets. It is quite right that in some areas more of the quotas should have been taken out, but at the same time in some areas quotas have been set which are unrealistic. It's really hard issues we're facing, and it's quite right that the representative Rasmus Hansson says that it seems like you're being dragged in both directions. It is precisely the issues that lie within this administration and which it is important for the government to follow up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2266	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2270	In 2011, a settlement was concluded at Stortinget. This agreement was so difficult to get through politically that the debates were concluded by the parliamentary leaders. All parties, with the exception of the Greens/Greens/EFA, which did not have their seats in 2011, finally voted unanimously behind the decision. The 2004 agreement was also the principle and framework of the proposal. Today, we are going to debate a Central Party document 8 proposal which, in some cases, puts the consensus from then on. Robbery policy is not easy. There's a lot of consideration to take. A few months ago, representatives from the Right were on tour in Hedmark and got to talk to several people who are engaged in the field. We have also had meetings with sole proprietors from elsewhere in Norway, last week, with representatives from Sogn and Fjordane. They tell us about major losses, uncertainty about continuing business and a struggle to get the quotas out. On the other hand, all representatives have received an e-mail in the last few days asking for a response as to whether we will contribute to the survival of our large predators. In this landscape, management and predatory animals shall operate and make wise decisions, based on different interests and the two reconciliations concluded. In this case, the right has chosen to go along with a broad majority of our comments, and we also support the majority's treatment. The reasons for this are several. Firstly, we think it is important to hold a settlement on these issues, and secondly, there have been several improvements in predatory policy with a new government and a climate and environment minister from the Right. As of 1 May, the ministry has tried predators in only 1 out of 16 cases. I think the right number per day is 1 in 18 cases, in line with the agreement's goal of strengthening regional government. This is a marked improvement in the confidence ratio against the predators set up earlier this year. Furthermore, the management of procedural deadlines for applications and complaints has been required to apply from 1 January 2014, also in line with the conduct of the settlement. The government has also chosen not to appeal the so-called Krokann judgment, which dealt with the basis for compensation for the loss of grazing animals. It makes the judgment stand still and is the leader of the administration. In the 2011 agreement, the wolf population was also a theme, where it was to be negotiated with Sweden on the distribution of the cross-border flocks, with a distribution factor of 0,5. There are few things that are more difficult to explain to the population than the fact that wolves who live in Norway do not count in the Norwegian population target, but are included in the Swedish population. These negotiations were due to be concluded in 2013, but the EU considers that the Swedish administration is in line with the Arts and Habitats Directive, and in this context, the Council of State has taken an initiative to present a case to the Stortinget, regardless of the negotiations with Sweden. This I know is well received in the parts of the country I come from. Wolves are as bad to see borders on land as Heide-Steen's Russian submarine captain was to see them underwater. Thus, the size is being addressed to new stocking targets for wolves, an evaluation of the wolf zone and changes in livestock compensation rules, and not enough with this, the Council of State also warns in its replies to the Committee that it will review the concept of ‘injury potential’. In point 2.2.19 of the Agreement: ‘It shall not be predators representing a potential for damage in priority pastures for domestic animals and the calving area of domestic animals.’ Few points in the agreement have created more debate than exactly this formulation. Getting a more precise and hopefully agreed definition in cooperation with the Minister of Agriculture and Food is a very sensible approximation of the Council of State. The agreement on predators is about a two-part goal with both grazing animals on the pasture and ensuring the survival of the large predators in line with our obligations. In other words, it is a matter of balancing on a very narrow road without falling into either ditch or ditch. So far, I think the Council of State has made a good figure as a balance artist.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2292	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2295	‘Rovviltpolitik is a highly topical topic. The level of conflict has escalated to a destructive level in recent years and the grazing industry is uncertain – the same is true of local politicians who know that the good intentions and leadership of the cross-politically adopted predatory settlement have been too little followed up.’ This isn't a Central Party quote. This is from an article by e.g. President Olemic Thommess on 13 May of this year. And I totally agree with the Grand President. One of the intentions not followed up is the license hunt. Just about 30 pst. by the quotas on yours and bear were taken out in winter. Why will the Right not contribute to the fulfilment of licence hunting quotas? Or is it that one does not mean serious about the quotas that each harvest is set for the withdrawal of youw and bear?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2305	I thank you for the question. The entire predatory policy is a very complicated matter. It's quite right, as Arnstad's representative says, that licensing should be the main goal of controlling the stock. What the right has said all along is that we want to follow up and stand at the predatory settlement from 2011. It's an important principle. Like all other parties, we've had national meetings. In most parties – I’m not sure whether it’s the Arnstad Party, the Center Party – the hall is largely divided into two. This makes balancing predatory policies perhaps one of the most important things we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2314	I thank you for that answer. I have to say, I think it is a quite striking lack of willingness to go in at all and look at the proposals that come from the Central Party. It's almost an attempt to demonize us as a party. But then the representative, like the prime minister, says that the licence quotas and the fact that one does not take out the quotas are a problem. Then my question remains: what's the right one going to do to help get a greater share of the licence allowances on you and bear actually being taken out? 30 pst. is far too low. Or is it that one here is not serious and instead throws blues in the eyes of people by setting quotas that are too high in relation to what a real one is going to take out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2323	Now it's mostly predators who put quotas on the license hunt, and it's the predators who follow it up. I really just want to say something of the same thing that I did in my previous answer, that it is the administration that is responsible for carrying out predatory policies in the daily life. It's the predators who have the meetings. I've been in a predatory subject for six years – I know the issues. It is important that we in the Storting follow up the predatory settlement as best we can. It is the predatory settlement that is the basis of the Storting Animal Policy — the predatory policy to be pursued by the administration and predatory subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2330	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2333	From an objective point of view, the proposal of the Central Party on measures to comply with the agreement on predators, adopted by the previous Storting, is an attempt to counter the whole agreement on predators. This Center Party accepted in position, while the opposition wants to create the impression that we care about our challenges in the management of our major predatory species of yerv, bear wolf and globe, but perhaps not least want to take care of the interests of grazing industry in Norway. I fully understand that the Central Party wants to promote the matter, but whether this is a rematch with our government, or whether it is an expression that the Central Party shows distrust of SV, who has run the Ministry of the Environment for eight years, you might wonder. I learned that the centre party in the position was never heard and was run over by SV, who almost wanted predators to welcome completely regardless of whether it would harm the grazing industry or not. But the rest of the big business cannot take responsibility for the Central Party in its time choosing SV as its nearest partner in government. On the other hand, by entering into a settlement, the settlement must have enough time to be implemented and realised. In this way, today’s government probably has a more pragmatic way of doing this than the previous government with the Swedish State Council. Settlements and agreements should be respected – not least in areas such as conflict. I refer to the letter from the Council of State, where she stresses that the Environment Directorate is continuously assessing the need for exceptional withdrawals and that there are today exceptional withdrawals from you. I also refer to the response from the Council of State, which in the letter to the Committee underlines and acknowledges that there are challenges in the management of certain predators, that the set quotas are not being withdrawn, and that there is a need to improve the efficiency of the withdrawals, so that the objective of the predatory agreement on quota withdrawals can be achieved as far as it is realistic. I also refer to the response of the Minister of Agriculture to the conflict mitigation measures in those regions which have a high level of conflict related to grazing animals and predators. Therefore, the government has already notified a case of a new Norwegian stock target for wolf, where border stocks are included – fully in accordance with the predatory agreement – as a separate case for the evaluation of the wolf zone. As we see, there is a great deal of understanding in the government for several of the proposals of the Senter Party. But it is also a fact that parts of the proposal for the Central Party will weaken our predatory populations to a level that is not foreseen in the predatory settlement. Unlike parts of the Center Party, I don't want a Norway without our four major predatory species. Of course it has a price. It can reduce my or the neighbour's mobility in nature, and it can undoubtedly harm the grazing animal industries. Therefore, it is incredibly important to put in place an effective regime, where there is a short way between the damage done and the harvesting of predators. Finally, we must never again end up in situations like those in the Salt Valley in Northern Ireland, where a perch took care of sheep. The local Wilderness sought to trap the bear by means of dogs, but got a reply that dogs could not be used, as it was a bandwagon! Such situations nobody in this room wants to experience again. And if we look at how a grazing animal diet will have to act on such overtramps in relation to its own herb stock, it's just totally tragic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2355	This was, in fact, new tones from the Advancement Party. In the Center Party, we don't assume what was the red-green government. We're starting from the winter's yurt and bear hunt. It ended on February 15th this year. That's when the Progress Party was in government. I understand that the representative is now concerned that we must not weaken predatory populations to a level that is not sustainable. The stock of Jerves is already well above the agreed stock target this year. According to Rovdata, this year 42 young people have been registered. The target in the predatory game deal is 39. During the winter's license hunt for yews, 37 animals were taken out of a quota of 145. It seems to the Progress Party that with an output of 30 p.m. of the quota on yerv has a fulfilment of the intention of the predatory game agreement that licence hunting should be the main instrument for regulating the stock of yerv?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2360	I fully agree with Arnstad that licence and quota hunting is the most important means of extraction we have. There's no doubt about it. That's also what's in the predatory agreement, but we also have to take over and see that it's Robbery data that has the overall responsibility for the operation of the surveillance program for predatory game and the estimation of the number of animals caught and taken out, among other things. Breeding bear. It's a work that's already in progress, and results that can be used related to licenses and allowances will come, but we can't get it in place overnight. It's before it comes, the better it is. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2368	The case we are dealing with today shows that the predatory settlement we made in 2011 is robust and stands by changing governments and majority. I'm glad. At the same time, it is important that we take on board the experience gained in the process, and the committee's consideration of this matter has thus been important. The Christian People's Party does not want to reopen parts of the conciliation for rematch. We are on the verge of 2011 and the principles of the 2004 decisions. The key element of the 2011 agreement is the principle of the two-part objective following the 2004 rapprochement. It implies that the objective of ensuring the survival of all the major predatory game species in Norwegian nature must be combined with an administration which, in total, helps to mitigate conflicts and counter insecurity. It is not difficult to admit that the two-part objective underpinning the conciliation is demanding. I understand the despair of both agriculture and the reindeer industry over attacks on grazing animals from predators. We have to take it seriously. Therefore, it is essential for the Christian People's Party to strengthen confidence in predator management, among other things. by effectively extracting harmful predators and by ensuring that the populations do not grow beyond the established stock targets. It's the challenge that the set quotas on you and the bear are not being taken out. Therefore, we are pleased that the Council of State also signals the need to streamline the withdrawal process, so that the quota withdrawal objective is achieved as far as it is realistic. We are also positive that new instruments are being opened up to contribute to the success of damaging motivated killing more than at present, thus preventing predators from killing grazing animals. At the same time, it is essential that this be done within an ethically sound framework. I would also like to mention that we are pleased that the Minister for Climate and Environment, together with the Minister for Agriculture, will now clarify what lies in the concept of 'damage potential' of the predatory agreement. This has been a lot of discussion about, and it's important for us to get a common understanding. There is also a clear definition of priority pastures. The management of predators is basically about the management responsibility and the maintenance of viable populations on the one hand and the safety of individuals and of the agricultural and reindeer industries on the other. Managing responsibility is the basic idea of Christian-Democratic environmental policy, and the aim of all policies shall be to solve current challenges without jeopardising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. That is why we need to manage the soil in the best possible way and ensure sustainable development. This includes, inter alia: taking responsibility for biodiversity. Therefore, it is absolutely essential for the Christian People's Party that the four great predators, bears, wolves, yews and gloats, must be managed in such a way that we take our share of the responsibility to secure viable populations of these. The management of predators must be knowledge-based. At the same time, it shall ensure the quality of life of individuals and local communities. The feeling of insecurity in some areas needs to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2383	The centre party is fully behind the 2011 Robbery Agreement. However, if the rapprochement is to have the legitimacy and respect of all groups, the provisions of the conciliation must also be followed up in a balanced manner. Licensing is considered a main instrument for stocking of yorks and bears. When allowances for this hunting are laid down on a professional basis, they must also be followed up in practice. If one year after the year, it is felt that the take-off is disproportionate to the quotas set by the regional government and the professional authorities, it will weaken the confidence in the predatory game settlement and thus in the predatory policy in general. This situation description is the background to the proposal of the Centre Party to be examined here today. Figures from the Directorate for the Environment confirm that in 2013 a quota of 18 animals took 2 out of the bear licence hunt. A total of 5 bears were taken out during 2013. In the case of you guys, in winter, 37 animals were taken out of a quota of 145. That means it was just taken out about 30 pst. of the quotas set for you by the deer and the Directorate for the Environment for Bear. The Directorate-General for the Environment saw the license hunt on bears as having failed last autumn that, according to a press release dated 13 November 2013, they opened up an exceptional withdrawal this spring. And after this year's jersey, the Environment Directorate in the press release dated 18 February 2014 stated that it is a potential to make this hunting more effective than today. When licence hunting fails in this way, there is a need to discuss what measures can help to meet the predatory agreement at these points. And I'm very surprised at the other parties' lack of willingness to go into that discussion. Nor does the Minister for Climate and Environment address in his reply to the Committee the fact that the hunting of licences is not working, as intended in the predatory game agreement. It is most surprising that a State Council of a Right Party government avoids dealing with the issue as such. The absence of withdrawals during the ordinary pursuit of licences increases the pressure on withdrawals during the breeding season and the use of methods of withdrawals that are disputed, including: helicopter hunting and hijacking. It is paradoxical that one first, in line with the predatory game deal, gives allowances for a license hunt that then fails. Then an extraordinary withdrawal that in no way weighs up the allowances you can't take out during the license hunt. Then there are new injuries in the grazing season that result in another setting of quotas – to reassure people – that are not being met again. That's how the round dance goes. In the setting, some of the batches said that the set allowances were not intended to be removed. What is it other than to throw blues in the eyes of those who are affected by this? Is not one serious about decisions made in the predatory game agreement? In any case, it is not permitted in the robberies agreement that one should set allowances that one does not take out. The purpose of effective methods of hunting in the licensing procedure is not to extend hunting, but it is that a sensible way of withdrawing allowances for licence hunting provided for by professional authorities for different predators. From the Center Party we have said that we are open to discuss other measures, but we have, frankly, met a wall of silence – almost like a desire to ignore the whole issue. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that one should be careful to allow the killing between 16 February and 31. May because it is a breeding period. The funny thing is that just these days, environmental management is the sea that makes individual withdrawals of both yews and bear in the middle of the breeding season, and they do it in ways that are highly controversial. I'm not very happy with either helicopter hunting or hijacking. I also believe that it is paradoxical that the license hunt could not be made more effective in the autumn and winter, so that the quotas you have set were taken out, and so that you avoid extraordinary withdrawals that are carried out in a controversial way during the spring. It's a shame that the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Workers' Party travel around the country and say one thing to people, but don't dare stand for it here in the main hall. With that, I'll take up the proposal of the Center Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2409	The representative of Marit Arnstad has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2414	When the representative Arnstad in posts for posts and questions for questions challenges the other parties, I have to say that it is a little interesting to look back in history. When it comes to hunting in winter, is the question who has set the limits for hunting that took place in winter? Is it the government that has just joined, or is it the government that Arnstad himself put in, that actually turned out to have a huge challenge? The centre party was the biggest challenge in terms of action, and when there was a signal to the management to get a more efficient take-off, a management that has now received these signals. Then the question is, what has changed in winter since the Central Party itself was part of those who made the arrangements for the hunting to be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2421	The robber agreement was concluded in 2011, so this is the third season we have experience in licensing. It's true that the license hunt has not been quite successful any of these three years. But I think there's a reason to point out that only 30 pst. of the quotas in the autumn and winter were taken out, while it can be seen that, in particular, the nitrogen stock is well above the stock target in the prey agreement. It was a pretty good take-out of you guys in 2012, but it's a very low take-out now in winter, and it requires that you're actually willing to do something to meet the quotas that's put in the robberies deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2426	I really have a very simple question, because we see that in the letter from the Minister for Climate and Environment, she says that there should really be a gap between set quota and actual withdrawals, and that it has a connection with how realistic the set hunting quotas are. Then I notice that the centre party does not agree with that interpretation and I believe that we should ensure that the extraction, i.e. the hunt for bears and yerv, is arranged in such a way that the quotas set are actually removed. So my question to Marit Arnstad is: is it that Marit Arnstad and the Center Party believe that it is better with lower quotas where the whole quota is taken out, or will you keep higher quotas, which is the current system, but where you actually set the quotas higher from the very beginning than you expect to take out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2433	I think it's important for the confidence in the game management that you don't throw blues in people's eyes. That means that I think it's unfortunate that you set high quotas, if that's really the way to just take out 30-40 pst. Of the quotas, because then you keep people a little bit too fooled. I think a lot of people in the industry are reacting to it, and there's no way in the robberies deal that you're just going to take out a share of the allowances. In addition, I find it unfortunate that the environmental authorities and the SNO end up doing helicopter hunting and hijacking in the spring to reduce the level of conflict before the grazing season. Then I think it's better to take out a larger share of the quota – preferably the whole quota – during the ordinary licence hunt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2438	The representative Arnstad is very busy with allowances. On the other hand, if you look at the reality out in nature, namely the wild game populations, you can see that the herd may be above the target population, but it is – after what I have heard – already shot ten groups, so it may already be below. Gaup population is below the target, bear population is well below the target and wolf population is below the target. Is the representative Arnstad open to the possibility that the problem is not that there are not too many predators but that the quotas are set too high?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2445	The centre lot is occupied by the allowances because the allowances are laid down in the tiller game agreement and the centre lot is very much for the tiller game deal. Those allowances are the result of licensing being a principal instrument of the predatory game agreement, in which case quotas are set on a professional basis, inter alia. from the Directorate for the Environment, each harvest. We're dealing with that, because it's a natural part of the predatory game deal. Then you can also relate to the stock targets set by the Storting through the Robbery Agreement. Then we'll be facing you. In the case of bears, it's hard to know. We are by date below, but that's because the registration of the bear population is very uncertain because the only thing it's based on is DNA samples, and that means you're dependent on a hard drive to collect faecal samples, and you're probably missing out on registrations on the bear population.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2455	From the left side, some of the things we're most satisfied with in the last period, just the broad agreement on the predatory settlement. I am also very pleased that we still have a broad agreement that we should stick to the predatory settlement. This discussion shows you exactly at its level of detail where the conflict is. The size should normally relate to the overall leaders, but just when we discuss predators, we really go down in the details. There is a necessity because the level of conflict is so high, and because the disagreement between the parties has been so great. For the Left, it is important that we pursue a policy that is in line with the Berne Convention, the Nature Diversity Act and also the two-part objective of Norwegian predator management to have grazing animals and predators, while at the same time having conflict mitigation measures. Based on the debate, I also think it is important to remember that the four major predatory species are on the Norwegian Red List of Endangered Species, where the wolf is critically threatened, youives and bears are heavily threatened, and gloat is vulnerable. For the first three species, it is also a question of species of peace. From the left side, I find it strange when the Senter party so strongly emphasizes that one is fully behind the predatory settlement, but at the same time the only party that wants to make decisions on changes in the predatory settlement. From the left side, we're very happy that this is rejected by the bulk of the population. It is important that we have an administration based on scientific and experience-based knowledge, but it is also important that, in terms of the withdrawals themselves, attention be paid to ethically soundness and to applying general principles in game management, such as the requirement for human hunting, breeding and breeding. I'm not going to go into the details of the different proposals. What's important is that we're not just talking about withdrawals, we're looking at the whole purpose of the predatory settlement. From the left, this is about having the big predators in Norwegian nature. We have a broad consensus – after much conflict – and have managed to reach an agreement on the stock targets that apply. It is then important for us that these stock targets are not considered to be a ceiling, but that there is a specific objective that can be set, that there is a target to be pursued, and that there is a management that ensures exactly the objectives of the stock. So it's complicated, it's conflicty, but the Storting has in a broad consensus clear to come up with a settlement. We should still stick to that agreement, even though it's painful to be on the left side of it, precisely because we might want a stronger protection for the big predators. For others, this may be difficult to deal with because you want changes in administration. But it is important that the Storting stick to the agreement even in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2473	The Centre Party has submitted eight proposals to increase and improve the efficiency of the deportation of predators. The reason is that it is necessary to shoot more wild game in order to meet the predatory game agreement. The centre party is reporting on this proposal – both by the reality of Norwegian nature and by the Stortingens predatory settlement. The proposal is based on a direct misrepresentation of reality, because there are no more predators in Norwegian nature than the predator agreement adds – it is smaller. As a predator biologist, I can assure the Assembly that Norwegian predator populations are extremely well monitored, probably at the absolute world record level, and it is not right that we know very little about how it is. The problem is not that few predators are being shot in relation to the quotas, the problem is that there is an impression of it, because the quotas are being set too high. The Jerusalem population shall be 39 juveniles. It was at 44, but after what I've been informed, 10 pairs have already been shot. The Ministry of Knowledge's art database is raining Norwegian yorks as heavily threatened. It's going to have to be 65 juveniles, it's 59. The bear population shall be of 13 juveniles, it shall be of 7. The wolf population should be of 3 juveniles, it's of 3, a pair of which is 51 pst. Norwegian. In other words, at least three of the four Norwegian predators are under the agreement. Replacements paid for predatory sheep have not gone up. They've gone down through the last four, five, six years. Predators are not made to be nice. They have sharp teeth, they have short intestines and they can generally eat nothing but meat. By definition, predators are troublesome. But they're part of nature, and they've always been a very central and shaping part of Norwegian nature and the nature of all other countries. Elk, pure, deer, deer, deer and other species had simply not been the animals they are today, without bear, yerv, wolf and vulture. Evolutionary and ecologically, these species are two sides of the same thing. Anyone who wonders what a pure minus wolf and yerv is can take a trip to Svalbard and look at the animals like those who call pig with horns. The basis for the predatory settlement is that most of the Norwegians want predators in Norwegian nature, because they appear to belong there and are of great value. The agreement on predators shall respect this and respect these values. Yes, predators are a major problem for livestock users affected, and therefore Norway has the best compensation and remedial measures for predator damage in the world – and we need to do more. However, industrial activities using Norwegian nature must also respect and adapt to the nature they use — not only as a resource for agriculture but also as the whole of the people's common owner. Norwegian livestock farming is fully understood as having a cost of grazing in the wild. Every year, two to three times as many sheep and lambs die in Norwegian nature of things other than predators — by fleet, by roman, by chopping, etc. – and these animals suffer at least as much as those taken from predators, and the loss of the farmer and the industry is much greater, because the losses they receive are not replaced. But this deals with industry in line with other problematic framework conditions. It is not reasonable that losses due to the part of nature called predators should be treated as exceptionally different from losses caused by other parts of Norwegian nature. It's in this field that we have to look for better ways towards a less contentious relationship between sheep and the nature that the industry uses. We in the Greens are pleased that the bulk of the population respects the rapprochement. The agreement shall ensure both a minimum of Norwegian predatory stock and reasonable opportunities for Norwegian grazing. We are pleased that the bulk of the population understands that we are not doing any service to Norwegian agriculture by making the predatory conflict even bigger than it actually is. Taking agriculture into account for a policy that never stops attacking the part of Norwegian nature that a large population will retain is both poor environmental policies and poor agricultural policies. The roaring agricultural pattern that many of us have just joined in here outside the Storting, shows one thing quite clearly: it is quite different from predators who threaten Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2492	I'd like to say that it was a very good post that was made by Rasmus Hansson right now, because it's such that it's easy to lose perspective when we discuss predators. One of the main perspectives is that the Norwegian predators we have are threatened or seriously threatened, and are at an absolute minimum, and partly below the minimum that is really sound, if we want to provide sustainable populations. That must be the starting point for a debate. That is why I am always happy when I hear that the Minister for Climate and Environment says that she will focus on the predatory agreement and the Berne Convention when she talks about how Norwegian predatory policy is to be managed in Norway. That is also why a unanimous committee rejects the proposals submitted by the Central Party, for various reasons, which all those who have read the vote will see. The starting point is that there is a broad uprising in the people for a strong protection of the predators that we have – in fact, it is that in the last measurement that was well published in the Nations in the last year, there was an even greater proportion of the population who wanted a stronger protection of predators than is the practice today. I believe that we should have that in mind – and I would also like to have it further in our head, in our pancakes – when we discuss the policy that is about how we take care of our predators. So, just as Rasmus Hansson was in, there is no doubt that there are conflicts associated with this. I believe that having good arrangements for compensation and compensation is important, and the fact that the government chose to draw the anchor of the judgment that was, I think was important to show that you want to compensate in a reasonable way. Working purposefully with the prevention of predatory loss, with everything about research and development of technology and other forms of stock measurement, I think is extremely important. So it's like in this debate we're on different legs. When I get up in the morning, I'll be most concerned when it's that the number of juveniles laid down in the predatory settlement is lower than what lies in the predatory settlement, while when Marit Arnstad gets up in the morning, she'll think that her concern is strongest if the number of juveniles is higher. That's what it's going to be. That is why we in Stortinget have agreed on a predatory settlement, which we will manage in the best possible way. So there's two things that I think it's worth discussing, and I'm waiting anxiously for what Tine Sundtoft will say about that. It is worth discussing how the current balance between licensing and SNO killing is. It's a real debate – how we do it in a way that we think is the best. I think we agree. I also heard Marit Arnstad say that it is not desirable or lucky with hiutak. Hypnotism is the most controversial way of killing predators. It is not that we should ensure that we have the most possible peaks – there is a balance I expect to hear the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment say something about. And it's always worth discussing whether we're doing well enough with what's about prevention and making sure that the conflicts are at the lowest possible level. But I would warn against what I heard in some debates that I took part in during the election campaign, where more people were eager to automatically, for example, enter and define that predators in grazing areas should lead to killing, even though I see that the Council of State in one of its letters announces that she will go in more carefully and see if further clarification is needed as to which criteria to use. We have a responsibility for our predators. Throughout history, we have sinned a great deal against taking care of the predators. When several people here mention that we're going to have a knowledge-based management of predators, that means that one should be based on knowledge, not that we should have knowledge and then ignore it when we manage predators.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2509	We have a two-part objective that we should have both predators and grazing animals in Norway. It is in the nature of the matter that this is demanding. We're following up all of the points in the predatory game deal. It shall be in accordance with international obligations and within the framework of the Nature Diversity Act. The main challenge is to find a balance where we take care of predators while at the same time creating the most predictable and good framework conditions for grazing animals. Only in this way can we achieve the broadest possible acceptance of the predatory game policy. The wild game agreement says that the populations of wild game are to be kept as close as possible to the required stock targets. Gaupe and bear populations are now below the population targets. The stock of wolves is exactly on the stock target, and the stock of yews was slightly above the stock target in 2013, while now, at a talking moment, in 2014, it is slightly below. Jerv, bear, wolf and king eagle are peaceful in Norway. Jerv, bear, wolf and gauze are classified as threatened, i.e. that these species are at high risk of extinction in Norway. Nevertheless, we sometimes have to take out predatory game, for example. in order to prevent damage to grazing animals. Quota hunting and licensing are the main instruments when we regulate the population of bears, wolves, yurts and gloats. These forms of killing ensure that predatory game is managed as much as possible as other game, with wide participation of local hunters. Courses and skills-enhancing measures are being implemented to increase the effectiveness of licensing, but there are, after all, few individuals of these species in Norway. When withdrawals from the licence are not satisfactory, the Directorate for the Environment implements withdrawals of the remaining licence pooling quota. However, there are different restrictions on the withdrawal of remaining licences. Quotas must be set at a realistic level, the test must be effective and the safety of killing personnel is crucial — for example. it is not relevant to operate in racially hazardous areas. We have and must have a high level of preparedness both before and during the grazing season to ensure that withdrawals are carried out whenever necessary. I underlined this in a letter to all the predatory authorities on 28 April 2014. I understand that sheep owners can dwell on animals that are taken by predators. It is therefore important to have effective measures and withdrawals, so that we can reduce losses as much as possible. However, I believe that several of the measures proposed by the representatives of the Central Party are not in line with ethical principles of animal welfare. This applies, inter alia, to: the fall in the licence of the bear during the period during which the bear normally goes in hi. This also applies to the licensing of you guys in a period when the puppies won't make it if the mother shoots. There are very good reasons why all game is at peace during the breeding season. Animal ethics applies to predators as to grazing animals. Robbery management is built up by various actors to play on the team to get the best management possible. Together, we must take care of the whole of the predatory game policy. My opinion is that there is systematic and good cooperation between the agencies. The game management takes rapid decisions and makes the assessments it is obliged to make. I mean, we now, collectively, have many of the tools that are needed. At the same time, I would like to make it possible to further develop the use of instruments and to further streamline management. But allowing hunting that can lead us to set aside important animal ethical principles is no dangerous path.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2537	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2540	I thank the Minister for a good speech, and she is so clear that she is on the verge of reconciliation and international commitments, so that the consensus we reached last year also stands during this period – that we balance different considerations, and that what is initially totally contradictory opinions is respected, both of them. But in a letter, the minister describes a gap between the set quota and what is the actual withdrawal, which is related to how realistic the set quota actually is, and is therefore not able to read mathematically how successful the withdrawal ends up being. When you read the rationale, it's kind of understandable. But it is clear that there are great expectations, and it is by no means anti-conflict, as this debate has also shown. My question to the Council of State is just how she and the government are going to address this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2551	As I said in my first post, I think it's important that the overall targets are those adopted by the Storting. Then it's important that we are realistic when we set the quotas, and here the government wants to have close cooperation with the predators as well. The Minister of Agriculture and Food and I met with the wild game students last December. We're going to have a meeting with them now, on June 2. I think we are totally dependent on having a close dialogue with the predatory wildlife subjects, so that we set realistic quotas – and quotas that are in line with the overall goal of being the closest possible stock target.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2556	I understand that this government has decided that the quotas that are being set for licence hunting are now suddenly a very awkward concept, and that one has to think about what's set for quota and what's realistic for quota. And then you end up taking out 30 pst. In the context of a complaint case for bear quota hunting last year, the Environment Directorate stated in a letter dated 20 August 2013 that a withdrawal of 14 bears is considered not to be harmful to the survival of the population. They also said that there is no satisfactory solution other than the agreement for a bear. Does the State Council support the Environment Directorate’s view that 14 bears do not harm the survival of the population? And then how will the government help to actually take out more than the five or seven bears that are now taken out?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2565	As of now, six bears have been taken out – a bear was shot last night as well. It actually illustrates how close we are now to this administration, and how clear we have in managing this predatory policy, which I said is incredibly demanding, because one has two conflicting objectives. I think it was a wise response from the Environment Directorate, but what we are now saying is that we should have an active policy in this area, to also look at the potential for damage in those areas, of which the letter dated 28 April this year. But it is important that we go into each case and assess the damage potential, which is now done in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2572	I have to say that 6 shoot bears of a quota of 18 that was set by the Environment Directorate last autumn, probably not so close up, according to my assessments. It's still a question of what the Right and Advance Party now think is right in terms of the withdrawal of bear and yerv. As I said, a 14-bear outlet is not considered by the Directorate-General for the Environment to be harmful to the survival of the population. Then the Council of State insisted that some animals were taken out now in ours. This is done in the middle of the spring break, which the Council of State has warned against, and it is often done with methods that are very controversial. Wouldn't it have been better if someone had taken out a larger share or the entire quota through ordinary licensing, than that one would have taken out the animals now in spring using the most controversial methods and in the middle of the nesting season?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2584	It is an objective to obtain them through an ordinary licensing arrangement. That's what's the main instrument for the stocking of bears, wolves and yorks. Now, when we're below the population target for bear, there's no goal to take out an quota of 14, but it's important to have a number for how many can take out. But it also depends on where the bear is. That's why we have a zone management and a principle to follow this closely, and that it's the predators who have this responsibility. By the way we now work, we have a better dialogue with the predators and a good overview of where the animals are going, and we also go in and assess in each case whether the animal constitutes a potential for damage. The important thing is that a proper assessment is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2590	I really want to ask the same question to the Council of State that I asked to Marit Arnstad instead. She's very concerned that we shouldn't throw blues in people's eyes, as she describes it, by setting a higher quota for licensing than you really expect to take out. The question is whether the Council of State agrees. Does she want to keep today's system, where you put a high roof, but does she expect you to actually take out a lower number of predators? In that case, I might think that it should be even more clearly communicated on the basis of both the Council of State and the environmental authorities and on the part of the entire administration. Or should the government meet Marit Arnstad and set a much lower quota ceiling on the number of animals you want to trap, but in return put a roof that you intend to reach?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2595	I think it's important that we agree that we're going to try to reach the stock targets. That is the overall objective of the predatory game policy. And then we use licensing as a principal instrument, and as part of that, we set quotas. I'm busy setting realistic quotas. Here you might say that there's a gap between the quotas you've set on withdrawals of yours, but as of today, there are 13 juveniles of yours, which means that we're now below the target for yours. If the goal in itself was to reach the quota, it would have been an even larger gap up to what the size has decided to be the stock target for you. So we have to have realistic quotas, but here we have to see the country as a whole and where the yew are in the individual geographical areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2600	The council just said that she would carefully assess the damage potential in each case. What I'm asking is whether the council can give me an example of a predator who is in a priority grazing area during the grazing season, which does not constitute a potential for damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2605	Although we now have a full overview of very many animals moving, I don't have a good overview that I know the name of exactly the wolf that moves in an area, but there are examples that some wolves go through an area and move out quickly again. They are then defined as not having a potential for damage. Now – because we are approaching the grazing season – we have sent out a letter to the predators that one must now take even better care and react quickly if it looks as if the animal is not just a stripe, but as if it is planning to settle down. We have several examples of quick reaction in reporting an animal and getting permission to kill the animal because it is defined to have a potential for damage. But once again: it has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, you cannot have a general permission for killing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2610	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2613	The centre party is entirely on its own in most of the matters we are now debating. The reason is that when we go back in history, they go from the one ditch, where they sat or lay with SV, to the other ditch, where they are now sitting completely alone. The agreement was, as we know, concluded in 2011, and we have had three winters of hunting. The administration and understanding of the settlement have been challenged repeatedly since 2011, and the most difficult point has actually been the Center Party. In particular, the formulation of the damage potential in the priority pasture area has been strongly debated. But we've got a government shift, and this government shift has given much clearer answers than what we've seen before. There is a willingness for exceptional measures to achieve stock targets and for priority grazing areas — faster withdrawals. And one is willing to be on-hand, instead of what we saw before, when the time passed and the pest could actually get into other areas. In other words, we have changed and intensified measures to increase the legitimacy of the agreement on predators. That's what it takes. The Council of State must have all the credit for that. It was necessary to show that SV is now out of the Ministry of the Environment, today's KLD. When the representative Arnstad now challenges all the parties, it must be in place to ask the representative Arnstad: what has been done by the Central Party for the winter hunt to be more successful than what it itself refers to – 30 pst. by you and 30 pst. by bear? The answer, as we know, is nothing. One thing I'm going to support the Center Party, and it's this thing with hi-up, whether it's you or another animal, but it's especially you guys that's up to date. There is no desired activity at all, so licensing becomes the most important thing there is to prefer. Also, the large resource used by using helicopters for hunting is met with little understanding within an industry that hassles with profitability. But when one wants to use a helicopter to extract pests, it only shows how necessary it is to do it, because the administration regime through the three preceding winters has by no means been as it should be. We hope and believe that it will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2622	I am very disappointed that this representative's proposal for measures to comply with the predatory agreement has been put forward by the committee, and that the centre party seems to be the only party that is still behind the predatory game deal. The proposal we have been promoting is nothing more than a proposal to implement the policy adopted by the Stortinget in the past unanimously by the Robbery Agreement in 2011. The result seems to be that the Center Party is standing by itself. I notice that the representative Oskar J. Grimstad, who has previously been a strong voice for a predatory policy that reduces the damage to domestic animals and domestic animals, now bites in himself everything he has said before, and apparently is satisfied with the state of things. It has been barely a year since Grimstad in a question to the then Environment Minister Solhjell stated: ‘The legitimity of the predatory settlement is compromised by the lack of ability to harvest predatory populations far beyond the agreed stock targets.’ That's exactly what our proposal will pay for. Unfortunately, there has been no change in the game management after Grimstad's question in June 2013. The change has occurred in his will to follow up a matter he had previously burned so eagerly for. It is not much the same with the government partner of the Party of Advancement. In a 2011 VG lookup, Røjres Gunnar Gunnarsen says that the Right warns of a strong tightening of Norwegian predatory policy when the staging parties join forces to build a new predatory settlement. Right requires more stringent predatory policies – the centre party has failed, Gundersen dared to say so at that time. What he says today, when he and the party vote against implementing the measures Stortinget agreed on in 2011, I am excited. We are now in front of a new grazing season, and we know from experience that it won't take long before we get dramatic reports of the loss of sheep and domestic waste. In one of the proposals we are making, it says: ‘The Government is asked to specify that, when predators are present in priority grazing areas at the front of and during the grazing season, they represent a potential for harm and must be removed; [[...]] This proposal, for which the Right Party and the Advance Party have previously been hot speakers, they are now voting against. I want to hear the reason. Do you mean that the 2011 predatory settlement will not be followed up? Should it be for the administration to choose which parts of the settlement it will follow? I hear from time to time that the prevention measures established in the area of wild game management work well, because the loss rates have decreased in some places. I guess it's probably been because there's so many people who have gone down. Before the last farmer put the hook on the door in the Lierne, the losing stables in the municipality of course went down.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2647	I will join Heidi Greni and say that I am also very surprised at the situation in this case and that the proposal of the Central Party does not receive any support. The whole purpose of the proposal has been to contribute to a better follow-up to the two-part objective of the predatory settlement behind the Stortinge, grazing animals and predators. In Uppland, from which I come, in the last few days the hunting teams have placed two bears, one of which has damaged sheep. It's great that the government has told us about the rapid extraction of pests now in ours, and people think it's good. But unfortunately, the killing of bears now is basically a reaction to a predatory policy that does not work according to the objective. It's not about the spring we should take out animals, we should do that in the autumn. Harm trapping is imperative, but it is neither desirable for those who want more predators, nor for those who want fewer. It only creates higher levels of conflict and greater contradictions. Today’s business includes: to achieve a more effective licensing agreement, i.e.: We want a license agreement that is so effective that we avoid situations with bear withdrawals in the spring, as we have now. The aim must be to achieve the objectives of the stock and to operate a licensing management as an instrument, as established by the predator agreement. That's exactly what's at the heart of the Central Party proposal. Therefore, it is quite incomprehensible to me that neither the Right, the Advance Party, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party or the Left will support the possibility of looking at an extension of the license hunt, simplification and organisation. I do not understand the logic of several previous speakers here today that predatory game policy is so difficult and complicated that the answer is that we have to leave the follow-up to the government and the administration. I think that's quite eye-catching. It's not about pragmatism, as the Progress Party said, but about disclaimer, as I see it. This is a theme that engages far beyond the mass of the Central Party. The predators are not owned by local centre parties. They are, in fact, cross-political, with people from the SV and the Workers' Party and all the way to the Right and the Advance Party. They also include professionals from the county office. In Oppland, both the Right Party and the Advance Party have been high on the path of predatory policy. Now it's getting a little bit quiet. The right has said that they want more power for the predators, and so right locally they borrow the predators' local ear. So far as Oslo doesn't hear it. I would like to say to the Council of State that I hope that in her meetings with the rapists she will listen to them. Because it doesn't help meetings if you don't listen to what the predators say. The center party listens to the grassroots. We're following up the predators' input and we'd hoped the Storting would do the same thing. I'm recording that the majority doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2666	I need to make a few brief comments at the end of the debate. The lot of the centre has no problem in assessing the predatory game agreement both on the basis of the main instruments of licensing and on the basis of stock targets. That is precisely why I also referred to what the Environment Directorate said last autumn, namely, ‘A withdrawal of 14 bears is not considered to be harmful to the survival of the population’. The reality is that one's going to be less than half of it. That, I think, is a matter that also needs to be taken seriously, and that means that the issues we are raising today in terms of withdrawals are important both in terms of licensing and in terms of stock targets. So it was the representative Grimstad, who asked what the Center Party had done this winter in order to get a full license hunt and licensing agreement. Well, the license hunt on the bear ended at the end of October, and the license hunt on the yerv ended on February 15. This winter, the Progress Party has been in government. The question is not what the Centre Party has done in winter, the question is what the Advance Party and the Right will do in government to fulfill what is the main instrument of the Robbery Agreement, namely that the licensing quotas are to be taken out on the Yews and Bears – and especially on the Yews, where one is above the stock target. So I've been concerned about the question of spring hunting. I'm critical of spring hunting. I think it's a simple and easy solution, with controversial hunting methods, which I see that one now also uses from the Right and Advance Party to say that one still meets things in the Robbery Agreement. It would have been much better if one had done that extraction through the ordinary licensing arrangement instead of the SNO traveling around on the spring side and shooting from the helicopter or making hi-takes. That issue has been addressed by the Central Party in its proposal No. 7, which is just about the need for environmental authorities to step in more actively to contribute to withdrawals during the ordinary licensing period. Unfortunately, it is probably my impression that the majority here in the Chamber did not want to reflect on either that proposal or other proposals from the Central Party in this context. It's a shame, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2679	When one hears the post of the representative Heidi Greni, one should believe that she came into the hall just before she held it. When you come to the conclusion that the administration is doing whatever it wants, you can see that there's just one thing you don't understand that today's debate. One also claims that the predators have been tried out. Yes, that's right, under red-green rule they were tried every once in a while. Every once in a while they were overtested, and considerably overtested, too, while now, under our regime, they have been tried once. That's actually the real number. To the representative Arnstad: a framework for the activity before it begins, not in the middle of the hunt, neither in autumn hunting, nor in winter hunting, nor in spring hunting. So it was the red-green government that actually made the premise for how successful the hunt we're now seeing was going to be. Finally, when one is so fundamentally disunityd in what we are debating today, a few have to ask the question: where was the Center Party when the Robbery Agreement was negotiated? I was there myself, so I know well what she was doing then, and the eagerness – or should we call it the lack of zeal – to the Center Party, after reaching the goal that they are specifically calling for today. That was the time it was possible. It is more difficult now when the settlement is a fact and the details have been shown to be important and clearly go across the thoughts of the Center Party. But we haven't seen that through the three previous winter seasons that we've been hunting before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2688	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2704	The organised transport system, often referred to as the TT system, is essential for persons who cannot avail themselves of the ordinary collective offer. This is essentially about the fundamental principles of our society, creating an inclusive society for all. It's about no matter who you might be, a few will experience being part of the community that we all want to be part of. This is about taking seriously and designing a policy based on the principle that all people have the same value. For the Christian People's Party, the design of the TT system has been an important matter for several years, and I know that other parties in this room have also been involved. It is about creating a TT system that can work best for those groups that today lack important opportunities to live an almost normal life. Full participation and equality for people with disabilities is an important policy objective that I know has broad support in this room. But then the quality and, not least, the scope and arrangements of the transport service are also crucial if we are to achieve this goal. In this country, we have practised a TT system administered by county councils as an offer for disabled people in general. However, a large proportion of these TT users today are not really disabled, but people who have had complex problems due to old age. 70 pst. In fact, users today are over 70 years old, and only about 70 years old. 10 pst. below 60. Studies show that the oldest user group is largely satisfied with today’s offer. By raising the case today, it is important to stress that the new arrangements should not go beyond this group, which is satisfied with today's offer and for which it works well. Users of today's TT offers will continue to receive a good offer from their country in the future. What we from the Christian People's Party will focus on today's interpellation is disabled with a great need for a separate TT system. These are people who, because of their disability, are critically dependent on a transport system in order to live a normal and good life. This user group is limited in size. Estimates show that a satisfactory offer of door-to-door transport for this group of disabled people will cost an estimated 200-300 million. kr per year. During a three-year period, trials have been carried out in three counties with an organised provision for people with disabilities with a high need. The counties of Eastfold, More and Romesdal and Nord-Trøndelag. The testing has taken place on the basis of different criteria and arrangements to be evaluated. With this interpellation, we want to take this system one step further. Now is the time to put in place a national TT system that guarantees disabled people with high needs their right to participate in society in the same way as all of us. It is good that the stately attempts should now be evaluated, but we shall not sit down and wait for this in the eyes of the Christian People's Party until we take the next step to get to a national order. On the other hand, experience from the state-of-the-art trials may be included in the assessment of the content of a national scheme in order to ensure the most appropriate arrangements for disabled persons. A national regime should contain some essential criteria that should be implemented equally across the country: Today, it is offered through the usual TT scheme of two to four individual trips per month. By comparison, travel habits surveys carried out by the Transport Economic Institute show that people generally have three individual trips per day. For a TT scheme for the purpose we are talking about today, user organisations have estimated that the minimum requirement may be 240 trips per year, i.e. five trips per week. After a journey back and forth to the store, many disabled people have used up the transport quota for several weeks, as the usual system is today. Studies show that too poor a TT system results in both less opportunities to act that is desirable and, in particular, a reduced ability to live a social life. Just something as important as being able to follow up your own children in a good way is being limited by the lack of the TT system. Then one can add the importance of being able to participate in association, visit friends and family, etc. There is no reason for a scheme to meet the needs of people with disabilities to be based on fewer trips than they do. 240 per year as outlined here. In order for the scheme to provide this group of people with an offer without too long planning time in advance, it is important that this is not organised as an order transport. It will require a lot of planning in advance, provides too little flexibility, requires some bureaucracy and is a model that has actually proved to be bad for user groups with high needs. You don't get out when you want or need it, and it may be a long time to wait to get to the place you want. If you are going to reach the train, a playtime or follow the children on football training, the order transport is not working properly. Active disabled people with high needs for organised transport depend on just the same flexibility as everyone else in order to make everyday life go up. Therefore – point 1 – a good alternative is that the user gets a number of trips per month ordered by regular taxi service, which can precisely ensure the flexibility needed by the user. Secondly, the user must pay an excess of the distance corresponding to the collective rate in the same State. In the case of longer journeys, the TT system shall be capable of being combined with public transport. When several of the disabled people’s organisations have been committed to providing good national schemes for those with the greatest needs, it has been noted that these are not special schemes that give special privileges to a selected group, but a scheme that ensures those groups with the same opportunities for disabled people across the country as all of us. Then we're in the third point: the arrangement has to be equal all over the country. It is vital that this becomes a national system that ensures equal treatment regardless of where you live in this country. And I hope that the Council of State has noticed its State Secretary, Mr. Bård Hoksrud's statements in the interpellation debate that was on the same subject in the Stortinget in 2010, when he said as a big-time representative: ‘And then I think it’s quite strange – when we once again discuss what we discussed throughout the previous period in the Transport Committee, and which I know has been discussed in the Labour and Social Committee – that we can’t put in place a national system that applies across the country and that ensures that everyone gets the same offer.’ Here is the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party completely in line, and I am pleased with the consensus and commitment we have had together over time in this matter. So now I hope the Council of State uses the opportunity today to establish that this will come into place from 2015, and that he gives the same impatience as his State Secretary had when he was a magnificent representative. In our view, the system must be organised by the Ministry of Transport, which can ensure that the criteria become common to the whole country. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will also be concerned that the planning, the more detailed design of the criteria, can be designed in cooperation with user organisations, such as the FFO, the NHF and the Blind Alliance. It will also be important to involve them in the evaluation of current pilot schemes as well as the schemes that are now, hopefully, being put into practice nationally. With regard to the costs of such a scheme, this will not be much money compared to what it creates and contributes to an active life for a group of people who can just experience isolation as one of its biggest problems. Many of these are too rare to get out of the home. They have little opportunity to visit friends and family. They can rarely participate in meetings or in organisational life, and – what many experience as the absolute worst – they have too poor a chance to follow up their own children. Nor should we forget what such a scheme can save society from costs in general, and that lack of social networking and inability to participate in society on a broad scale can lead to. That is why I hope that we now have a national system that ensures the disabled with great needs, organised and flexible transport services, wherever they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2754	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising a theme that engages both the representative's party and the signatory's party, even the entire government. This is a theme that we've been working on for a long time. In the seven months that we've been running, we've been busy building up better infrastructure. It means an increased bet both on building the road and the track and betting on the bus, boat and aircraft. It is a commitment we have made both economically and organisationally. Organising ourselves better so that we get built-up road and rail and give a faster and better offer is almost as important as just spending more money on action. There are many reforms in place. Some of them are also mentioned in the revised national budget, which is now being dealt with in the United Kingdom. Our goal is to get a better travel everyday for most people, both in the context of work and in the context of leisure. Having a functioning society with good infrastructure is important both for society to function and for people to get to work and make good use of their leisure time. It's about quality of life. That objective must be equally strong regardless of whether a person is talking about persons with disabilities or disabled persons. What is important in this debate is that some of the infrastructure-related services are purely State-owned. For example, this is a case in point. about building a highway, and it's about bets on a track. Other tasks have been allocated locally per day. This is about, for example: county road, and it's about bus. This means that before launching some national schemes for the TT service, one must also clarify a little of the objectives of local public transport. For the offer you have for – we should call it – disability health at collective level, is delegated to the local level, while what one here is talking about is national norms. We know that the collective effort around the country varies depending on where you live, a bit because of geography, but also because of the political color and priority of those who rule. And there has to be a relationship between how a person prioritises locally for different groups. The system of organised transport for disabled persons is special transport for travellers who, due to disability, are not able to use ordinary public transport. It has been part of the responsibility of the county council, as it is they who run the local public transport. The arrangement we're discussing here, just to underline it, is meant to cover leisure trips. It's also interpellant very busy. There are separate schemes for travel by work and education and for health travel that ensure that the needs are properly met. In this discussion, it is also important that you look at the work done to improve universally designed travel solutions. Making rail platforms, trams or buses better universally designed may reduce the need for TT arrangements or TT travel, simply because those who do not currently board the collective means of travel can use them in the future. It's a carrot for those who are responsible for developing universally designed solutions, that it can actually reduce the need for special transport. Then we also see that a number of county municipalities provide a more flexible transport offer, such as the order transport, which I noticed that the representative Gruvan was not so positive to, if I perceived him correctly, or flexible transport. Nevertheless, there can be good solutions locally by getting more people to use a cab together instead of driving separately. The fact that it can be perceived as less flexible is possible, but we also need to remember that not all travellers are satisfied with the flexibility of ordinary public transport. So some disadvantages can be perceived to have – for the places that use it. So we also know that if you get more universally designed solutions in some places, a few reduced distances you might need for TT driving, just by getting aboard ordinary public transport if you get help a bit on the way. The policy that has been pursued so far has been based on the fact that it has been very general in terms of the guidelines given, precisely because the county authorities have been responsible for local transport. Now it is a trial project, and it also refers the representative to it. This is the experiment for TT users with special needs in selected municipalities in the North Trøndelag, Møre and Romsdal and Østfold. There has been an attempt to gain knowledge of how to better organise improved provision for TT users, the costs associated with it and how it is received by users. In the three years that have gone by, 28 million have been allocated. kr to this project. We have asked the county councils to give us an evaluation of the scheme. They've presented a set-up, and they've recorded some things to us. So this is going on right now, and we've said that by the end of the third quarter of this year we're going to complete the evaluations. Then it is natural for me to take this further and start to conclude and recommend. So I'm not ready today to make conclusions. Then it would have been a little pointless to have implemented a scheme, if one takes further steps before that. But I still appreciate that we are debating this because it is important for the government to get a signal on the way about how the Storting wants to prioritise. A little depending on the extent to which such a scheme is provided, it will also affect costs. Is a very restrictive, this doesn't have to cost very much. If one is generous, we're talking about billions of dollars. Then the Storting must also be willing to prioritize it and not just debate it. I remember that in 2012 half a billion kroner were spent on the TT systems. It gave an offer to 114 000 users, but it varied a lot what kind of offer they received, a little depending on the state. And there are also different costs based on this scheme depending on where you live, because it's a little bit about what it generally costs to use a taxi and that kind of thing, and how long distances you must have covered with a taxi. The municipality of Oslo was the municipality that used this scheme most deciduously, while in Hedmark it was probably the largest proportion of the population that received the offer. So a little bit depending on how a rains, there are different states that can boast that they are offering a wide range of offers. So we're going to evaluate this. Then we will come back to Stortinget with our recommendations on what changes you should make in the scheme. But for me, it is essential that we, together with those who need such an offer, find a solution that makes a person get good quality in everyday life. Getting to work and taking advantage of health and education services is an important part, but having good leisure experiences, being able to visit the family, as the representative mentions, is also part of having a good quality of life. And if as a society we can give a handshake to give a better offer to those who are unable to use collective solutions, I think that's definitely something we should give priority, but the evaluation will provide us with useful information on how to move on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2790	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I felt that he expressed a clear commitment to the matter, both on behalf of himself as the Council of State and on behalf of the government. I also registered that he stated that he would take this further. Of course, we are happy about that. What is important for the Christian People's Party now is precisely this by getting further progress in this matter. The size has discussed this quite many times, and then it is important that this does not just die out as a trial plan, and that we can agree that we are dealing with a group of people, and not least many young people with family and responsibilities for children, who have a much greater need for organized transport services than what today's ordinary TT system is aimed at. The system as it works today – then I am not talking about those trials – is simply not good enough for active young people with high needs, to adapt transport services to the tasks they have and the obligations they have undertaken, either as family members or by participating in a social life that they absolutely want. I also notice that the Council of State says that evaluation will be carried out in the third quarter of 2014. I think it makes a lot of sense that you get a good evaluation of the trial project. However, it is important that one does not stop there, so that the system now going out as a testing scheme in 2014 will have a stay in 2015. That's why in the Christian People's Party we are concerned that this is going to be a national arrangement, and that one is starting that planning already this year. Governments mention universal design. Yes, that's great – we agree very much – but we know that it takes quite a lot of investment if you're going to make this work. It's talking about tens of billions to get this in place, so I think this will be a much more reasonable arrangement. The Christian People's Party's intention to raise the matter today is therefore not primarily to have a debate on the matter again. It is to achieve further progress that can contribute and contribute to providing this user group with a national, permanent system. So I hope that the Council of State also thinks that although it's not his budget it's about, we know that being able to get an active social life for this group of people is saved social costs in other budgets – costs that you have to use to repair damage that's just the result of isolation and solitude, and at all the lack of being able to live a good life. It's about taking the challenge that all people are equally worth, seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2807	Thank you again. And thank you for a new post from the representative. I'm dividing the engagement. We've had that in common in opposition, and I'm aiming that one has to go on in position, from our different roles here. But for me, it's equally important to stress that the evaluation is done here because we want to learn from it, and to get a better order. So it's possible that it doesn't happen as soon as the representative wants, but my intention is to give a better offer to more people, either because one gets targeted TT system, or because one gets universally designed some important travel sections that make the need for specially organised transport go down. I've had several meetings with what we can call the user groups here, both the Disability Association and people with different disabilities who report their daily challenges. Some places it's just about having platforms that make them fit into a T-course. When you don't have it, you need special help. Such investments are expensive – there is no doubt about it. When it's more expensive to build a railway station today than 20 years ago, it's about wanting more people to be able to use it. So you get a lift solution, you get different standards on the platforms, just to make sure that it can get the most around on its own in society. At other times it is simply about getting a standardisation of the systems – of audio signals and that kind of thing. But I think it's important that we on the government side have an approach where we look at when we make investments, it's not enough to look at a platform here and a platform there. One must ensure that one has tracks, or distances, as one set at a time. When we have to prioritize, it's important that it's a whole, so that people who can get on a platform one place get off the T-Bahn or train somewhere else. It's not useful to do it just individually here and there, if the person gets on board, but doesn't get off again. Therefore, one must also have a strategy in that approach. So it's also important here that one manages to keep many thoughts in his head at once. I am recording some of the debate that has now been about being allowed to set environmental requirements for taxis, among other things. by believing that now only electric cars or hybrid lorries should be fitted with chargeable vehicles. Then it would mean that the cars that currently carry wheelchair passengers around would be banned in the taxi industry if such a legal requirement came – simply because it is not a good offer on the type of cars today, which are therefore larger cars. That's why it's important that we don't let the one good purpose relating to the environment destroy for the other purposes we have in making sure that one has a diverse and versatile offer based on many needs. But I look forward to hearing the speeches in this debate, and then we have to take it further into our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2822	I am very pleased that the representative Hans Fredrik Gruvean has promoted this interpellation. I'm also glad that the Council of State shows the commitment that he does. I share the thoughts of the Council of State around it with universal design. I couldn't say the better myself, how important it is to do the wise grip right away when you're going to design something, and that one so in retrospect that one hasn't done it. The red-greens have also been in and out. It turns out that very often, no matter who controls, the user groups are not well enough to get universal design in the best way from day one. But that wasn't really the main theme here. There are a lot of people, with the FFO at the head, who have been working for this for many years. I myself have the past as county food rapporteur in Rogaland, and I once served as State Secretary in the Department of the Council of State and in both these contexts had close contact with the FFO, and especially with the Atle Lunde, who is in the Blind League. When that contact occurred, it was often to discuss the TT scheme in general. But eventually it was also because the FFO was busy letting us as politicians – and perhaps especially, I don't know – understand that the TT system doesn't embrace everyone. That is why I was very happy when we in the red-greens, of which I was a part, put that test in place in 2012. Then the NTP setting committee was dedicated to ensuring that everyone should have a real opportunity to live active lives, and one was very concerned that user involvement should receive particular attention in the evaluation of the trial project. What is important to point out in this case – as I think the interpellant says very well – is that this TT system is not meant for everyone. It is intended for those who cannot use the ordinary public transport or who have their own car as an alternative. That means they don't initially have the flexibility that we can use our own car, take the bus or train. It doesn't exist for them. Many people with reduced vision and other disabled people are totally dependent on the TT system to live a normal active life. I think very many people don't understand the difference between the TT system that is, and the piece that we're talking about here. We're talking about parents, mothers and fathers, who want to participate in their children's activities, such as: a football tournament. You can't get from Ålgård to Kverneland, there's no bus. But you don't get there either as parents with your children if you don't have something organized to do. The same thing is if we're going to be in the spear. We're talking about young people and young people who want to be with peers at concerts. Then you need help getting from Randaberg to Stavanger. One speaks of everyone being allowed to live ordinary social life that everyone else takes for granted every day. The Committee was concerned about the signals coming from user organisations that there were still considerable variations between countries. Many people feel that the schemes are inadequate. I'm sure, as the Council of State says, that the attempt will give us knowledge of both the organisation and the costs. It was also one of the goals. But the main objective is to find schemes that work for those who have to make use of them and who cannot avail themselves of the ordinary collective offer. It was an important signal, and it was important to point out that the state funds to come in this context were not to replace the county funds, but were to be added. At least I want to signal to the Council of State that it is important to have an alert eye on the timing of the evaluation. I think there are a lot of good arguments for doing this nationally, and the FFO is especially concerned about getting this in place as a nationwide scheme from 1 January 2015. I think, like the interpellant, it's essential that it's the Ministry of Transport that ensures that the criteria of the scheme are what you want. I also believe it is essential that organisations be actively involved in the evaluation of the scheme. We want to be involved in the pressure that the intentions of the scheme on which the red-greens launched a pilot project have become so ‘worker-party’ that ‘all should join’ will become a reality. I share with the representative Gruevan's considerations about this that everyone has to be included in society. I also want to wait and see what the evaluation says, but I think we have no more than time and time to put in place a system that should be good for those who need this most of all, namely those that fall outside all the other systems we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2848	As a starting point for this debate, I think it is important to stress what has also been said by others, that the aim is to make ordinary public transport so universally designed that most people can use that transport. Investment funds are being significantly invested in it, by being able to take the train and by being able to get away from the train station and beyond. It is a responsibility of the individual county and the individual carrier. I noticed that the NSB is now also offering assistance at the station, so that you can get help to get over where you are going. It is added to a better offer. The second is, of course, that universal design makes it possible for most groups to use ordinary public transport. I have to say that I do not have the negative attitude towards ordering transport, because I know that from counties who have a widespread order transport, the demand for TT transport is not as high as it is in counties that do not have that system. This is also seen with other types of transport, such as sick transport, etc. – something you were also interested in. With regard to the further work here, the counties themselves will be so different as to create a national system, not sure what is going to happen. But it's possible to find some things that have to be national, because it doesn't work across borders. That's maybe the anchor point you have with the TT system -- that it applies very much within the individual state. At least we have received feedback that the big challenge really comes when you have a family in another state and are going to visit, for example. from Oslo to Kristiansand — getting good arrangements that make it possible to become marginal in terms of TT regimes that are especially for those with the greatest needs. That's what the representative Gruvan is dealing with here: those who, however universally designed for different reasons, can't use public transport anyway. It's a group that we absolutely need to focus on. Now the Ministry of Transport has launched a trial. I also think we need to evaluate that experiment. But I don't mean that all of this is going to be done nationally. It is necessary to find a natural distribution of what should be national guidelines, and what needs to be adapted locally, because we have different modes of transport and different frequencies of transport. There are many more possibilities in Oslo than they are in Oslo, for example. in Hedmark and Oppland from and to different attractions. Me and the Right are meeting with great expectations of the evaluation that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2861	Ensuring that disabled people with a high need for organised transport services can participate as much as possible in active and normal life is very important. Many are still at work. It is important to organise so that it is actually possible to participate in the labour market. Today, the county council is responsible for the TT system, while the interpellation has expressed the wish for a more permanent system nationally before the expiry of the test scheme. Norway is a long-term country, and the counties may have different transport needs and solutions. Too many national restrictions could create unnecessary and costly solutions. Today, different legislation and plans are being put in place to take account of disabled people. Among other things, there are guidelines on the number of disabled sites in both industrial and public buildings. Some examples are that bus stops are arranged for wheelchair access and disembarkation, and there are lines to and from. Infrastructure and means of transport shall be designed in such a way that collective transport solutions can be used as much as possible without resorting to specific aids or assistance. I would also like to mention that it is very positive that county municipalities can work together on good solutions for transport, including between the counties. It is also the case that many municipalities establish more flexible transport services, so that it may be possible for many TT users to use regular public transport services. An example I want to mention specifically is the Health Express between Haugesund in Rogaland and Haukeland hospitals in Bergen in Hordaland. There are buses specialising in sick transport that transport patients to and from health businesses. In my opinion, when a test scheme is being carried out in three counties to last in 2014, it is wise to await the results and the forthcoming evaluation of the test scheme and, where appropriate, to re-examine the issue of national legislation when it is available. The intention of the interpellation is good, but by waiting for the evaluation, it will be possible to make even better progress by providing a good and proper transport service for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2878	The Christian People's Party has raised this matter several times and will, through this interpellation, get a good permanent solution to the TT case. I represent More and Romesdal, and the county is like one of the states in the sample system. The feedback to, among others: The blind Alliance has opened up a whole new world for those who have been included in this trial scheme. In More and Romesdal, this applies to 150 participants in nine municipalities. Blind, severely impaired and wheelchair users are participants. More and Romesdal had one of the worst arrangements in the country. The dissolution of a testing scheme will be a major step back for participants and will lead to greater isolation. Everyone has to have the same system and opportunity as we have in More and Romesdal, a national system in which a number of trips are granted instead of a number of dollars. There are large distances, and there are different distances. Therefore, it is important that there are tours that are agreed upon. It was a great and good transition for many of the users when you went from the paper and coupon system when you were going to take a bus and taxi, to a TT card that has worked very well. Mr More and Mr Romsdal have made a good start on the evaluation. The participants really offer themselves, and they spend time writing their experiences. The feedback so far is very good. The participants have got a new and more active life, and they come up with comments like: Now I can get out and be social and visit the stores and services you depend on. And another, who went straight to my heart: the first few days went to get me over the jolt – think that I can be on something when I want to, feel happier. I've now got the feeling of living, not just being alive. There are strong words from users, and there are strong words that show what this system means to individuals. We have an important task here in the house: to meet these users' everyday needs. I think – and I have expectations – that the government will be able to find good national arrangements adapted to local conditions. There are other things we are dealing with here in the house, which show that the government can handle it, and I think this is such an important matter that there is no reason here that there should be some intermittent between a trial scheme – a probationary system – and until we have got this as a national scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2893	Accessibility for everyone is an important principle that we must all strive to fulfil. The right to an active life, regardless of age and level of function, is the same. The fact that people can move around easily, efficiently and safely is essential for them to be able to participate in work and social activities. We therefore need to develop the transport system so that as much mobile as possible and that the need for special solutions is minimised. However, the TT system will continue to be important for those user groups that need door-to-door transport and cannot easily avail themselves of the otherwise in place offer. Today, the county councils are responsible for providing organised transport as part of local public transport. The 19 counties have chosen different solutions, and they give different priority to the scheme. And then the country is different, and there may be different reasons why you've done it like that, but there's no doubt that we need to move on. In the Red-Green Government, with the Central Party in the Ministry of Transport, we proposed to launch a pilot scheme for the coordination of order transport and the TT system in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, and in the State budget for 2012 we proposed setting aside 10 million. a new pilot scheme for users with particularly high needs. The design of the new experiment should be based on experience from the first attempt at coordination between the order transport and the TT system and those from Nav, the county municipalities and the organisations of the disabled. As mentioned earlier in the debate, three municipalities were designated: Møre and Romsdal, Nord-Trøndelag and Østfold. The aim was to increase awareness of the organisation and costs of improved provision. Now it's important that these trials are evaluated quickly, and we've heard the Council say you're already doing it. Because when I point out that there must not be much time and point to the word «rapid», it is because there is a need to move on and find solutions that ensure that the users we are talking about get a good offer. An evaluation must not be a piece of rest; we must use it as much as possible to ensure that we find a system that is accurate enough to meet the different challenges that exist in our long-term country. I've met many user organisations, many individuals, and there are many strong stories about the fates of those people who haven't had the opportunity they need to be social and participate in society with their children, or participate well enough in various other types of activities. I have also met strong stories from people from these three counties who have been given an extended system, pointing out that now they have put in place a system that gives them a better life, which gives them the opportunity to be socially active. Now we have to look at how we can best move forward, and the Central Party wants people to have an active life, regardless of their age or functional level. We want a society for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2910	I belong to those who were not satisfied with the posts of the Minister of Transport here earlier today, and I would like to express it because I feel that he deserves to hear it. That's because he's in his post, among other things. said – I perceived it this way, he gets me corrected if I am wrong – that it was pointless to proceed with some types of arrangements before we had evaluated the trials that were. But it wasn't the Progress Party that traveled around and campaigned neither in Oslo nor any other part of the country. On the contrary, they fought for their party program – and this is one of the parts of the party program that I and SV agree with – namely: ‘The FrP will establish a national transport system for persons with disabilities and special transport needs and strengthen the system. [[TT]] The objective of the scheme is not to prevent persons with disabilities from having an active and independent life.» My question about the posts that have now been, among other things. by other representatives of the Progress Party – who were heard as they did not believe that they wanted a national TT regime in line with the programme of the Progress Party – are the following: Is it such that Ketil Solvik-Olsen is on the agenda of the Progress Party? Is it such that the government agrees with what is stated as an election vow in the Progress Party program, or is this something the Right has discarded because they do not have a similar commitment? We heard, among other things: I used to refer here to different types of arrangements, and there were others who talked about national regulation being too tight for them to secure, but put ties on, the individual freedom. Basically, the point of the Progress Party programme on which Ketil Solvik-Olsen was elected – or on which the Progress Party went to elections – is a point of freedom. It is a decision of freedom, because it is about people with disabilities who cannot avail themselves of the means of public transport. I fully agree that the objective must be the universal design of all modes of transport. But what we're talking about, and which the interpellant has addressed in the debate, is precisely a system for those who cannot use collective funds, either because they do not have the opportunity to do so because the offer is not universally designed, or simply because their disability is so strong that even with universally designed means, self-transport arrangements will be necessary for those with disabilities. Then my question is: Is it such that this is something the Progress Party and the government is working for – this on which they have gone to elections – or is it such that this is not something that the government can guarantee that they will get in place, or guarantee that they will work for? It's about freedom, and it's about participation. We have people in my own party who have the opportunity to participate actively in party work, precisely because you have good arrangements. Others say that they are party members, but do not have the opportunity to participate in political activities and at political meetings. Because it is absolutely right, as the Workers' Party pointed out, that this is about participation in a social life and in social community. But it's also about something as fundamental as the right to speak in a democracy, to participate actively in the democratic arena. It could be a cross of thoughts for all of us who have been sitting here on the Storting, people who have been sitting here for a long time – I've been sitting here for 13 years now – that it took their time before the Storting had universally designed chairs. It shows something that people with disabilities do not have the same active voice and the same opportunity to have an active voice represented in the political bodies. That is why this is about both freedom and democracy. One of the things that the Blind Alliance and others have brought up with us is that if you don't have a national TT system, but have fragmented arrangements around in different counties, it can give results like that. that you can drive from one end of the Grorud Valley and have the opportunity to use TT-travels from there to the other end of Oslo City, but you don't have the opportunity to use it for the five minutes above the border of Akershus, because you have different systems and different arrangements, and so you don't have the same freedom that I perceive that many people here in this room express their desire.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2935	Everyone has the right to an active life. What we're talking about here is family life, it's leisure. The size was discussed on 19 March last year in the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. That UN Convention was ratified by Norway on 3 June last year. As the spokesman for the Central Party in the debate at that time, I stressed that such ratification must have consequences in everyday life, that it must have implications for budgetary priorities, and when we are to give priority to this, as I said, it will, among other things. give reduced real income growth for the functionally healthy. At that time, one of the social committees took a very close look at, among other things. Article 5, paragraph 2 of the United Nations Convention, and a unanimous committee said that Article «obliges the parties to prohibit any discrimination on grounds of disability. In the case of discrimination, this means the refusal of reasonable organisation. The Committee takes into account the following interpretation of reasonable organisation: necessary and appropriate modification and adjustment which does not impose a disproportionate or undue burden, where necessary in a particular case, in order to ensure that disabled people can enjoy or exercise all human rights and fundamental freedoms in line with others.’;» As others have pointed out, this is a case that has been raised several times, in relation to the question of to what extent this should be a county or state responsibility. As some have also pointed out, several representatives of the Progress Party presented a draft representative on 11 November 2010 and there was both current Secretary of State Bård Hoksrud in the Ministry of Social Security and the current Council of State in the Ministry of Labour, Robert Eriksson, among the proposers. And what was proposed by them was ‘national guidelines on quality and quantity in the TT system, and a financing system that ensures TT transport in line with the guidelines’. So what's happened since that time is that we've ratified. From the setting there can be read that such a policy as the Progress Party then referred to, with national guidelines, may ‘incite additional costs and break down the established division of responsibilities between the levels of government and the principle that the counties are the ones to determine the scope and quality of the provision of public transport’. So that's what was said by the majority at that time. Since then, we have ratified the UN Convention, and everyone in the Labour and Social Committee was aware that when one did so, it would have to mean gradual improvement of day-to-day arrangements for people with disabilities. What's essential for the Center Party is what criteria we're going to apply here. There must be criteria to ensure that there is a level playing field across the country for a vulnerable group, and in order to achieve it, national guidelines and a national funding mechanism should be in place. National requirements for such TT regime should be: that the scheme is to apply only to disabled persons who, because of their disability, have a high need for such a scheme, that users of the scheme are to be allocated a certain number of journeys per calendar year, that users are to pay an accrual for each trip, an equivalent ticket price for public transport for similar journeys, that the scheme is to be used throughout the country and in combination with public transport for longer journeys, that it is essential that the Ministry of Transport ensures that the criteria of the scheme become those desired. A national TT system may be organised through the Nav or County Municipality. The TT-Drossion order must be designed in such a way that it is possible to use TT on short notice, as several have been involved, and it is natural that organisations are actively involved in the planning and implementation and evaluation of the scheme. But what is happening in the Storting today is that, slowly but surely – as a result of the ratification of the UN document – it has to deliver practical results. And here we are facing an area where you can do it. In the past there has not been a necessary understanding, but now it must be put in place, as a result of a new approach to the disabled, as the Labour Committee has dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2976	I would like to thank the interpellant for promoting an important theme. The TT system is a good system and an important system for people with disabilities who cannot use public transport. It is important to live an active life, and it is important not to be discriminated against. TT transport is an offer of leisure travel, and it is not intended to replace other types of travel that can be covered by other public things, such as: travel to and from a doctor or work and training journey. Therefore, it is also important to continue working with universal design, so that more people can use trains and buses, as has been a lot of work here in the capital area. I know Akershus, which is what I come from, and there I know you've worked a lot with the TT system to eat it a little bit more, so that those who really need it get more travels. There is the ‘ordinary travel right’ that you may be granted if you are unable to use public communication. It is an ‘extended right of travel’ for those who are completely dependent on wheelchairs during almost all movement, and if you are mentally retarded, blind or visually impaired, or if you have to use an oxygen appliance. And it's also a "reduced travel right" for those who struggle to get ahead with public communication in winter when it's slippery and there's a lot of snow. So there you've eaten it and differentiated it. I'm probably a little skeptical about making arrangements that are going to be the same across the country, because the states are different. There have now been three trials, and it will be exciting to look at that evaluation. I don't want to think so much about having national guidelines or one before you see that report, but the goal must be that those with disabilities who cannot use public communication must have good arrangements, so that they can live an active life and not be discriminated against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e2987	I think it has been a useful and interesting debate on a very important topic that I feel we all agree to deal with people who need a better offer than they have today. I would like to make a few comments on some of the issues that have been addressed in the debate. Universal design: it was said very well about universal design, and I don't think there's any disagreement in this room about the need for it, but it doesn't help the group we're talking about here. That's the point. A disabled car park for a 100 pst. blind, which cannot drive a car, is not the offer that these persons need. We need to be aware that this is about a special target group, which is limited – there are not many we are talking about – and which have special needs. It's the group that, no matter how far we go with universal design, will have an unmet need, and we have to try to do something with them. Then it's important, in our opinion – I think many here in the Chamber agree – that we get a good TT system, which is state-funded and nationally organised. I think it is important to have national arrangements, which have also been the subject of progress party representatives in previous debates here, and which I have also read in the programme of the Progress Party. If you live in Akershus, Østfold or Møre and Romsdal, it shall not be essential for the provision of a sheep to meet the requirements of the offer made to users with special needs. There must be arrangements that apply wherever you live, and one must organize this so that this can also be in excess of the country. It is very important if this is to be perceived as relevant, flexible and organised for the individual user. One can come back to the issues of organisation, cooperation with regional authorities, etc. I understand that one is going to evaluate, and that's always important, but the point is that we don't get a break and a stay in the arrangements that are today. My final question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State promise that we will have a continuation in the design of a system that can be national, and that can be equal, no matter where you live in the country, or do we have to wait for a long evaluation process that will lead to months and years before you can move on? This is an important group. They need an offer now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3002	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. There have been many interesting points of view and quite a consensus on both the situation and the wishes we have. It is important that the government and the Storting discuss this together and find out how to prioritize and arrange the bet. It is important, as the representative of Gruvan points out, that we also see that there are different needs to be met. Something better is covered by massively investing in universal design, but even this will mean that there are some groups that need special arrangements. One must not go at the expense of the other. When it comes to progress, I'm once again pointing out that we're going to evaluate this over the third quarter. Then we have to see how we're going to move on together, and there might be some of it you have to discuss in Stortinget, when you're going to discuss the budget. In the end, I am also very pleased that there are some representatives in this room who are very eager to ensure that as soon as possible the individual party programmes of the government are implemented as quickly as possible. The fact that the Progress Party in the opposition made proposals for a national regime is a policy that we still stand for. Unfortunately, we don't have a majority alone in this Chamber, but I can promise you that the commitment we have in the party program is reflected in the way we work in government. I would also like to remind you of what Mr Lundtigen said, namely that when this proposal was promoted in this Chamber, the red-green parties voted against it. Then it's particularly embarrassing, I think, when some of the red-green representatives are now very excited that the Progress Party will deliver what they themselves voted against when they had power. It's not entirely related. It's not a very constructive approach. It's more about a desire to plague people because they haven't delivered in seven months what you yourself refused to carry out in eight years. I can promise you that the commitment that the representative of Gruvan represents, and that I experience in his entire party, in the Left Party and in the Two Government Parties, promises well that in our years to come, we will deliver far better results here than what we were refused to do when we tried in the opposition. In this way, I am very happy – both on behalf of my own party program and not least on behalf of those users who need a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3017	Case No. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3023	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. As previously adopted, the presentation of important EU and EEA matters by the Minister of State at the Office of the Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU will be discussed in a subsequent meeting of the Council of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3033	During the debate, Mr Grande has put forward two proposals, on behalf of the Labour Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, which reads: ‘The Government requests the continuation and follow-up of the cooperation agreement concluded on 3 October 2012 between the Government and NPISHs on the supply of health and social services.’ The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3052	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, which reads: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the system of sheltered tenders for ideal child protection providers at least to the same extent as today’.» The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal. The President makes it clear that there may be a sharp vote here, so you have to focus on the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3137	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3150	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3164	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: 4–6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3176	In the course of the debate, nine proposals have been put forward, from Marit Arnstad on behalf of the Central Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals as soon as possible on how to set up a licence hunt for bears and yorks in such a way that the quotas laid down are actually withdrawn.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a licence deposit during the period in which the allowance can be effectively withdrawn. This means that the licence hunting period for bears is extended to 1 November and that the licence hunting period for yorks starts on 20 August instead of 10 September and that the length of the hunting day is extended to the fixed time.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Grand total requests that the hunting period for gaupe in North Norway be extended to 30 April.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size calls on the Government to facilitate better and more effective licensing through the following proposals: (a) Permit «loose on driven neck dog» in the case of the pursuit of a licence on herds. (b) permit the use of fixed light during the attack on the cord, and the use of the torch/headlamp during the pursuit of the torch. c) Allow the image monitoring of booths for the capture of yaws and gaupe with the duty of the catcher to quickly inspect the booth if the image is not received. (d) facilitate access to the use of snowmobiles for the carriage of ate and booths by means of an jersey.’» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to clarify that, when predators are present in priority grazing areas at the front of and during the grazing season, they represent a potential for damage and must be removed before they cause damage, as stated. Roof-wild agreement pt. 2.2.19.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government before the grazing season to contribute to the increase in the felling of male bears outside breeding areas when the total quota for the licensing of the bear in the previous harvest has not been removed.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to ensure that, during the licence hunting period, the professional authority actively contributes to the withdrawal of the quota set for yorks and bears, cf. The Parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of this 2.2.4.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for the withdrawal of residual quotas after the period of limitation of the licence of bear and yolk in accordance with the provisions of the agreement on predatory animals. 2.2.4.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to include in the BKS model calculations for capture/recovery in order to provide a real estimate of the bear population’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3259	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-20.ana.ud1442e3299	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
