ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e126	Honourable co-representatives! Former PD Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland died after a long illness on July 25th this year. He was 74 years old. He represented Akershus Labour Party for 20 years at Stortinget, for a period ranging from 1973 to 1993. He was an alternate from 1969 to 1973. Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland was a social economist from the University of Oslo. He became economic director at Ahus, a position he had leave from all the years he was at Stortinget. He returned to the position in 1993. He has also worked in his professional career at the Norwegian Institute of Foreign Policy, in the municipality of Skedsmo and at the end of his career in the Landslag for public pensioners, LOP. Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland became early politically active. He was the study director of the Labour Party Student Team in 1965 and the president of the Skedsmo AUF in 1969. He was a member of the Norwegian Student Union Economics Committee. In the spring of 1966 he was a member of the Student Society's board. Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland had several prominent positions during his five periods on the Stortinget. He was a member of the Justice Committee in the first period. For two periods he sat on the Consumer and Administrative Committee, and he was a member of the Financial Committee for eight years. In the autumn of 1974 and in the autumn of 1980, Gulbrandsen Mykland was a delegate to the UN General Assembly. He was also a member of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to the Nordic Council and member of the Norwegian Parliamentary Delegation to EFTA. In the Financial Committee, he was given the great responsibility of the rapporteur to unload the new tax reform that entered into force in 1992, through the Stortinget. Throughout this work, Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland led the peoples to broad agreement on the principles of a new tax system for businesses and individuals. Those who followed closely the work of the Finance Committee in this extensive and demanding work gave Gulbrandsen Mykland very good evidence of his work as rapporteur. He was, among other things, also the case-rapporteur for the Insurance Contracts Act of the Consumer and Administrative Committee. Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland was also very engaged in international work. After leaving the Stortinget in 1993, Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland was assigned to both the Refugee Council and the OSCE. He also served as an election observer in a number of countries and was active in AWEPA, the Parliamentary Network for Southern Africa. He was a real Nordic and was already in his youth secretary in the Nordic Association, Department Skedsmo. Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland participated in the political life of Skedsmo for a number of years, both before, during and after the time of the Storting. For many years he was a marked leader of the Skedsmo Workers' Party, and there at a time of great development and activity in Skedsmo and on the Stortinget. He was also head of the Akershu Labour Press. Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland was a proficient, libertarian and illegitimate politician. He never allowed his opinions to go over, even when these went across his own party's established policies. And he's probably one of the few who in Stortinget has taken a line on the council of state from his own party. Despite many demanding years in politics, Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland also found time for the family in leisure. We thank Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland for his efforts on the Stortinget and in Norwegian society in general, and we light peace on Thor-Eirik Gulbrandsen Mykland's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e158	The following alternates have taken their seat: For Akershus County: Are Health For the Rogaland County: Marie Liones Breek For Eastfold County: Wenche Olsen and Fredrik Björnebekk
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e176	The representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e179	On behalf of the representatives of Torgeir Micaelsen, Ruth Grung, Freddy de Ruiter, Audun Otterstad and myself, I am delighted to make a representative sale to authorize manual therapists under the Health Care Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e184	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e200	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e209	First, I would like to thank the Cooperation Committee on the matter we are going to deal with today, which concerns the repeal of one of two laws regulating pro-boking. The ban on pro-boxing was adopted in 1981 because of adverse medical effects, risk of acute and permanent brain damage and risk of death. In addition, it was suggested that professional boxing would take place in the present unhealthy economic interests. Professional boxing is prohibited by its own law, while other fighting activities that allow knockout are regulated by the knockout law. The Committee has carried out a consultation on the proposal, and in the hearing, the Medical Association, the Norwegian Neurosurgical Association and the Norwegian Sports Association were opposed to amending the law, while the Norwegian Professional Boxing Association and the Norwegian Boxing Association were in favour. The Committee is divided into several parts. A majority of five, including the chairman, support the proposal, while a minority of five are opposed to repealing the law. The Labour Party does not support the proposal. The main reason is the changes that the Council of State has already implemented in terms of security provisions. Amateur boxing operates in many clubs around Norway today, and we are positive about this, because we have had strict legislation, a code that, in our opinion, provided the necessary provisions for the safety and limitation of damage. Governments have recently amended this legislation, to major protests from medical environments and from sports organisations. A lifting of the Professional Boxing Act would in principle be to delegate to the Council of State the setting of the necessary security provisions and frameworks around professional boxing. Like heavy hearing bodies, we disagree with the changes that have already been implemented in the security regulations. The Labour Party therefore listens to an overall medical environment that is contrary to the bill. They have a knowledge-based basis to oppose, and there is an increased risk of harm. As the Medical Association says: ‘there is a difference in substance between the head injury caused in an activity which permits and honors knockout and an equivalent injury resulting from a purely sporting accident’. The government's own technical directorate, the Health Directorate, is also opposed to the changes. The same is true of Norwegian association for sports medicine and physical activity. The Labour Party listens to sport, which is both against the changes made by the Council of State and against lifting the ban on professional boxing. The Sports Association has justified this with several factors: firstly, with the head injuries, secondly, that the professional boxing associations do not have an anti-doping code approved by the international anti-doping body WADA, and thirdly with a lack of overview and action against fighting fixation. When the Workers' Party presented the Norwegian sports model, one of the principles that was established was that the sport should own its own events. It ensures that income is allocated to special associations and clubs so that young athletes can participate in the income generated. Professional boxing is organised by commercial actors. They're the ones who're left with the surplus. Youth in Norwegian book clubs will not benefit from the profits of professional struggles. That's what the commercial actors do. The proposal to allow professional boxing comes from a government that usually uses every opportunity to assert its commitment to knowledge. With all due respect, in this case, government parties have been harmed to put the entertainment value ahead of the knowledge value. Unfortunately, it seems that the proposal to repeal the law has a majority. Then it is Knockout to decide whether or not to authorise professional matches in Norway. A clear premise must be that the denominator demands that those with rights and responsibilities for the different titles, who are to organise matches in Norway, have formal cooperation with WADA and its legislation. Now that the Council of State is pricing as a member of WADA's board of directors, I expect that there will be the opening up of a joint proposal by the Christian People's Party, SV, the Center Party and the Workers' Party that will clarify exactly that. I will address the distributed proposal which reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting that everyone who organises boxing matches in Norway has ratified the WADA Code and thus has a code approved by WADA.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e234	The representative of Rigmor Aasrud has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e239	The Workers' Party article reminds me of or is a copy of what we have seen as consultation notes on this matter to the Committee on Professional Boxing in Norway. In the hearing note from the Sports Association, it says, among other things: that proboscis is an organized crime, consists of fighting fixation and doping, and then you add between the lines ‘and what’s worse. However, the same issues have actually been identified in Norwegian sports, both combat fixation and doping, which are common in many sports in Norway. What will the Workers' Party do with these sports? Or does the Workers' Party also characterise these sports as organized crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e244	There is no doubt that fighting fixation is a major challenge for the sport movement, and therefore we have also had an interpellation in this hall where we have discussed fighting fixation. We have also submitted a proposal for a representative, which I consider to be familiar with the representative Thomsen, because it goes to the committee in which we both sit, that we need to strengthen the work against fighting fixation, because it's an obscurity, whether it's in boxing, football or other sports it's driven by fixation of battles. It's an obscurity that we really should add the broad side to in order, and I also feel that Ib Thomsen's party is occupied with. What I think is alarming, is that the Advance Party and the Right in the setting of this case lean on the organized sport to sort out the fight fixation. The matter we are dealing with today is not part of the organized sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e251	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e254	In the public vocabulary there have been many strong opinions about allowing professional boxing or even, some have even thought that this does the government only because of our great sportsman Cecilia Breckhus, who was otherwise acclaimed at the sports gallery in 2013, when she was nominated by the people for the 2012 exercise. Let me mention some years: 1990, 1995, 1997, 2007, 2010, 2011. If you're wondering what happened in these years, it's common for all these years that the Progress Party proposed to allow pro boxing. This way, it can't be called very populistic right now. Finally, we have a government that wants to facilitate professionalization in Norway within a good regulatory framework, and therefore promotes such a case for Stortinget. There is no doubt, however, that professional boxing poses a risk of injury, like other sportsmen. Norwegian practitioners can exercise their sport abroad, regardless of the lifting of prohibitions, since only Iran, North Korea and Norway are currently not permitted to do so. The progress party believes it is a little special to believe that all other countries are wrong, as they allow it. Or do the opponents more believe that Iran and North Korea own the fasit? I hope today's debate can be more fact-based than we have experience to date. Many who have spoken negatively about pro boxing have not included experience and regulations from Europe, which are otherwise the most severe, but shown the number of unfortunate events in the world. This is a shame – one thing is for the debate, but not least for sport. I would like to point out here that there is a difference between regulations you have to deal with in Asia, the United States and Europe. When the Progress Party today will vote in favour of the repeal of today's Professional Boxing Prohibition Act, it is for its own part after obtaining evidence-based information. I myself have been and seen professional struggles, talking to practitioners, trainers, promoters, etc. to understand more about sport. I have also seen amateur training and amateur fights, and there I also talked to practitioners, trainers, judges, etc. In addition, I have talked a lot with members of the Norwegian Boxing Association – all this in order to gain better knowledge before the matter should be dealt with. As mentioned, some negative input has been made to the members of the committee, and then I aim at the open hearing that took place. There were quite serious and undocumented allegations of organised crime by the NIF, the Norwegian Sports Association: ‘We know that both doping and fighting fixation are linked to criminal environments and organised crime.’ Documentation could not answer the same NIF when the Progress Party fraction asked questions as to whether it could be demonstrated that there was more fighting fixation in boxing than, for example, that occurred in Norwegian football. You couldn't answer that. In this respect, it has been demanding to deal with this matter, as those who normally want to document their input have not been concerned about it in this matter. After providing information and having had conversations with a number of people in boxing, I am sure that the safety of the performers is well maintained. A trainee must obtain a licence in order to qualify as a professional. This requires, inter alia: to undergo thorough medical tests and to meet with a level playing field. And after seeing battles myself, I found it reassuring to see that battles were stopped by medical personnel who followed the ringside, often against the will of the practitioner. In addition, most of the matches are decided on at technical knockout, which means points. So the fewest matches are decided by knockout, as many think. The Progress Party is concerned that this should be carried out in a secure framework and under a strict regulatory framework, namely the European one, in addition to proving that anti-doping work can be carried out in compliance with the key provisions of the WADA. It is high time that the amateurs in the boxing port now have the same opportunity as in other sports, namely the possibility of seeing their role models exercise their sport on Norwegian soil. Some people also arrange for boxing to be commercial. Yeah, I guess we could say it's in the football world too. I can read daily about Norwegian pros who travel around the entire football world and are highly professional. Bike Sports: We could read in VG the other day – 130 million. kr to a certain Norwegian cyclist. I guess it's also commercial. I think it's time to stop politics, but actually discuss this sport and take it seriously. I remember: not enough that Cecilia Brekkhus was selected for this year's athlete in 2012, but she's one of them also nominated this time. The people celebrate this sport. Maybe it's time for the Storting to listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e287	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e290	In Report. Article 26 for 2011–2012, The Norwegian model of sport, says: ‘An absolute prerequisite for state aid for top-level sport is that it is operated within a professional and ethically sound framework. It is desirable to highlight that top-notch sport is borderline in its nature. Renewal is constantly required both in the field of activity and equipment development, and in training methods to assert itself in modern top sports. In this context, it is important that sport itself be aware of the relationship between positive performance trends on the one hand and the health of sportsmen, the ideals of competition on the other hand, and the role of top-level sport as an inspiration for children’s and sportsmen’s sport on the other.’» Professional boxing is not part of organized sport. Does the representative Stordalen see the benefits of the control mechanisms in the organised sport?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e302	As I also said in my post, I have seen quite a number of amateurs. There are nearly 5,000 amateur Boxers in Norway. At present, therefore, professional boxing unions have officially not been present, precisely because there has been a ban since 1981. The Progress Party is aware of the need to have such struggles, possibly in Norway, within a good, strict regulatory framework, which has also been called for in Europe, and it is quite natural to follow some guidelines there as well. I believe that everyone who is in favour believes that it should be safe and sound, and that we should also have the strictest legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e308	In Bergen's Official Journal today, we read another warning from trade unions about lifting the ban. It merges into the array of warnings from the Medical Association, Norwegian Neurosurgical Association and the Health Directorate, all of which are opposed. The introduction of helmets and shorter boxing times is also not something that the Progress Party and the Right will demand; they want to extend the fighting time on the contrary. The Progress Party has sometimes ridiculed the resistance of the Workers' Party and the advice of the trade unions and said that it is wrong research, or that it cannot be compared to boxing in Norway – as if we in Norway were physically put together differently from the rest of the world and could not harm ourselves from the sport. The question is: Why does the Progress Party not want to listen to the technical advice in this matter, and what does the representative Stordalen know about the adverse effects that we – and the best in the country – do not know?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e315	The answer to the question has to be as I said in my post, that the Progress Party is busy getting facts-based information. So the researchers to whom the representative Mandt refers have researched regulations in Asia and the United States, where there had actually been 139 deaths. In Europe there have been two! Already there, the Labour Party shows that they are not concerned with factual information, but it is the Progress Party, and we are dealing with the European regulations. And the researchers have also not researched anything in Europe, it emerged during the hearing. Nor have the Sports Association documented their claims, nor have they been able to do so. No one has been able to prove this, and no one has been researching Europe alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e320	It is a little strange that the representative Morten Stordalen talks about Norway’s professional boxing federation as if they did not exist all the time they actually attended the committee hearing, despite the fact that professional boxing is not allowed in Norway. I'll leave it. Clearly, a stronger emphasis on the health consequences makes some of us landing in a place other than that of the Progress Party, and for the Christian People's Party, the recordings that came to the hearing from different medical disciplines have been important, and they have led us to conclude what we have done. But what is the main reason why the Progress Party has landed where they have landed and concluded what they have done?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e327	Let me first comment on the professional boxing union, so they have no boxers and professional boxers as fighters in Norway, because it's been illegal since 1981, so now it's been said. With regard to the conclusion, we rest on the fact that boxing is an international and Olympic sport. So there's 204 countries that allow it. With regard to professional boxing without helmets, only two countries outside Norway — North Korea and Iran — do not allow this at present. We have faith in the rest of the world. I don't believe Iran or North Korea is sitting on the fasitism of what's right and wrong here in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e334	I noticed with interest that the Progress Party has confidence in the rest of the world. There's a comment I'll make on other debates. I'm going to give the Progress Party this: There's no doubt that they have a fight for profboxing over a long time, and they don't have a change in position. But it's not how long you've had a point of view, which means that it's in principle or not – it's the degree of wisdom and reflection that's behind it. I want to ask the Progress Party about another thing that I know they've been busy about, which I think comes in here, simply anti-doping work. It's been up here before, but can I just get it completely clarified: Is it the Progress Party's hold that if pro boxing is allowed in Norway – which is probably agreed today – it will happen within the WADA code when it is organized fights in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e343	Of course, it shall be done under the legislation of WADA – under the legislation. They have to do anti-doping work on the same line as other sports. There are sports today – I expect the SV representative to be aware of it – NHL players, ice hockey players, who do not have these agreements either, but who do anti-doping work through agreements with Antidoping Norway. And that's what you can do about the boxes. Of course, it has to be equal to the law. As far as wisdom is concerned and whether or not to allow, I assume that everyone who sits in this room and takes part in the debate has acquired knowledge – seen struggles, talked to trainers, practitioners, judges, promoters, etc. to hear what they say.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e350	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e353	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the case and, not least, thank colleagues in the government fraction who have done a thorough work on reviewing both the history and development of the boxing port and, not least, what are the laws, regulations and fields of action in the boxing port internationally in recent years. I have to admit that I could not in any way boast of knowledge about the boxing port until we started working on this matter. However, the work on the matter has – naturally – caused me to become involved in the professional boxing sphere. I've learned what happens from evolution, how sports themselves think and work, and not least how they have actively worked to take care of their practitioners. What I've seen and learned has been very positive. I would also like to underline the willingness I have met to act in such a way that the bad rumors that have turned around about the environment around the boxes, about crime and fixation and jerseying are made to shame. I must say that I reacted very strongly when the Norwegian Sports Association at the hearing almost categorically stated that boxing is an organized criminal activity. I can't believe they have any coverage for that, and they will have to answer that on an appropriate occasion. Putting such a claim as an important reason to oppose the removal of the prohibition is an argument that is not worthy of the organisation. At the hearing, we also experienced a lot of strange use of numbers and statistics, where boxing, irrespective of the rules in force in the various areas, was combined into a soup, and where – as the representative Stordalen has just clarified – European boxing ports could not be displayed under European rules and laws, and what had to happen there, unlike the other places, where there are completely different rules and laws for boxing. For the right, it is important in this case to clarify that it might be as important to point out what we should not prohibit, as to what we allow. 33 years ago, the Stortinget imposed a specific ban. This isn't needed. All other similar martial arts are regulated by the knockout and knockout laws. It must also be possible for the professional boxing. A paradox in this case is that it's usually a pretense to be professional, but when it comes to boxing, it's the opposite, and some people think we need a stricter law for the few that apply. This is a good and necessary cleanup. By lifting the prohibition, everyone in these martial arts is treated in accordance with the same laws, and the regulation is adapted to the international rules applicable to the exercise of sport and to the requirements of those who are to organise competitions in sport. We don't have a ban on professional boxing in Norway today, we just have a ban on organizing competitions. Today, we can allow these, despite all the few professional practitioners, to carry out their competitions on Norwegian soil, according to Norwegian strict regulations and regulations. We can do that with our backs straight, and I'm glad that a majority on the Grand Council with the government parties and the Left is going for it today. So a little comment on the proposal that is promoted by some of the parties in the hall. Once again, a proposal shall be made for eight to ten cases per year. Of all the sports that are in Norway, one should say that in the case of precisely these, demands must be made – the word ‘ratification’ has been used, I didn’t think it had anything to do in an agreement between two organisations, that one organisation, in this case WADA, may have to recognise how this can be done – right to them, while the rest of sports Norway does not have that requirement. I think the intention is good. Then I think we should raise a matter of how Norwegian sport is going to behave in relation to WADA, and I think that we actually get the opportunity on a matter that comes to the Stortinget for debate over New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e375	I understand that the representative Harberg is indignant about Norway's sports association's opinions at the hearing. Nevertheless, and fully – to Nettavisen on 12 February 2014, the Chairman of the Committee, Svein Harberg, states that: ‘For us, it’s important here to have the sport on the team all the time. It would be completely nonsense to do something across the sport. We want dialogue with them all the time. When we have the complete solution, I think it's a majority to lift the ban on pro boxing." Does the representative Harberg think that he has achieved a good result, where he has had the whole sport on his team?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e385	No, when the sport is divided, not the whole sport is on the team. Well, that's what I'm saying. So that answer is very simple. Here's the shared opinions in sport. It's also, we know, shared opinions central to the Sports League. But they have discussed themselves until a majority decision, and we respect that. But the whole sport will be hard to get along with, when it's divided.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e391	It surprises me very much that the representative Svein Harberg and Right are now sceptical about voting for the proposal that has been distributed in the hall, all the time most sportsmen organized through the Norwegian Sports Association have ratified the WADA Code. Does the representative Svein Harberg really think that in terms of professional boxing, it is not necessary to make the same demands?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e396	Very familiar no one has ratified WADA, but they have made an agreement with WADA, in a dialogue with WADA, as a dialogue between two organisations. The wording contained in this proposal seems very strange and probably not correct. That's why my comment was the way it was.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e401	Norwegian neurosurgical association was one of the hearing bodies in this matter and also participated in the hearing of the committee. They showed, among other things: to a comprehensive British investigation where one had investigated former professional fighters after age 50, and 75 pst., i.e. three out of four professional fighters, had certain signs of brain damage after a professional career of more than 10 years. How will the representative Harberg comment on an investigation indicating such a health injury?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e408	It's an investigation that we're registering, and that we're taking with us, but it's also an investigation that shows what it was like in the boxing. I don't know how much the representative has known about boxing, but we've done that in the last year, and we've seen how development has been in equipment – in gloves and everything else used in this sport. There has been a huge development to take care of the boxes and their health perspective in this sport. There we have seen a big change, and we are absolutely sure that a similar survey of today's boxers would not give the same result.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e413	There's a reason to drill a little bit in the answer that Harberg's representative gave. Does the representative Harberg believe that those who box in Norway, whether Norwegian or foreign, must be subject to a regulation that ensures control between the fights, reporting obligations, and using approved doping laboratories, which have also approved WADA?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e418	We have this from the government parties' side black on several occasions, both in newspaper posts and here in the hall today. We are just as busy as the Workers' Party later to be of the fact that the international work, where WADA is absolutely central, will also be followed in boxing. So that's not what it was when we talked about the wording of this proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e423	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e426	The government will thus facilitate professional boxing in Norway under the same legislation as other organised fighting activities that allow knockout. The organisation of professional boxing in Norway requires the repeal of the Professional Boxing Act. The Professional Code provides that participation in competition, demonstration or training in professional boxing is prohibited in Norway. The repeal of the Professional Boxing Act will result in professional boxing being regulated by one knock-out law and the corresponding knock-out regulation. The Government considers it appropriate to regulate all fighting activities, including professional boxing, by one and the same law. The government acknowledges that professional boxing, like other sports, poses a risk of injury. Nevertheless, the government considers that the risk of injury associated with professional boxing is not a sufficiently serious argument for maintaining a legal ban. The Government wants professional boxing to take place within the framework of a coherent national legislation that ensures the essential safety requirements of the activity. Safety requirements will not eliminate the risk of injury associated with the activity. Within the safety requirements set, it will be up to the individual practitioner to assess whether he or she wishes to be exposed to the risk of harm arising from the activity. The consequence of this is that health and safety issues become a private matter, where responsibility is placed on the individual exercise, to which Norway’s sports federations are very critical. They write in their replies to the hearing: ‘The liberalisation which the amendments to the rules of the Knockout Act entail for the sports organised under the NIF, including the Norwegian Boxing Association, challenges the value of Norwegian sport. It also represents a breach of the ethical leadership given for the top-notch sport in the last major sports event. Sport may not have a value basis that makes all health and safety matters a private matter and assigns responsibility to the individual performer.» They further write in their hearing response: ‘However, it is the State that sets out the external framework for what should be permitted as sport in our country. Under such a framework, the State at the same time sets limits on what should be prosecuted in criminal law. Injury resulting from death shall be exempt from criminal prosecution as long as it takes place within the framework of the law to which the approved sport is subject. This underscores the seriousness of the relaxation of the safety requirements of any of the combat events in question.’ They end with saying: ‘The responsibility lies with the legislator.’ That's us. The Committee has carried out a wide-ranging consultation in the light of the legislative proposals. In the hearing, the Norwegian Neurosurgical Association, the Norwegian Medical Association and the Norwegian Sports Association warned against the government's proposals. The proposals were supported by the Norwegian Boxing Association and the Norwegian Professional Boxing Association. When the ban was introduced in 1981, the main argument was the risk of medical adverse effects on practitioners. The followers of professional boxing will show that today medical surveillance is strict, including in the field of professional boxing. But it is not possible to stick under the chair that boxing can cause damage. It is impossible, in the view of the Christian People's Party, to ignore the many warnings of an overall medical profession about the short-term and long-term consequences of repeated blows to the head. There is a broad consensus on risks and adverse effects in the scientific field internationally, as well as in the Health Directorate and the Norwegian Medical Association. It is a cross-thinking that the government chooses not to listen to its own health policy directorate. The fight against health damage and the fight against doping has long been high on the sporting policy agenda in Norway and in a number of other countries. In this area, good cooperation has been developed between sport and the public, both nationally and internationally. The result is an increased demand for anti-doping work, and it is worth noting that today’s tone-indicating professional boxing unions are outside the organized sport controlled by WADA. This also applies to the Norwegian Professional Boxing Association. The health aspect and anti-doping work must weigh heavily, and the Christian People's Party therefore does not want to legalize a sport where the purpose is to harm the opponent, as is the case in professional boxing. We are therefore going to vote against the government's proposal, but of course for the proposal we ourselves have supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e466	I have stood on this pulpit and demanded a comprehensive policy from the Christian People's Party within culture, and then accused a representative that it was person-dependent. In 2005, the Christian People's Party was against, in 2009, they were for, and now, in 2013/2014, they are again against. So it's a little bit back and forth. If a comprehensive policy is personalised, then a question I can ask. It's a cross of thought that you wave like that in a policy that they think is so important. It has also been said that the Christian People's Party has honoured Breckhus in the sports gallery and that she has been a great Norwegian sportsman. Is it wrong then, do I want to ask, that professionals are allowed to practice in Norway or to be active at the Toppsportrettscenter? My question is, What are the facts now that the Christian People's Party is basing its decisions? What new facts have they been given to take the decision they are making today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e471	What the Christian People's Party has previously said about Cecilia Breckhus, I can certainly be of the understanding today as well. She is a sympathetic and capable sportsman. But the Christian People's Party has listened to the medical advice we have received in this matter. This is not a matter mentioned in the Christian People's Party program. Now there is a new cluster that has reviewed this case on a free basis. We have stated that here it is worth emphasising the medical consultation answers we have received, and that is what the Christian People's Party has done in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e477	Today we're discussing the small part of boxing that's the professional. But the end of the intervention of Bekkevold's representative was that a sport run as these professionals do, the Christian People's Party could not possibly go for legalization. Then it can be exciting to clarify: Is it so that the Christian People's Party and the representative Bekkevold will go the other way with this law and ban all forms of boxing and all kinds of martial arts, so that no one is allowed to do it in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e482	No, this is not a fight against all kinds of martial arts, but I want to stress that the Christian People's Party has disagreed with the changes made to the knockout law and the regulation on security. It is strange to see that while all other sports do what they can to prevent health damage, boxing goes the other way, among other things. amateur boxers can now no longer box their helmets. It's not a direction and a path that the Christian People's Party wants to go. On the contrary, we believe that safety must be put in the high seat also in the case of martial arts, and we disagree with the changes that have been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e487	The representative Confessor was very concerned that one should be within a regulatory framework and have agreements in relation to anti-doping work and control. Within the regulatory framework, we fully agree. What I'm asking is, there are sports today that are outside the organized sport, and that have their own agreements on anti-doping work. In my article I mentioned, among other things. NHL in front of the Olympic Games. They are professional practitioners, who have also played in Norway. And we have the Autosports Association. Will the Christian People's Party prohibit these sports, which have agreements outside of sport, since they are not part of the organized sport?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e492	Anti-doping work is incredibly important, and the Christian People's Party wants more sports to be able to ratify, approve, and make an agreement with WADA. It must be an anti-doping work where things can be documented. For the Christian People's Party, you don't think you have an intention or a desire to do anti-doping work. It is important that this is ratified, that it comes under agreements, so that we can fight doping, which is a cancer in sport, and which I believe the representative Stordalen and the Progress Party also agree that we must fight – not only in boxing, but also in other sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e497	I did not feel that Bekkevold answered the question. I asked him if he would ban sportsmen who have agreements outside the organized sport in terms of anti-doping work. There is no doubt that this government believes that the anti-doping legislation requires signature in order to be checked before matches, during matches and after matches. You have to prove that you have an anti-doping job. Does the Christian People's Party wish to prohibit sportsmen from pursuing their sport in Norway outside the organized sport?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e502	I understand that Morten Stordalen is trying to get a technical knockout here, and that is of course allowed. I just want to say, as I said in my previous post, that I want all the sportsmen to take doping seriously and make agreements that are documentable, which are not only beautiful wants us to, want and want to focus on it, but that you make agreements with organizations like, among other things. WADA. We do not discuss prohibition, as Stordalen adds, but we want to focus on this, and I hope the Progress Party agrees with that. I have to say that I am very surprised that you do not support the proposal that, among other things. The Christian People's Party is involved and promotes in this matter. It would be quite natural if you were a little overly concerned with combating doping.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e512	The law prohibiting professional boxing has been in force since 1981. In the work on the matter we are now dealing with, the Central Party does not see that new elements have emerged that suggest that professional boxing should be permitted in Norway – on the contrary. I record that some people are trying to create some sort of illusion that on the one hand we maintain a Norwegian ban on professional boxing, while proudly applauding Norwegian practitioners who operate abroad. I think that's a bit of a funny argument. When some practitioners choose to travel abroad to compete, there is a free choice. But there's a difference between that and whether we as legislators should allow an activity that is demonstrably associated with high medical risk. As the responsible political authority, we cannot choose to ignore the evidence that has come from that very fact. There are many and many things that are associated with danger here in the world, which we do not ban or make policies out of. But that's not an argument to allow everything that's risky either. During the hearing, a number of instances demonstrated the high risk of injury related to pro-boxing. I quote from the hearing notes that there is ‘a high incidence of serious brain damage, including acutely increased brain pressure and cerebral bleeding, prolonged outcome of neurophysiological and neuropsychological tests and permanent damage such as Alzheimer’s disease, other dementia and parkinsonism’ due to professional boxing. When the medical environment is united in producing such consequences, it is simply not possible to ignore or explain to the legislator. It is also true that if you look at past facts that have been gathered, such as: in the German meta-study conducted in 2010, it also appears that pro-boking is associated with extensive serious injuries and that the risk increases with the length of the career, the number of strokes and the number of lost battles. There are similarities between knockout and concussion and evidence of 10-20 pst. of professional fighters have neuropsychiatric sequelae. There is also a risk of brain damage and that the risk of brain damage is greater in professional boxing than in amateur boxing. A legalisation of professional boxing will in itself imply an acceptance and a signal that the legislator adjusts the severity of the risk in professional boxing. With such strong and unambiguous recommendations from medical professionals as were made in the consultation round, both from Norwegian and international levels, the Centre Party considers that it is not appropriate to legalise professional boxing. I see that there is a point made in the fact that the legislation of the European Boxing Union is much more stringent than in other parts of the world and that the requirements for medical follow-up are comprehensive. Insulatedly, it's good and good. In reality, however, it only highlights the main point of departure for this type of sport, namely that the risk of injury is so high and serious that this type of action is absolutely necessary. When the majority chooses to lean on this in an attempt to non-hazard professional boxing, I think it's a bold strategy. On the contrary, I record that the Norwegian Medical Association, on its side, states that professional boxing is more dangerous than before, and that the number of deaths has increased sharply, relatively speaking. With this as a hindrance, it is not relevant for the Centre Party to compare the risk of injury in professional boxing with the risk of injury in other jerseys. Research speaks for itself, and in addition: Suffering from injuries in other edrets, there are above all accidents. In professional boxing, the activity itself and the purpose itself are to cause harm to another person. The centre party also emphasises what has emerged from the Sports Association and the Sports Seas in terms of the risks associated with professional boxing, and I also have to say that I think it is a bit alarming today that those who want to vote for professional boxing cannot be willing to say that an agreement with WADA also needs to be concluded on the issue of doping and doping controls. So when the rules are to be followed, why can't you decide that such an agreement be concluded? The centre party cannot see that there have been sufficiently serious reasons to legalise professional boxing, and will therefore vote against today's proposal and vote to maintain the law we have had for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e535	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e538	Boxing is a wide-ranging sport with 4,500 practitioners in Norway, half of whom are children and young people. It is an important arena for socialization and inclusion of children and young people who might not have engaged in organized sports if not boxing had been there. This sport needs lighthouses, like any other sport does. As the ski sport needs a Petter Northug, the boxing needs a Cecilia Brekkhus. Now, when we clean up and embrace all martial arts in one and the same law, it's natural. But I want to ask the representative Arnstad, who wants to keep the ban from 1981: Before the ban was introduced in 1981, it was on average approx. eight practitioners engaged in professional boxing. After that, the average has been approximately. eight; right now it's seven. In other words, the ban has had no other purpose than to push practitioners abroad, while they continue to receive congratulations from red-green culture ministers every time they win anything. Why should we maintain a prohibition that obviously has no effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e543	I think this debate would have been slightly different if the Right, the Advance Party and the Left had been willing to discuss a lifting of the ban under the condition that one does not extend either the time frame for struggles or age limits, that one does not accept a ban on helmets, and that one does not accept that one should be outside WADA. Then I think maybe this debate would have been a little different. It is a fact that there is some reason why a person believes that the ban should be maintained. As far as amateur boxing is concerned, one has been concerned about improving safety for many years. Unfortunately, the International Amateur Boxing Association changed slightly in 2013 because they wanted to introduce a new professional league, but they have continued to uphold the requirement of helmets for training and for women and children. There's a reason it's there, and it's clear that there's an important distinction between amateur boxing and professional boxing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e551	The representative Arnstad was involved in documentation and reports. I have read from the same documentation, and it deals with the whole world and has mixed the regulations in Asia, the United States and Europe and not just Europe, which I was in my post. It might have been interesting to hear where the damage limit for unfortunate incidents in sports goes for the Center Party. It could have been interesting to hear. Where's the limit going? That debate might have been taken. Actually, the representative Arnstad was into something more serious. She referred to an increase in the number of deaths, relatively speaking. Where can you find that documentation? According to the information we possess, there have been two deaths in Europe since 1995.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e558	That opinion from me relates to a hearing opinion from the Norwegian Medical Association. Otherwise, I believe that this debate would be quite different if you had a discussion about how to protect yourself from the damage you can cause. That's the discussion we have in other sports that is very risky, whether it's American football or amateur boxing. If one in professional boxing had also learned a little bit of American football in terms of stricter rules for the use of helmets and the prohibition of blows against the head and neck, we would have had a rather interesting debate. The problem is that in professional boxing there are blows to the head the very purpose of sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e565	It's interesting what kind of debate we could have had, and it would also be interesting if we could have a debate on what's going on in Norway, which is located in Europe, and the rules you put up with here. At the same time, we know that boxing has done a lot of things, for example. changes have been made to both gloves and techniques. Does the Central Party intend to deal with reports and research carried out in the United States and Asia, which have completely different regulations than in Europe? Is it knowledge-based or does the representative agree that reports and research that apply to Europe alone should be considered when that regulation does not exist at present? Who chooses the Center Party to believe in?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e570	The centre party has made a determination as to whether we think it is right and reasonable to lift the ban or whether that ban should remain. Among other things, we do. based on the overwhelming evidence from the medical environment as to what boxing may result from damage. It is not linked to any particular continent, but it is what emerged from the hearings, including the following: what it can mean for brain damage, brain pressure, brain hemorrhage, and for late effects in the form of Alzheimer’s and dementia. It is the type of balancing that you have to do when discussing whether to maintain a prohibition or not. In addition, when we see that one from the majority here today is not willing to go into what could have increased the security of the practitioners, or is willing to accept a condition to enter into an agreement with WADA – when one is not willing to go into any of it today – the conclusion was for the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e577	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e580	In a free society, you don't need a reason to do something legitimate. You need a reason to do the illegal. In the view of the Left, the arguments for prohibiting professional fighters from exercising their sport in Norway are not burdensome enough. We want to lift the strange ban on professional boxing. The left will notify with the support of the committee setting. The starting point for our vision is that a mature, free person must be able to make informed choices, even when it poses a health risk. Unauthorized professional sportsmen, based on a belief that they do not understand their own best, must require very heavy arguments. The representative from the Central Party, Marit Arnstad, said instead that there had not been good enough arguments to allow this in Norway. I choose to take the opposite approach: I don't think there have been good enough arguments to ban it. Fighting is a form of sport that provides a lot of athletes with both fun and good practice. But all martial arts pose a certain risk – also professional boxing. However, it is a little strange to have an explicit law ban on professional boxing, and not let it be regulated by the knockout law, as other martial arts become. That is also essentially what we are discussing here today – the equal treatment of various martial arts. Then there will be a concrete assessment, based on the knockout law and the regulations, what competitions are allowed. Those who want to organise competitions, demonstrations or training matches in a professional context will have to apply for approval. Such approval will be granted if strict safety requirements are taken into account. That should definitely be the case. But there are also few sportsmen who have tighter control and monitoring of medical professionals than just professional boxing. In the view of the Left, it is also the case that the European Boxing Union legislation harmonized with the rules of the British Boxing Board of Control, which adequately takes care of safety and health. Working with professional boxing also requires a license for the practitioner, which includes: results in thorough medical tests. The level of damage to fighters is also low in Europe, compared to other continents, precisely because of the strict legislation that several speakers have been in today. However, professional boxing poses a health risk. At the same time, it is worth taking into account that the health risk is at least as high, or greater, within many legal extremes, or within other sports, such as rugby. Although there's no argument in itself, I think there's reason to reflect that there's only two other countries in the world that have an explicit prohibition against professional boxing, and the other two have no reason for it with medical reasons once. It probably has the suspicion that we have understood something that everyone else has not realized. What is the reality, as we are, among other things. can be seen in our neighbouring countries, it is fully possible to allow dedicated and professional practitioners to exercise their sport within a safe and responsible framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e601	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e604	I must first say that life has taught me that when one is from a 4-5 pst. party, a monster should be careful to justify things that everyone else has done, and probably has understood the point – but okay, let it lie. I'm going to take up the more fundamental side of what the representative Rotevatn said in his post, and what I could think of asking him about, relates to doping. So, as far as I know, at least according to the Sports Association, it is such that all major sporting events that serious organizers stand for in Norway must have ratified the WADA code – that is, it must be connected. It should be within the framework of their legislation, otherwise there will be no bike World Cup or youth Olympics or what it should be. Does the representative Rotevatn agree that it should also apply if we have professional boxing matches at a certain level in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e611	I totally agree that one should have a good anti-doping work in all sports, even within professional boxing. If the representative asks whether the Left will vote for the proposal in the Chamber, from among others. his own party, is the answer no, and that is among other things. because we agree on the basis given by Mr Harberg; that the proposal is a little strangely designed. And even though a lot of people have joined the code – and that’s good – it’s as far as I know, not that the Storting tells them to do it. In the committee setting, it is carefully written that there is a requirement for anti-doping work according to the World Anti-Doping Code, and it is good that it is there. Then I would also say to SV that I have previously registered also that SV's leaders have warned more of a freedom line from SV – one should not operate and concentrate on all sorts of things through prohibition and imposition, but let the freedom of the individual weigh a little more heavily on issues relating to themselves. It followed them up in the previous week by shaking to allow poker – and that was good. I thought it was a little strange that SV did not keep the same line today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e618	Well, we do, and I'll give you a closer look at my post, and I'll have a little bit more time than now. But since I have a question, I have to follow up. The reason why it may be important to look at anti-doping work in this sport is that the international federations that organize are not members of WADA, while all the major international sports events we participate in are, and because it is connected in Norway is not a member and has not ratified, but it is the other major sports organisers in Norway. It seemed to me quite simply to be an easy bypass of why there is an important point in this particular sport, and why there is a great debate about it now. My question is, is it simply like that left-wing voices against it because they've decided to support the government in this matter anyway, or are they some of us in fact, that there should be that kind of claim to boxing rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e627	As I explained, it is because we see – and as far as I can see, I have not heard that SV has said anything else – that the kind of regulation and ratification, which is the strange word a user in the proposal, is not imposed by the Storting when it applies to the other sports or associations, and then I think it is a little strange that the Storing should make an exception to it. So I think that the requirements and descriptions of anti-doping work requirements in the committee setting are sufficient. That being said, as far as I am aware, Stortinget will come back to a case of anti-doping work in sport. It's important, and it also means Left that it is. I thought in that case it would be natural to discuss this further there. So I'm going to say that I think it's good that we seem to get a plural in this room today to remove the explicit ban on professional boxing, so we're getting in line with the rest of the world. But then concrete assessments will be made in specific cases when there is an arrangement, and then the security will have to be secured in a good way, and I trust that it will be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e637	The representative Rotevatn highlights the individual’s freedom to do what you want in terms of safety regulations. In Norway, we have a number of conditions in which the freedom of individuals is limited precisely because we want to be able to secure the individual or the performer. For example, when driving a car, you have to wear a safety belt. But in this case, it's not allowed to use safety equipment, except for susp, it's legal, but helmets are not allowed. Does not the representative Rotevatn reflect that it is rather strange that protective equipment is not allowed to be used?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e642	No, it doesn't seem like the representative Rotevatn is "simplely strange," because if the undersigned and the representative Aasrud want to participate in a boxing match, we can do it when we want with the security equipment we need. Then it is that open-mindedly there is a limit to the individual's freedom, especially when it goes beyond other people involuntaryly. Then it's quite appropriate to have legal regulations around it. But there's one reason why it's called professional boxing. These are professional practitioners who have taken a deliberate choice, trained for many years, they are thoroughly tested, get a license, and so on one to participate in an activity where one is fully aware that it can cause a health risk, but he is not greater than the health risk in many other fully legal activities. That the Labour Party would like an explicit ban on that, I thought it was strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e649	I want to follow it up. In a number of cases, it is mandatory to have different types of protective equipment. Does the representative, Rotevatn, think that the ban on football leg skins, helmets in hockey, etc. should be removed, so that the personal freedom of the individual should be essential?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e654	Now, there is a continuous development in what security rules and requirements you have in different sports, and there is also a great deal of international governance. What's interesting to see, as others have pointed out, is that direction, among other things. the amateur boxing has gone away from the use of helmets on grown-ups, human trainers. I think I should get some people in this room to reflect a little on the Norwegian legislation, which would be even more difficult for Norwegian practitioners, for example. will participate in the World Cup, regardless of whether they engage in one or the other sport. The left has no suggestion in the Stortinget that the Stortinget should decide that it should be grounded or forbidden to use football clubs, nor are we going to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e661	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e664	Unlike the representative Harberg, I have been very interested in boxing through my adult life and growing up. I don't have a part of the exercise myself, I have a few of the natural intentions for it, but I think if you're very interested in sports, it's going to be a lot to not enjoy much of the big boxing that's got a lot of attention in Norway as well. That trainer I personally have been very fascinated by, called Theófilo Stevenson. He was Cuban, he won OL gold in heavyweight boxing in 1972, 1976 and 1980 – in itself a great achievement – and he won with a sovereignty. The world may have never seen a bigger boxing operator. Nevertheless, neither I, Teófilo Stevenson, Cecilia Breedhus, nor any other individual should control what a do in this matter, but a calm and business assessment of whether it's right or not. Then I want to take from what I would call an important liberal or left-liberal principle in the legacy of Immanuel Kant, through John Rawls and Jürgen Habermas, that one should have great freedom to do foolish things to himself, but it is necessary to limit the freedom to harm others. It's like in boxing two people go into a ring voluntarily, just like in other sports. Nevertheless, they would think that there should be no limit to what one can do to others, even if it is voluntary. Few, not even the biggest liberals, I think, are followers of sword fights or boundless damage to each other – if one in Norway calls it sport. That's why this becomes a judgment: Is sport organized so that you can avoid these things? Then this has been my best guess – after going through it calmly. And SV is not basically against pro boxing in Norway. But when you go through what our best health authorities nationally say based on international investigations, there are very serious health damage associated with this. It does not seem that the number of deaths or injuries in sport is high – there are many sports that have – but it is the long-term consequences. I refer again from the Norwegian Neurosurgical Association's investigation: ‘In a comprehensive study from England in which former professional fighters were examined after 50 years of age, it was demonstrated that 75 % of professional fighters had certain signs of brain damage following a professional boxing career of more than 10 years.’ There are three out of four – it must be called a significant risk. Then one has said that this was before, but the same unit writes on: ‘There is nothing to suggest that boxing has become less dangerous to the brain over the years. On the contrary; are the boxes stronger, they beat harder and have better condition. The number of professional deaths in the United States has remained almost unchanged since 1950-1960.’ [[when correcting for the number of active professional boxes and the number of matches]] It may be different in Europe, but I do not know that the majority provide evidence of the significant change in risk that a claimant has occurred in recent years. Since it's sports, it's also not that one can drive just as people want around in Norway. One tries to organize it collectively to ensure ethical standards, security standards and other things. There's once again my best idea that, like pro boxing per now is organized nationally and internationally, a not the same high standard as sports before the Sports Federation. Internationally, commercial organisations are behind them – not sports organisations. There is a lot of commercial importance in sport, but when the EBU arranges the shooter World Cup, it is EBU and connected as regards the rules and frameworks, and then try to attract and sell as much as possible. The commercial, large boxing organizers are not professional associations, but commercial companies. Nor do they have the same standards and regulations as Norwegian sports in other areas. within doping – which has our significant drawing up here. For SV, it could be an option to say that a canceler proffboxelova and regulate it like all other sports through the knockout rule. Here I believe that the government has shot itself in the foot, because one has made changes to the knockout regulation with the clear aim of facilitating professional boxing, not to ensure the best health and safety standards that different sports should have through that regulation. I also did not think that one has responded satisfactorily to the important anti-doping questions that came up here today. With this background, today we will vote against lifting the ban. It's a good point of view in the left-liberal and free tradition that I referred to in the introduction. I found it regrettable that the majority of people no longer take up the challenges of doping and health that at least I have as a basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e700	Professional boxing has been banned in Norway since 1981. The reason for the imposition of the ban in 1981 was the risk of medical adverse effects on the performer, but a lot has happened since then. Europe has a more stringent licensing system than the rest of the world, and there have been no deaths in Europe — I am aware — in professional boxing in almost 30 years. Today, medical surveillance is strict, including in the field of professional boxing, which it should be. In the world context, Norway is in an exclusive company with only a limited number of countries, including Iran and North Korea, which prohibits professional boxing. Since 2002, the knockout law has been in force. While the Professional Boxing Act states that professional boxing is prohibited, the knockout law allows all other organised combat activities where knockout is permitted on application. In order to obtain such an authorisation, fighting activity must comply with specific safety provisions. Among other things, there is a requirement for the commander in charge of the fight, a fighter with the right to stop a fight, a health certificate, quarantine regulations and anti-doping work in accordance with the WADA code. Let me elaborate on this, because I have come to realize that there has been some doubt as to what this means. WADA Code does not require sports and sports organisations outside the Olympic movement to sign the WADA Code. This also applies to potential applicants for the organisation of professional knockout activities. However, the WADA Code allows sports and sports organisations outside the Olympic movement to apply for the WADA Code. But – and it’s important to stress – it’s up to WADA to decide, there’s nothing the Norwegian dump can do. What the government wants to ensure through this paragraph of the regulation is that those who are to be allowed to arrange knockout activities actually have a functioning anti-doping work. So the government has taken into account what is proposed in the distributed proposal, a proposal that I think should be voted on, because it is wrong. That's exactly what we've taken into account in this regulation, that it has to be arranged for you to have a functioning anti-doping work. With the proposed law repealing the Professional Boxing Ban Act, the government wishes to facilitate professional boxing in Norway. The Professional Boxing Act and the knockout Act cover mainly the same activities, have the same geographical scope and equal penalties. The repeal of the Professional Boxing Act means that professional boxing is regulated by the knock-out and related regulations. It will then be possible to apply for organised competitions and demonstration or tournament matches, even in professional boxing. The government considers it appropriate to regulate all fighting activities that allow knockout, including professional boxing, by one and the same law. Such coordination will be elucidating, simplifying and ensuring non-discrimination between the various combat activities that allow knockout, irrespective of the way in which the activity is identified. Repeal of the Professional Boxing Act does not imply a release release. An independent name still needs to be applied for approval. This approval number will determine, on the basis of an application, whether the applicant complies with all the requirements of the legislation. Professional boxing, like other knockout activities, leads to damage risk, and I think it's worth stressing: like other knockout activities. The government considers that the risk of injury associated with professional boxing is not a sufficiently serious argument for maintaining a specific legal ban. Nor does the prohibition have any effect on the ability of Norwegian practitioners to exercise sport abroad. The intention to protect the health of practitioners through the ban is thus limited today. The government no longer believes that there is a basis for a special law on professional boxing. The Knockout Act already provides for similar activities in the context of specific security provisions. Professional boxing should therefore be possible within the framework of a coherent national legislation which ensures the essential safety requirements for the activity. On this basis, the Government proposes to repeal the Professional Boxing Prohibition Act. Just a few comments on the present proposal. The WADA code, to which reference is made, is not a mutual agreement between two parties but an international code. It is the IOC Code, signed by sports organisations, including the Norwegian Sports Association. So you don't ratify WADA's legislation, you sign it. And it's up to WADA to decide who's going to have the opportunity to sign it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e739	Of the associations that have boxing on their program, today only AIBA has such an agreement with WADA. If the European Boxing Union wants an approval, they must go to WADA and obtain such approval. But for some reason they have so far chosen not to do so. Now that the Council of State is pricing as a candidate for the board of directors of WADA, my question is: wouldn't it be natural for the government to demand that those who might arrange professional boxing matches in Norway should have such an agreement with WADA in place before they are allowed to arrange it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e744	WADA legislation does not oblige sports and sports organisations outside the Olympic movement to sign any WADA code. This also applies to potential applicants for the organisation of professional knockout activities in Norway. On the other hand, WADA's code allows sports and sports organisations outside the Olympic movement to apply to be subject to this WADA code, but it is up to WADA to decide. What is important for the government is to ensure that those who can apply, who may not be subject to this WADA code in Norway, at least undertake to sign on to carry out an anti-doping work in line with the WADA code required. That is what we have actually demanded in this regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e749	I would like to follow up on the previous questions, because if it is the word ‘ratify’ that the Council of State responds to in the proposal, it is likely to replace it with ‘approved’ and ‘sign WADA legislation’. But I don't understand why the Council of State can't confirm that she wants a sport in Norway that follows WADA's rules to point and point. The suspension refers to a British organisation, no one in Norway is aware of which approval schemes underpinned there, so why not demand that those to organise matches in Norway apply and have their legislation approved in WADA before starting work on introducing professional boxing in Norway? It had to be a minimum now that the Council of State is also to be a member of the board of directors of WADA.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e755	I thought the whole idea was that those who are going to do activity in Norway actually have anti-doping work that is in line with the code that applies internationally, which I thought was the whole point. When WADA says they can actually open up also to organisations that don't have it today, it's our appeal to these organisations that they have to do it, of course. But I make an absolute demand that if you want to arrange for example. a professional fight in Norway, one must be able to prove that one has an anti-doping work that is in line with the WADA code. It's in the regulation, and I think that's very clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e760	Then I have to ask the Council of State to explain to which other organisations – which are not WADA – have a system that corresponds to the WADA code and that can meet the strict requirements that the Council of State wants to impose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e765	As I said in my post, it's quite possible. If you want to arrange something in Norway, you can, for example: an international association that has already signed the WADA code, applies for it, or there may also be others who then get a documented anti-doping work, which is signed and in line with the code. They can do so by contacting e.g. Antidoping Norway. It is fully possible, but they must demonstrate that they are actually doing anti-doping work in line with this code in different areas, including: they must have an agreement with Antidoping Norway. They must ensure the legal certainty of the practitioners, they must have legislation dealing with these tests, the various tests being taken properly, and they must also have a test programme, both during competition and before and after competition, which shows that they are taking the necessary tests. These are just some of the requirements that are in the WADA code, and they have to be able to prove that if you are going to have such fights in Norway, you also have to be able to prove that you are.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e770	It became more and more unclear to me. When the Council of State says that it is Antidoping Norway that can carry out these tests, my question is: Can Antidoping Norway impose e.g. the reporting obligation for non-resident operators to box in Norway? Would it be possible to impose controlled tests during the training period if you are a trainee who is to be opposed to a Norwegian trainee and are to have battles in Norway? Because that is the whole point: not only are the Norwegian practitioners subject to anti-doping legislation; the opponents must be subject to the same rules, and I do not understand why the Council of State does not want to impose the same requirements as any other member-based sport in Norway is subject to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e777	I would like to stress very strongly that if you are to arrange professional boxing in Norway, which can now be allowed by repealing this Professional Boxing Act, there are two possibilities: either you must have signed this WADA code, or you must have an agreement with Antidoping Norway, which means – as we have requested in this regulation – that those who are to be allowed to arrange knockout activities actually have anti-doping work. I used three examples of what must be the basis for that anti-doping work, and that's what we demand. I stress again that Norway has no authority to tell who would be able to be accepted through this WADA code. It's actually WADA itself that can give permission to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e784	What I thought was positive in the post of the Council of State was that, to the extent that it did the same thing as I did – a more social approach to it, where one should balance the freedom of two people to be able to pursue a sport volunteer in Norway, against the fact that society still has a responsibility for which health damage one does. But then she drew another conclusion. But I'm still a little uncertain as to what the change that must have happened in the last decade, and the consequences of it, has been built on, because there have been several European studies on the major delays – and I stress it: late injuries – that are special for boxing and for some other knockouts. So I wonder, can the Council of State identify which studies show a significant decline in such delays now, relative to what it was like a decade or two ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e791	I think it is incredibly important to stress that there is a certain risk of participating in knockout activities. That's for sure. It is also the case that the safety provisions of the regulation currently in place should reduce — but cannot eliminate — the risk of injury. In the proposed amendment to the knock-out regulation to which several references are made, this implies a certain decoration of certain provisions. At the same time, however, it has been clarified that anti-doping provisions should be in line with developments in the international anti-doping legislation. You can never get there that you can say that this is completely risk-free. In fact, it is not today for other types of knockout activities that are regulated under the knockout regulation. For me, it is a mystery that both the Workers' Party and the SV believe that it is less harmful to be beaten in the head by someone who calls himself amateur boxes or kickboxes, than by one who calls himself professional boxes. The damage can happen, you can't eliminate that damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e803	No one from this pulpit has claimed that it is less harmful. I am grateful for the answer, but the Council of State did not respond to what I asked for. Everyone is aware that there is a certain risk, but what I asked for was evidence for what several speakers, including themselves, have said: there have been major changes in sport in Europe over the last decade. The representative Harberg said that it has changed the damage significantly in a positive direction. We have referred to several studies that show a significant risk of delayed damage. We're talking about three out of four in one of those studies, which is a sensational high number. So this may have changed in more recent studies, and that we have a different picture, but in that case I'm just asking the Council to present what documentation it is based on, where the claims come from, and what investigations we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e810	As I said at the outset, in recent years, there have actually been no identified deaths in Europe as a result of pro-boking. I believe that by the provisions that Norway has introduced at least – let me focus on them – it is quite clear that we are currently making strict rules in the knockout regulation to help reduce the risk of harm. That must be what we politicians are actually concerned about: helping to help reduce the risk of the damage actually happening. You can't eliminate this, I think we can actually agree on that, but at least you can help to reduce the damage. There is nothing to hide from the fact that this has become more and more international, and that more and more people are also concerned about being able to participate in the implementation of provisions that can also contribute to reducing the risk of harm. At least in Norway, we are concerned about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e817	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e823	Bob Dylan wrote the song "Who Killed Davey Moore". In a little bit, Dylan can make a new verse about the Norwegian government. Today we debate one or two for the brain. Some people are afraid of hitting the brain – others are not. They should have been. One of the dimensions of pro boxing is to hit the opponent so hard in the head that he falls over the end and is unable to stand upright after 10 seconds. It has serious consequences for brain functions – we know that health professionals warn against. In today's Bergen's Official Journal, Eirik Vikane, a specialist and athlete at Haukeland University Hospital, declares the following: «The impact in boxing is equivalent to being hit by a six-kilogram bowling ball for more than 30 km/h. In the ring, you're paid to damage your opponent's brain." Work on removing the ban on professional boxing has been a high priority, we have heard the Council of State say. ‘This is great news’ said Cecilia Breekhus to the NRK on 9 April. For the brain, on the other hand, this is not brilliant news. It should not surprise anyone that brain damage is common in professional boxers. The question is whether, as a society, we are going to commit serious harm to human beings. Although sport has changed and become somewhat safer — which may make it difficult to compare studies from different periods of time — a number of recent studies demonstrate a high incidence of serious brain damage, including: increased brain pressure, cerebral bleeding, prolonged outcome of neurophysiological tests, disorders such as Alzheimer’s disease, other dementias and Parkinson’s disease in pro-boxers. More than half the professionals with a career of five years or more are developing cognitive and emotional changes due to permanent brain damage and sensitisation. This usually occurs after you have reached the age of 50. In boxing, it is prohibited to hit under the belt site – likely to spare the nobler parts. It's a cross of thought that the subworld is ranked higher than the brain of this sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e843	I will not say that I am the representative of the ‘nobler parts’. I'm a representative of the Norwegian people. Boxing is a sport that dates from ancient times. Boxing was also called the noble art of self-defense. Boxing is a big sport around the world. Boxing is big in Norway, and we have honoured our heroes, Breckhus and Tangstad. Norway has many world champion belts that we are proud of. Nor does Norway's best boxer, Cecilia Breckhus, hide that she will be happy and that it will be good to be able to practice her sport at home. But the fact that she had previously risked being prosecuted has been difficult for her, and I understand that. But it really surprises me that the top-notch sport and those who have offices at Ullevål Stadium seem to have been fine that the Norwegian professionals have been allowed to train in Norway, and that it has been okay to have been able to use the Top-notch sports centre as part of that environment. Where are the principles? Boxing is not a sport for everyone – especially for those of us sitting here in the hall, little puzzles and ping-pong politicians. No, we do not have the understanding that these great sportsmen have for this sport. In Norway, it was politically discussed in this Chamber if we were to have color television. We politicians wanted to be part of the decision-making process. We have also been involved in discussing whether we should allow skateboarding. Now there are forces in this room that even want to shut down the Internet, because you don't want to have foreign gaming companies. Yes, North Korea, Cuba and Iran also believe that they have good political arguments to stop pro boxing. Norway is heading in the right direction. If we now lift the ban, we can participate and influence sport, as we also do – at least want to do – in many other areas: health, equipment, doping, combat fixation, to name a few. Since 1981, sport has evolved strongly in terms of both medical and follow-up activities. We have many talents within many sports in Norway, who participate at municipal level, circuit level, in the NM, in the World Cup and at other types of events around the world, but who want to evolve even more, and who want to go even further in their own sport and become a professional. Getting even better in their own sport also applies to our great talents in boxing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e860	We all remember the picture of the Swedish professional who was seriously injured in boxing a year ago. It made a strong impression – at least on me. And you can ask yourself if it's right to allow a sport that aims to knock out others with purpose and purpose. The arguments for opening up professional boxing should be weighed against the medical consequences for the performer. The followers minimize this and say that it must be up to each one of them to do what one will do, and that other sportsmen also have injuries. I have heard comparisons with riding a horse as a risk sport. But after what I know, the difference is pretty big. The aim of horse sports is to stay on the horse back, with a mandatory helmet mill. You don't fall off on purpose. In boxing, it's different: the goal is to disable the opponent. And as a nurse, I hear with interest the technical warnings as well, which I believe are strong and worth listening to. The Norwegian Neurosurgical Association, the Medical Association and the Health Directorate, which we tend to listen to when we want good advice, have clear messages. This is advice that the Right Party and the Advance Party choose to ignore or minimize completely. It's serious. Injury in the head, face, hand and stomach region is some of what they pulled out as normal damage. They also showed that there is less damage for amateurs than for professional boxers, and that stronger boxers, with harder punches, make boxing even more dangerous than before in the case of head injuries. The risk increases with the length of the career, the number of strokes and the number of matches, and we've heard that many late injuries come after one has become 50 years. The so-called boxing thing is well-known, and we've seen good examples of it. A new brain study from the United States showed that out of seven professional fighters, six had the most serious degree of boxing. Therefore, the Medical Association warns against minimizing concussions, because new studies show that it can take up to four months before you are healthy. And even if a practitioner knows well, the neurological consequences will be great. That's why I'm against opening for pro boxing. I'm listening to the trade unions. I choose to listen to them, because we usually listen to them when we want the good advice, but not here. I ask for the same thing as the SV representative asked: Can the Council of State respond to where the evidence is that there is less damage in Europe now? Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e877	The Labour Party has taken a position on this matter as to whether there are serious enough reasons to change the legislation that is currently in force. Our conclusion has been made clear, and it is based on a clear feedback from the medical environment. I'm not a doctor, but getting a six-kilogram bowling ball, coming at you for 30 km/h, in your head, means you're being exposed to a very high health risk. Furthermore, we note that the Council of State could not respond to evidence that there has been a lower risk in the last few years of European professionalisation. We are also very pleased that Norwegian sport is so clear on its values and lives up to them, as they do in this matter: ethically sound top sports, based on health, fair play, anti-doping and anti-corruption. The work party has always been a supporter of the sport, and the martial arts have their place within the field of sport. Nor can we see that there has been a decrease in the recruitment of the martial arts. But the martial arts, as I know them, have been very clear that when you first exercise them, you cannot abuse the knowledge and skills you get to harm others. This is where the boundary goes. When it comes to pro boxing, it just means harming the counterparty. It has previously been referred to a sports doctor and a specialist in rehabilitation, who is speaking in the Official Journal of today, and he says that professional boxing is to compare with brain cracking. It's about rewarding it to damage your opponent's brain. There goes the clear limit in martial arts, which is a great sport when it is practiced within the framework that we see in Norway, as opposed to pro boxing. It is also a little strange to argue that when you are a sportsman, you are exposed to health risks. It's clear that a lot of sportsmen have this in themselves to blow up their own boundaries and try to test them out. Voss Extremsportveko is just an example of that, but it does not mean harm to others. The working party is proud that we have a sport movement that is so clear and that lives up to its values. And Norway can, in this case, as in many other cases, be clear and show the way for the rest of the world and follow the rules we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e894	We are chosen to the Storting with varied life experience and complement each other. My experience is from the health services in Norway, and I strongly remember a brother-in-law who came over a fillet case in a fight. One blow hits the tin. Some pain, slow bleeding, some tiredness that becomes sleep, and death occurs during the night. I mean it's like this: we're made with thick legs on top of the head, but the leg is thin as two layers of flat bread in the head. That's the way it is. It hasn't been since the morning that we're supposed to hit each other in the head. That's why I think it's nice when boxing becomes politics with passion for the Right and the Advance Party, with proud opinionators. Otherwise in life, we express pride, among other things. in the wishes of our children: I hope my child will contribute to peace and reconciliation; I hope my child becomes a footballer; I hope my child will be happy. I've never heard mothers and fathers say about their hopeful: I hope my child will build competence in beating an peers in the head and then make money on it. This debate has reviewed the history of the matter and the policy, reviewed the doping situation, legislation before, and perhaps tomorrow, rules and research. But I mean it all starts with the beginning. We never meant to hit each other in the head. That's why I don't want my political project to work for it. On the contrary, I will work towards it, sometimes with small steps and sometimes with slightly larger steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e903	I think this has been an interesting debate, which also shows a clear distinction in this Chamber. There is a clear distinction between those who want to ban what is dangerous – one knows best for others – and the other, the majority fortunately, who think that free people in a free country should be able to make free choices. There is no doubt that boxing and pro boxing are particularly dangerous and present a risk of injury. That's not what we're discussing. Because in a free country, free people have to make their free choices, whether it's for participation in Voss Extremsportveko, a parachute on their backs and throw themselves out of a mountain in the West, or participate in a professional boxing game. I record that there is a large minority who think they know best for others, and that things that constitute a certain danger should be banned. Value bases have also been mentioned. One would like to say that there is a different value base between those who think that a not having good enough arguments for the prohibition, and those who think that a not having good enough arguments to allow it. So anyway, Norway is in an exclusive club after Sweden lifted the ban in 2007. Cuba lifted the ban on pro-boking in 2013. According to Wikipedia, only two countries, Norway and North Korea, still have a ban on pro boxing. It has also been mentioned in this debate that Iran has such a ban. In Iran, I haven't been. In North Korea, on the other hand, I have been on vacation. I didn't think the value base that North Korea stands for in other areas is something to want. I also did not think we should look at North Korea in this matter. As I said, this has been an interesting and good debate, and I have become even more over-exploited now than at the start of the debate, that it is right to lift this ban. Norwegian boxers are going to box anyway, pros are going to box anyway. What is the question is whether this is going to happen abroad, or whether it's going to happen in Norway. I haven't heard anyone say that boxing in Norway is more dangerous than boxing abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e916	There is reason to remind the Storting about the purpose of both profboxelova and knockout vows. The main objective is to take care of the safety and health of the practitioners. The government will abolish the prohibition of professional boxing. This was already reported in the Sundvolden statement. The representative Morten Stordalen from the Progress Party says in the debate that now one has to stop discussing politics in this matter, but who starts? Professional boxing has been the symbol of the government's so-called freedom reform, where one should remove unnecessary and bureaucratic bans, such as bans on Segway, poker and pro-boking, but with pro-boking when fighting against new and dangerous heights. In the proposition, the department writes the following: ‘The Ministry is aware that professional boxing, similar to other sports, poses a risk of injury.’ That the government here equates the risk of damage from professional boxing with other sports articles, I think I am unprovoked. In professional boxing, damage is the very purpose. In addition, write the department: ‘However, the Ministry’s assessment is that the risk of injury associated with professional boxing is not a sufficiently serious argument for maintaining a legal ban.’ But what are the heavy arguments for the Left and the Government, if not clear feedback from the medical profession and the Norwegian Sports Association that this is not advisable? Both the Medical Association and the Norwegian Association for Sports Medicine and Physical Activity strongly recommend a total ban on martial arts where knockout is permitted, as well as the liberalisation of the regulation. The approval authority clarifies that internationally published medical research supports regulation of combat activity in order to limit damage to practitioners. The lifting of profboxes and the modification of the knockout code are not based on health arguments but on a political desire to allow profboxing. In its comments, the Right Party and the Progress Party state that a regulatory framework should provide for safe frameworks and security measures, including: approved judges and at least two approved games, where the one shall be ringside ‘at any time during the fight and be immediately available after the battle’. But both the Medical Association and the Norwegian association for sports medicine and physical activity are just warning against the belief that only qualified personnel are present during the event, part of the damage that may occur will be reduced. But the most frequent injuries are not acute; they occur after time and are difficult to register immediately. This proposal is both unwise, incomprehensible and will be adopted by hardly any majority of them. The left, which is also not present in the Chamber during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e946	It was difficult not to take the floor in this matter after listening to the debate. The representative Health said we're going to the Stortinget with different experience. His experience was from the health sector. My experience is from boxing. I'm amazed at a part that's being said here. They compare martial arts and professional boxing and say that there is a big difference. There is a big difference: in some martial arts you learn different battles, kicks and grips to harmless the opponent. The first thing you learn in boxing is to defend yourself. The first thing you learn is to avoid being hit, pairing and avoiding the blows that are coming. That's why, as the representative Thomsen said, it's called the noble art of self-defense, because that's what boxing is all about. I'm not going to suggest that in professional boxing, in particular, it's some damage, on the same line as ice hockey, football and alpine. The main point is that when boxing, you have to be so good, and in such a good physical form, that you can avoid the damage that may occur – you have to avoid getting hit. It's not a goal in itself to beat the opponent like this and not be able to stand up, as it was said here. You actually get the same number of points to hit the body. The boxes that receive the greatest honor and respect in the environment are those that are technically good fighters – those in good shape, fast and capable of picking points by meeting the opponent, while being so good that they can avoid being hit themselves. That's the whole point. I am a little surprised when a blow from a boxer's hand is compared to being hit by a bowling ball in my head. This is not a realistic comparison. The boxing sport is a tough sport – a sport that requires its own from the practitioners. That Norway should be one of the few countries in the world that do not allow top athletes to play their sport in their home country, I think is a tragedy. I think it's a tragedy that the world's best female boxers can't be allowed to play their sport in Norway and show the Norwegian people at home that she's the best boxer in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e957	This is a matter that many have been waiting for, and which is now finally going up to treatment. It is not a matter of satisfying combat fixation and doping, for which some opponents want to have it, but it is a matter of giving equal conditions to those who will exercise their sport as a professional performer. There's been a lot of focus on boxing being about punching, but it's just as much about being good at defending itself. What's also fundamental in this case is that this, like in any other mindset, is something you do on a completely voluntary basis. So no one has to be forced to go up in the boxing. The lifting of the law against professional boxing is based on the fact that the individual perpetrator himself takes the risk of injury that can be inflicted, and that those who want to take their sport at a higher level than amateur boxing will have the opportunity to do so, in line with other sports. Boxing, like many other top-level sportsmen, has a risk. Nor do we have a law that says that super-G or outside is to be banned because of the risk it entails, while sludge may be allowed, or that procycling is to be banned because of all the doping scandals. Then it should be said that the Progress Party will continue to work actively to combat doping and fighting fixation, but does not see it as a solution to prohibit a single sport. The health risk is used as an argument in this case. One might say that a medical professional community with great certainty can determine that smoking over a long period of time is also a major health risk, but there are probably not so many parties here today who are in favour of a legal ban on this. The case is that one can exercise one's sport in the same way as other practitioners internationally. Everyone who's interested in sports, I think I understand how much it means to be able to practice it at home and take advantage of it. I therefore hope that after today's vote we can fulfill the dream of many trailers and active fighters by allowing professional boxing in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e974	I asked for the word to express one opinion, and it is that when the representative Hagesetter connects the resistance to pro-boking against the culture of the North Korean society – I may be clubbed for this – I believe that this is politically irreproachable argument. It doesn't belong in this room, and that's why I took the floor. Because it is trying to stamp a political argument that is about a sport in Norway, in a way that almost has to be an expression of the fact that the representative does not have complete control over what he himself says. What matters is, and what has been going on is what concerns the nerves of what the representative Health said. I hear the argument all the time, and it's possible to talk a little bit past each other, but comparing professional boxing with sluggishness, which was just done here in the pulpit, is obviously also a sought-after argument, because in slumbers it's not that you have to knock out an opponent by turning him in the air. There's a danger that you can do this and hurt yourself, it's in many minds, it's in our entire daily life, but the nerve here is that you have to hurt an opponent so that he can't stand on his legs, and that it's part of a sport that's also part of an industry. So we can ask ourselves, in 2014: Is this expression of civilization – in an open, democratic, modern European country? No, of course it's not, and I think there's a slight weakness in this argument. The Minister of Culture, sitting here, should take responsibility for the culture of society and civilised development and see that this challenges exactly that, that this is a step back in this regard, and not be so blinded by the desire to satisfy the populist desire of the Progress Party to take these measures precisely to create another cultural development in society. I said that in the cultural debate, and I repeat it: where is Right Value Conservatism? This had never been accepted by Kåre Willoch, but liberalism has taken over in the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e985	We have challenged the government parties on the part of the Workers' Party to say something about their knowledge base in order to make the proposals that they have made today, and we have heard very little. But I want to refer from a look-up in VG 11 March this year. It says: ‘The sense of dying in a professional boxing game is much greater today. It is almost ten times more dangerous to go in the professional boxing ring than in the 1920s in terms of the number of matches and the number of fighters, says neurosurgeon Ingunn Rise Churchby." Rise Kirkeby is also a member of the Knockout denominator, and it should be a person who has a certain thing on what she says. But, as I said, we haven't heard anything else here today but that you've visited some book clubs and talked to some boxers when you're trying to document the adverse effects of boxing. So I want to comment on what has been the round of some of the replacements here today. Because we have submitted a proposal, and I note that both Svein Harberg from the Right and the Council of State are trying to make that proposal for a legal issue as to whether the word ‘ratify’ can be used in such a proposal. But that's not what this is about. When the Council of State repeatedly stands on the pulpit and says that no one can be charged with being a member of WADA, we also understand that, but what is the point of this proposal, is that those who are going to organise what seems to be a majority here today must behave like this and work so that they are approved by WADA, the organisation in which the Council of State is now to enter the board. That's the whole point. We also understand very well that the Norwegian growth cannot oblige anyone to become a member of an international organisation like WADA. And as of today, it is Norway's sports association, which is a large membership organisation, which has WADA approval for all its special federations and underlying organisations, including the Norwegian Autosports Association. But the difference is that what we're talking about here isn't going to be a membership-based organization, that's what Norway's Professional Boxing Association said at the hearing. There are commercial actors going in here, and they can't similarly submit to a sports democracy, as the rest of sports Norway is. Therefore, we believe that it is absolutely essential that the Council of State not only ensure that some type of recognition tool is used, but we believe that those who are going to do sports in Norway should meet the requirements of WADA. That is why we want to maintain the proposal we have put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1002	This debate was probably something that could be predicted in advance. As I said in my main post, I hoped that the debate would become more factual, and I hoped that one would discuss, just for sports reasons, in the interests of people else who had to listen to and follow the debate, and not make claims of wrongs in such a debate. The Labour Party is considered to be a governance party that wants knowledge-based, fact-based information before making decisions, and then you mix what I call apples and pears into the debate with not wanting to see the rules you have in Europe isolated and internal, but uses, among other things. relationship in the report of the neurosurgeon Kirkeby. I've also read it, and I've also challenged Kirkeby in the past. Why do regulations in the United States and Asia — with 139 deaths — mix and take them into Norwegian and European context? Why do you do that? The report is quite correct in terms of what's going on in the United States, and what's going on in Asia, but now we're in Europe, and that's why I don't believe in it. In my profession as a doctor, it was said by the representative of Health, I have seen fighting between people. Yes, but that's a reason why you use gloves in this boxing game, you don't hit with just fists. When you say the purpose is to beat and damage the opponent, it's time to get away from the Rocky movie from 1976. So that's not how it happens. You're not allowed to turn on the side of your head. Why isn't that? Yes, because it's dangerous. It's not allowed. It is not allowed to hit under the belt. No, because it's dangerous. It's not allowed. It is not the purpose to harm the opponent. No, as I said in the main post, most matches are decided on technical knockouts, on points – not knockouts, but points, dear big ones. Of course, anti-doping work – as it says in the case – is to be carried out under the WADA Code. So, like everyone else, you have to get tested before fighting, under and after. When you start talking about anti-corruption, it sounds like you're using a claim from the Sports Association that they only have from the media, where you said there was organized crime in boxing. You couldn't document it, because you didn't have documentation, you had read it in some media. This now uses the Working Party – the steering party – as a witness of truth. That's what I think is special, and I think it's sad considering the debate – maybe extra looking into sports, anyone who practices sports, and who wants to be able to exercise it on Norwegian soil. The only difference between yes and no today is that they can box at home in Norway. It's not going to be more or less dangerous for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1013	As I said in my previous post, the whole purpose of the proposal to repeal the Professional Boxing Act is precisely to facilitate professional boxing in Norway. The government is aware that professional boxing and other knockout activities involve damage risk, I don't think we should disagree about it. Within the safety requirements set, it will be up to the individual to exercise whether he or she wishes to face the risk of injury arising from that activity. The government believes that the risk of injury is not a sufficiently serious argument for maintaining a legal ban, and that is why we have said that we want to lift it. The exercise of professional boxing should be possible within the framework of a coherent national legislation, and we do so, which ensures essential safety requirements for the activity through, inter alia, the provision of services. The knockout law and the knockout regulation. I think it's important for us to be aware that it's possible to get to. After all, I react strongly when I hear comments from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal. One should almost think that it was not the case today that there are activities regulated under the knockout regulation. This is precisely why it works as it is today; it has to be a clear code for when, if necessary, an activity that is taking place – which is legal in Norway today and which has been legal in Norway for many years – in order to avoid harm. I think it is very important that we also consider that the activities registered in Norway today, which are subject to the knock-out regulation, mean that there is legislation that ensures safety. Again, I also have to ask questions as to whether it is today that the Workers' Party – and, to some extent, others – believes that it is better to be beaten in the head by someone who calls himself an amateur than by someone who calls himself a professional, whom I used as an example. I also think it's very strange the way the Workers' Party argues. It can almost sound like it's only now that it's possible to knock out. As I have underlined, the knockout rule has worked for many years, so this has been allowed. Knockout really means having the opportunity to knock someone out. That's exactly why there are so strict rules in the knockout regulation: to prevent you from getting hurt. And then back to the eternal question about this WADA code. I just repeat that the government is trying with this change in the regulation that we have now introduced is imposing on those who might have to arrange something in Norway, to have an approved anti-doping work in line with the WADA code.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1024	The question of allowing professional boxing in Norway stands for me as a very important matter. It stands for me as a very important thing, because it's a very important symbolic thing. For me, it's a symbolic thing about the direction we're going to take in the Great Britain as regards the development of what many call a cultural nation. The fact that no one has doubted is that this poses a very high risk of health damage. The whole point is, of course, to turn off your opponent, put the opponent out physically. Then you don't have to argue much about the risk of health damage. As the discussion goes here, one sees that the matter itself is actually a symbol of the ideological direction that has a majority here in the hall. I am not surprised that the Progress Party is in favour of this. I think that's quite natural, that's part of the brand for the Progress Party. It's not enough to see pro boxing from abroad on television, one will experience it in their community. It's quite natural, it's part of the identity of the Progress Party. In the case of the right hand side, more people have been interested in what has happened. Where are the value conservatives in the right? It is a strong sign to me that the value conservatives are now pushed back so far that the economic liberals to the degrees have come to the driver's seat. But my main point is, where's the left? Well, the Left is represented by the representative Rotevatn, one of the most obvious economic liberals in the Left, who, in many respects, are highly agitated for: away with regulation. It's also very logical that the representative Rotevatn represents that position. But where is the Social Liberal Left? Does the Left no longer have a single social liberal voice here in the Storting? If the result of the vote is that there is not a single social liberal vote in the Left, there is a very clarifying vote on what is now the situation in the party that has previously presented itself as the essential and most important social liberal party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1039	The reason I took the floor now is because I was able to upset the representative Martin Kolberg with what I said about North Korea, as one of three countries that today has banned pro-boking. What I said about North Korea is that they have a different value base than Norway. I can repeat that, because the value base of North Korea is a value base that we don't have in Norway, and that we don't want in Norway either. I haven't said that if we don't get the ban on pro boxing, Norway will be like North Korea – in no way, of course. So in North Korea, you have a thought that you should ban it. Detailed information on this feature is needed for the built-in user. Segway is not allowed, poker is not allowed. Professional boxing is not allowed, nor is the Internet allowed. Each of these little things may not matter that much, but in some cases, the society of North Korea is a completely different society than any other society we know in the world, and although the leadership of North Korea obviously has good reasons to forbid these things – not good, but rational reasons – and to guide the people in detail, they have a way of thinking that the inhabitants are for the state, and not the other way around. I think it should be a sobering thought that apart from Norway, only Iran and North Korea have banned pro-boking, while there are 204 countries that have allowed it. When Norway allows this, there will be 205 countries that have allowed it, and two countries that have not allowed it. Then we have to ask the question: is it Iran and North Korea that are right, or is it the 205 countries – soon, when Norway is there – that are right? It seemed to me to be a wake-up call for the great minority in this room that we think we should ban pro boxing. I also want to repeat what I said, that in a free country, with free inhabitants, it is free to make choices that we would not do ourselves – I would not have taken on a parachute and threw myself outside a mountain creek in the West. I would also not have entered a boxing. But I want to allow it anyway, and I thought we should accept that others make choices other than those we would have made ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1050	Lundtigen suggested that this was an important signal matter – yes, we understand that, because this matter has taken a long time, and there are many who have taken the word, with different starting points, and that is okay, but it may not be quite in relation to the amount we are talking about. So for the last 15 to 20 years, there have been seven to eight professional fighters in this country. It's hard to become a professional boxer, they're doing sports, they're allowed to practice here in the country, they're allowed to do everything but fights, they have to go abroad, but there's not one more person who is exposed to anything about health if they're boxing at home instead of abroad. That perspective seems to me to have been a little bit absent. Then I have respect that someone has landed at a different point of view in the matter, that's okay enough. Parts of the debate have been strange, because we haven't spent so much time discussing what we knew in advance that we disagreed about. But what we agree on, we've spent a long time on, the anti-doping work that all the parties are engaged in, which all the parties want, and which the Council of State has repeated several times, is within what is now done to facilitate that professional boxers can box in Norway, namely a demand for anti-doping work similar to what WADA puts up. So it's taken care of, both members of the government of Stortinget have said that we will do this, it's only the ban on professional fighting in boxing in Norway that we're changing now. Then I record that there is something that for me is a little unclear about WADA and what is thought about Norway's Sports Association, ratification and what it should be. When you talk to Antidoping Norway and also the central people of the Sports Association, I get at least confirmation – even during the debate – that the proposal that is on the table is strange. Firstly, we have pointed out that the word ‘ratification’ is strange in this context, and we believe it is wrong. Secondly, when you talk about all the organizers of boxing matches in Norway, then one says that those who have previously been mentioned as commercial players are suddenly going to "ratify" WADA, rather than look at what can take care of the boxes here, and that we invite to do something together. We have a common intention, but there are major uncertainties about the proposal, which is why it is difficult to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1059	I'll try to be brief, but it was the representative Stordalen who made me take the floor. The representative Stordalen must start to run out of arguments when he gives me and the Workers' Party completely different opinions than what has been presented in this Chamber. We have not claimed that there is anything criminal or anything else with boxing, but we have said that we want an active work against fighting fixation. I think the representative Stordalen should be so good in his argument that he does not confuse those arguments. State councils ask why it's okay to be beaten in your head as an amateur, but not as a professional. Then you can ask the question: why do you have different rules for female and male amateurs? It is also a rather difficult argument for me to follow. It is also claimed here that the documentation available on the site comes from anywhere else. There is nothing happening in Europe that is worrying. Then I think that's reason to remember the pictures we saw when Frida Wallberg had brain bleeding in Sweden a short time ago. It was not nice, nor was it something I want us to see in Norway. It is the kind of activity that we should not have in Norway. Norway, together with a two–three other countries, is the only country that has a ban on pro-boking. Yes, fortunately, we in Norway have gone ahead in some areas. We have a monopoly on wine, and there aren't very many other countries that have it. We have bans on alcohol advertising, we have bans on advertising that targets children. Fortunately, we have done this, because we believe that this is right in terms of the health damage that can be caused to people. That is why we are going to vote against repealing the Professional Boxing Act, because there is no evidence that there is no health damage, and that there are not going to be some unfortunate episodes – episodes we believe we can prevent if we oppose the pressure that is now being put in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1074	I also have to take the floor at the end of the day, I won't be going on for long. But I respond to the fact that the representative Morten Stordalen places those who disagree with him in a booth where you are not concerned about the facts. The representative of Stordalen began his last speech by saying that he had hoped that this debate would be factually based. What I really hear Morten Stordalen say is that he had hoped that everyone would agree with him and in the government's factual description. But it's not like that. It must then be legitimate to be able to use medical facts in a debate like this. When the Christian People's Party has the country where we are, it's because we've listened to the medical advisory bodies, including the Health Directorate, to which the government in this case has chosen not to listen, i.e. their own trades directorate has not been listened. This is also part of the evidence that must be at the bottom of a decision to be taken today. The Christian People's Party weighs the medical facts so heavily that we can't help opening up to pro boxing in Norway. Finally, in the case of the representative Stordalen said that we have to get away from these Rocky movies, I just have to remind him that Sylvester Stallone, who played Rocky, was not a professional boxer, he was an actor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1083	The representative of Morten Stordalen has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1086	When I take the floor now, it is to comment on what the representative Aasrud said that I could not attach to the Workers' Party opinions they did not have. On page 4 of the setting - it is public - the Workers' Party notes: ‘The fight against doping and combat fixation and manipulation is crucial for the future of sport. Professional boxing further challenges with its unorganised activities.’ In addition, the Labour Party has said from the pulpit that they support the sports union's assessments and support the sport. I quote from the Sports Association's hearing opinion: ‘Organised crime Doping and fighting fixation: it is obvious that there is no good overview of neither doping nor combat fixation in professional boxing. It is a matter which is naturally kept hidden and which is not exposed without active intervention by independent bodies. However, it is well known from the media that both doping and fighting fixation are closely related to environments associated with organised crime.’ That is, in fact, what the Labour Party has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1103	I did not intend to take the floor in this matter, but I could not leave it. The Progress Party has previously proposed to lift this ban – in 1990, 1995, 1997, 2007, 2010 and 2011 – and we have always been alone in believing this, but today’s debate shows that the ban imposed in 1981 will now fall. I have even trained a little boxing with a Norwegian champion in boxing, Magne Adolfsen, from my home municipality, Wittsøy, and I have followed eagerly on major matches around the world when Mike Tyson, Ole Klemetsen, Cecilia Brekkhus and Manny Pacquiao have booked. There is no doubt that there is a health risk associated with boxing, as in so many other sports. But sport is chosen on a voluntary basis, and it does not go beyond a third person – only those who participate. It is obvious to everyone that there is a danger associated with this. Of course it is. They hit each other. They hit the body hard and the head hard. Many opponents of professional boxing are concerned with just this, that they hit each other in the head. Nevertheless, in Norway we allow amateur boxing, judo, karate and kickboxing – they have as many blows, and also kick their heads, and I have not heard of anyone wanting to ban this. It might also be worth mentioning that rugby has head injuries on the same line as professional boxing. Many of the representatives in the room today have used brain-cracking as an argument, but since it's not a general ban on Nordics from participating in pro-boking abroad, they think that brain-cracking is quite right, just doing it abroad. It is in that case double morals, but it is not surprising that the double morals flourish, as it also did in September 2012 when the then Minister of Culture Hadia Tajik congratulated Cecilia Brekkhus on a good performance. It's kind of like when the Jok & Valentines sing "but only on screen and only when we win". And as the rapporteur has said, we will not see this in Norway, but we can see it on the screen. So if we're just going to allow harmless sportswear, we're just going to be left with chess and snooks. I look forward to the Storting adopting this today, and that professional boxing will be legal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1120	When an untruth is repeated many times enough, it becomes an established truth. We have heard examples of this in this room today. It is repeated repeatedly that the point of the boxing is to turn off, turn on and turn on your opponent so that he cannot stand on his legs. That's not the point of boxing. I'll repeat that again. The point of boxing is to hit the opponent at points, and then to score points. It is not allowed to hit the back, it is not allowed to hit the back of the head, it is not allowed to hit the back of the head, and it is not allowed to hit the side of the body, i.e. hit the kidneys – it is only allowed to hit the front of an opponent. It is also not allowed to hit under the belt. If you can score enough points, you win the game. In 1903 a man named Otto Wessel von Porat was born. He was Norway's largest boxer, and he's still Norway's largest boxer. He took an Olympic medal in 1924, and in 1926 he started his professional career. He moved to the United States. He went 53 professional matches. In one of the big fights he met one who was called the 'Argentinian bull'. He was called Porzio and weighed over 30 kg more than von Porat and was a punching machine of dimensions. Otto von Porat made this boxer happy and used to point out, because he was a technically good boxer, and that's the point of boxing, that's to be technically good, because then you avoid punching, you can hit the opponent, and you win on points. When von Porat died, he was 79 years old, and he had no brain damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1130	After following the debate today and hearing all the arguments about why not allow professional boxing, many claims have been made. There have been many claims that this should be one of the most dangerous sports to compete with. It's not like that. Boxing is a well-organized sport. There are hardly any other sports there, among others. judges are as close to the practitioners as in this sport. It's constantly being followed. In addition to the ring judge, other judges shall sit and accompany you. They should then consider what has happened inside the ring. In addition, there is a medical support device in relation to these fights that is very large and extensive, precisely in order to prevent harm. As the representative of Ørsal Johansen was just talking about: boxing is also about avoiding blows, getting away from blows. It's as much this sport is about, as getting the beat. That's why it's a little weird when I hear everyone in the debate today talking about how dangerous this sport is. As I said, judo is ok, karate is ok – we have sports. But perhaps the most dangerous – if we look at the sick absence – is the corporate sport. There is probably no sport in Norway that causes more damage than corporate sport. I haven't heard anyone in this room who'll forbid it, but there's a lot of damage – or there's cross-band damage in handball, football with menisches that are jerking, and other injuries. I just have to say that it is a good day today – after the Progress Party has made proposals since 1990 to lift the boxing ban. Repeatedly, we have proposed that this ban be lifted. This is a day of joy. Now we're leaving a very cellebert company – if there's a majority in favour of the proposal. A very cellebert company now goes from being three to being two. Norway is now leaving the company with North Korea and Iran. We're lifting the ban. Then there are the two that are left. I think it is quite ok that these two countries are left alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1141	First to the representative Stordalen, who hoped the debate would be more factual. It is clearly his facts that should apply, not what other representatives say. I think it is quite timely that the representative, Mr Bekkevold, should take note of this. Because when a question is asked by professional bodies, as I said in my post – that the Medical Association, the Norwegian Neurosurgical Association and the Health Directorate come with advice – the Advance Party refuses to listen to what they say. These are professional bodies we usually ask for advice, and they choose to ignore them. The Stordalen also says he doesn't believe it. No, but we've chosen to believe what's being said, and that's not how we think the Medical Association has shares in refusing pro boxing. We think they give real advice when we ask. Then we also understand, when the debate goes to the Chamber here, that this is the heart of the Progress Party. They're doing what they promised, and that's fine. But what does Right think? We see a debate here that has been quite predictable: the party of progress in defence, with many representatives up, the right is sitting still in the boat, and the Council of State really does not respond to anything. I asked what kind of research is available to prove that there is less damage, but I can't say that I've heard so much back about it. The representative Ørsal Johansen refers to all the damage that no one is allowed to do. Then I think it's very strange that it's exactly the damage you're experiencing, and that we're looking at the practitioners. It's a little bit like who's talking the truth, and who's talking the truth, and it's also mentioned from here that there's a lot of untruths about the sport. One may wonder who is entitled to the truth in this matter. We choose to listen to the professional bodies, which actually have a considerable weight, and also to the Sports Association, who believe something about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1150	A little comment at the end to representatives from the Progress Party who have been standing in a row and blame us who will not vote in favour of the proposal today – that what we come with is not evidence-based, and that what we come with is statements. I repeat what has also been said by the representative Mandt. We support ourselves to the Health Directorate, we support the Medical Association, we support the Norwegian Association for Sports Medicine and Physical Activity, and we support ourselves to the approval topic. I don't think they come up with statements. I think there is a very good health record that it is not good to lift the ban, and that is a heavy enough consideration for us. It is not for the Progress Party and the Right. I do not criticise the Progress Party in this matter, they have been honest and work for this for many years. I'm amazed that the Right is committed to this in the government platform. But I'm all, most surprised at the left that goes in for this now. I said it in my post instead, they're not in the hall, they've kept one post, they're not here to defend their vision, and they're the voices -- the scarce plurality -- in the Storting today that are going to support their government's proposal. That's what I think is critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1155	I asked for the floor to clarify some misunderstandings in this debate, because I hear representatives from both the Labour Party and the Central Party claiming from the interlocutory here that the Progress Party has pushed the Right in this matter, and that the Right through the Cooperation Platform is forced to vote for the lifting of the boxing ban today. Then I have to say that you have not followed very well with the last few years on what has happened in this room. I don't have numbers on how many times the Right has been involved and voted to lift the boxing ban, and that from a principleal approach. Even at that time, in the early 1980s, when it was decided to ban some sportsmen because it was thought that the Stortinget was the best fit to decide which sportsmen should be allowed or not in Norway, rather than let the sport decide for itself, the Right wanted to lift the ban, in principle, because we believe that there is no issue to be resolved by the Stortinget. In order to repeat it for both the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, which obviously did not get it: since the early 1980s, the Right has repeatedly voted in this Chamber – only in the last period, we have well dealt with the professional boxing case two or three times – to lift the ban. It is therefore a pleasure that the Right in the evening will vote again to remove the ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1162	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1176	The aim of this management audit report is to compare the stated objective of the Stortingen to full transition to electronic information exchange in the health sector with the actual results achieved. When Stortinget decided to introduce the Interaction Reform, it was very clear in the Inner East. 212 S for 2009-2010 from the Committee that the very success of the Interaction Reform would be largely due to the effective exchange of messages between the different entities, so that they could cooperate as closely as possible across the boundaries of the health and care sectors. We all agree that the sector can offer services of good quality, safe, without unnecessary time loss and at a high professional level. There is also full consensus that the use of already developed ICT systems is essential to achieve this. The need for an electronic message exchange has been repeated in all national ICT strategies since 1997. In this case, it appears that the Stortinget has been presented for the objectives set out in Interaction 2.0 — a national strategy that is the latest strategy for the 2008–2013 time span, the so-called national reporting promise, which was managed by the Health Directorate in the period 2008–2011, and the Notification Distribution programme, which was under the direction of Norsk Healthnet in the period 2012–2014. We must note that there is still a significant deviation from the objectives and that the exchange of information in healthcare companies is still largely on paper. An electronic part of the scope of the message does not take place on the basis of nationally accepted standards, with potentially impaired patient safety as a consequence. Similarly, there is no requirement for the content, structure and format of electronic messages in the sector. Although some units have come a long way, the practical use of these digital solutions is limited by the fact that the partners do not, and thus also the actors who have followed up loyally are forced to maintain communication on paper, and we come in the situation of double routines, i.e. both paper-based and digital routines in parallel. The government then announced in the 2011 State Budget in this forum – Stortinget – that all municipalities should have started electronic interaction with, among others. The specialist health service in the period 2008–2013, but what we can see, is that the actual target achievement at the end of the period, i.e. October 2013, was 34 pst. The Committee doubts whether, with such a low level of coverage as must have been the reality of the 2011 state budget being promoted, it could in some way have been realistic to achieve the objective presented in the Stortinget. We must also note that, when paper-based reporting systems are largely maintained, there are no key assumptions made by the Storting for effective patient treatment, nor have the objectives of the national strategy and national reporting obligations been achieved. As part of the work on this management audit, the Committee organised an audit hearing on 20 October this year in which the main actors and knowledge environments met. The Committee summarises the consultation there to the effect that it largely confirmed the Riksrevision study, i.e., more concisely and in concrete terms: Technical prerequisites for the closure of paper shipments have not been developed or put into use by all actors. There are no continuous standards for all forms of message exchange. Technical solutions developed have either not been put into use by all actors or are not used in line with national interaction architecture. The addressing solution for messages has until recently failed. The national testing and approval system operated by the Health Directorate has not been organised in such a way as to ensure that messages can be sent in a standardised format independent of the supplier. It is noted that the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s prior investigation, planning, management and follow-up have been unsatisfactory. The management and use of instruments by the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been too weak, taking into account the needs to achieve the objectives and in the light of identifiable en route problems. The Ministry has failed to make formal demands that the actors implement standardised solutions at the same time. The lack of formal requirements for the use of electronic message exchange and fragmented responsibilities has given actors the impression that the time of introduction has been optional, after which suboptimisation has taken place. The belief in behavioural changes through the influence of attitudes has been less effective. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Health and Welfare has not followed up the opinion of the Committee at the Innst. S No 291 for 2007-2008, cf. Document No 3:7 for 2007-2008, the National Audit Office’s study on ICT in hospitals and electronic interaction in healthcare, that the Ministry has to take an active responsibility for using the funding system to ensure progress and standardised solutions in the work to achieve electronic interaction between hospitals, municipalities and general practitioners. On this point, the Committee notes that the public sector in general has not developed sufficient incentives to reward innovation, whether it is using known technologies for new uses or new technologies in more traditional value chains, and that, in addition to this, it is usually not a lack of mature technology but of ordinary management and organisational competence that fails. The Committee notes that, in particular, the interest of the Directorate-General for Health in using the experience gathered by diffi from similar management projects has been low. The Committee notes that it is also in the field examined by the National Audit Office through the management audit report in question that the Health Directorate is primarily responsible for implementation and has not made an investment decision based on return claims – gain – and as a result is unlikely to have developed a profit implementation plan. The lack of momentum has also contributed to the defying of solutions when they finally arrive. Postponement means that the qualitative improvements in services resulting from the introduction of new ICT solutions are expected to harm users and patients in the healthcare sector. The Committee is concerned that the State is not adequately able to realise the societal benefits through the planned and coordinated deployment of ICT. It is the Committee's impression that many ICT projects in the public sector are characterised by time-consuming internal processes, orderly reports and well-intentioned intentions at the overall and principle level. Lack of decision-making, lack of ability to implement common and mandatory solutions, lack of understanding of organisational assumptions in the implementation of ICT are contributing reasons why opportunities available through technology are not exploited in the organisation. The Committee is of the opinion that narrow sectoral interests and traditional organisational sounding are at the root of large and important ICT investments. Lack of governance and overall management, insufficient opportunities for the exchange of information across and technology solutions that cater for the special interests of trade unions, not the needs of users, are part of this major problem picture. For the period covered by the report, 2008–2013, the Committee has highlighted the responsibility of the Ministry for the follow-up of the external agencies, in this case the Health Directorate, the regional health enterprises, etc. Similarly, the Committee would stress the active information obligation of the State Councils. With this in mind, the Committee considers that it should be reported back to the Stortinget with up-to-date information when the Council of State with the constitutional responsibility for the establishment sees that the objectives previously presented to the Stortinget cannot be achieved on the basis of the plan. The Committee considers it necessary to move from coordination through advice, guidance and recommended standards to central ICT governance. This must be done on the basis of a strong mandate, common architecture and committed cooperation. The Committee points out that there is a consistent experience that, in large parts of State activities, it is considered that self-development of technology solutions to be tailor-made for activities is best suited to efficient and user-friendly service production. However, the Committee would point out that experience goes in the opposite direction and that there is a need to use standard software as far as possible. It will also contribute to the more reasonable and continuous development of the solutions chosen, lower maintenance costs and less vulnerability. In this context, the Committee, acting unanimously, will make the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to adequately explain how the government will address the ICT challenges in the healthcare sector identified in this setting. Inner. 67 S [[2014-2015]] As I suggested, there is a unanimous committee that has gone to the step of giving an operational message along the way. We depart from the usual schedule to attach the management report to the protocol. We have not gone beyond what has been found in the management report, because the Committee does not itself want to exercise either ICT or health professional views, because we are not going to be an overcommittee. But with the clear findings and recommendations that the Riksrevision has helped us to present today, we feel confident that this operational instructions can help us get out of this mess.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1250	This is how we, who are standing on this platform, say at regular intervals that the matter we are dealing with now is a very important matter. But I'm still using this sentence as my first sentence: this is a very important thing. It is because this concerns the population directly, and it concerns the effectiveness of our health services in such a way that, on this occasion, the Committee has done what the rapporteur said, gathering on what is called a very significant criticism of what has happened and what is the situation today. I refer to what the rapporteur said in a very good way, and it is very comprehensive for the whole Committee's view and for the view that I also represent. So I'm referring to it. I would also like to emphasise from my point of view what the rapporteur raised at the end, namely that this time the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has gone to the stage of wanting to present a proposal for a decision. Everyone in the administration, both the political and the administrative management, who I have the pleasure of seeing is present, must take over. It is not because the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs does not understand the complexity of this. We understand that it's very difficult, we understand that it's very challenging. And I think everything in all, too, that in most cases you do the best you can to use a common language. Nevertheless, we are opposed to the fact that we are so far from the goals both set in terms of reality, that is, how the ICT system works today, and the timetables set by the Storting. I'm fully aware, and I'm careful to challenge it in some way and don't do it, that it's the Council of State that's responsible for this collapse. I know that former government councils have been responsible for this accumulation – not least the last, i.e. the previous ones. Nevertheless, this is also a management issue, and it is the interaction between policy and management that must solve this fundamentally. I want to raise a problem that the rapporteur did not raise, and which perhaps it is not the task of the Committee on Control and Constitution to travel. But I'm doing it anyway, because I'm losing patience, and that's: are the decisions that are made, and that we're invited to understand by the government with previous proposals from our own administration, health directorate and department, crazy? Are they too ambitious? Are they wrong? That's a good question. At least we are in the situation where the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, as the rapporteur has just explained, had to say this unanimously. Now I'm going to say something from this pulpit that I think is very rare to be said. Someone says to me, "Why are you involved in this, because this is criticising our former governments?" And then I'm going to say, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, The theme is how to manage this so that we can get a modern and effective health care system in terms of ICT development. Then the rest will have to stand their test. That's what I'm answering, and I think that's what I'm saying. I would also like to stress that we see a lot of progress. It is not that everything has gone wrong. But that is coverage for everything that the rapporteur said about what is not right. I don't like to bore the Storting by referring to what can be read, but I want to read some sentences because it goes into what's at the heart of the matter, I mean, and the committee for that matter: ‘There is some exchange of electronic messages both within and between health enterprises in all health regions,’ – and so it comes: ‘but this is done using locally or regionally adapted solutions and not nationally recognised standards. There are no common requirements for the content, structure and format of electronic messages that can be sent between health establishments.’ – ‘Not defined’, it says. – ‘Non-standardisation complicates the transmission of messages between different electronic disciplines’ – ‘Non-standardisation’. ‘Other factors impair the quality of the information and thus increase patient safety, as the possibility that the recipient does not understand the content of the notification correctly increases.’ Then there is the question that the control committee asks: why has it become like this when the Storting has said it should not be like this? It's a core question. I repeat that I understand that things are complicated. I repeat that I understand that there are thousands of users to be coordinated here, and that there is a lot of economy inside the picture. But the problem is that when we address these questions in the hearing, no one can give us adequate answers as to why it has been. And the last one scares me. Why can't anyone tell us why it's been like this at least, when it's been granted so much money, when the Storting has dealt with it so many times, when it's made all the decisions that the Storing has made in good faith on the basis of what the government has proposed, after the union has been in and said that we have to have it that way? So it's going to be wrong anyway. Then it goes too slowly. Then you have to start over. This I say quite openly and as honestly as I can, because it worries me. We also have other examples, which were discussed by the rapporteur and which are not the subject of this debate, namely within Nav. I'm just saying it as another example. No one can explain why it stops. This has to end somehow. We are now asking the Council of State to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way and say its own. He's probably going to say a lot today as well, and I understand very well that it's challenging for the sitting state council to handle this, as much as it has been for others. So that's not it. But the point is, we have to move on. The Supervisory Committee does not want to be an overcommittee, as the rapporteur said quite correctly, and that is not my ambition either. But at some point, some parts of the Storing must say clearly from, and that is what the Control Committee has done in this context – unanimously. Another quote: ‘The Ministry of Health and Welfare has not, through its legal use, formally required all actors to engage in electronic notification exchanges between themselves.’ – Not put into service. – “The sector’s actors have a separate responsibility and decision-making authority to decide on the solutions to be acquired and when to implement the solutions.” How, then, can you imagine the possibility of setting up national standards when this is the case? I don't understand. That is at least my problem, but it should be many's problem when the Storting has adopted one journal per patient for the whole country. I don't understand. I also do not understand it when it is not explained in the hearing why it is that way. The representative of the Health West was invited to the hearing, and said in the hearing – and this is a little after the memory, but it can be read in the minutes as well – that we have asked for standard, but we get none, so we can no longer wait, and we have to develop our own. I know it's not combined with Health Nord either. - All right. Who's responsible for that? Is that the directorate? Is that the department? Or who is responsible for that? Some of those who were in the hearing, who were experts, also said to us, dear all, it might be necessary to start again to deal with this. I would like to know – and that is what the Council of State is trying to have as an ambition to answer: Is it so that the decisions that have been taken have been wrong? That's what I'm asking. Are they too ambitious? Do we not want to carry out such standardisation? Yes, but then at least someone should say that this is not possible, so that we can get a strategy for this that is feasible and that makes the situation effective and good. Is there a question of money? That's always the case, but in case we have to know it as well. Of course, this is not in the responsibility of some of the control committee, but I take the role of drawing up these issues, because I feel it's here. And that's not the first time we've discussed this. You're doing it again. I do not want this to be annexed to the Minutes, as the committee's chairman – to put it correctly – and then we go along a strategy that may not bear. Then it's better to say from, and that's what's going on now: The whole thing says from, this is no longer going on. That's what's going on right now. It's clear that we have to somehow, in common I'd say, figure this out. I stress that this is not a partisan criticism, because that is not the basis for it. It definitely doesn't go against the sitting state council, as it is now, of course not. That would be totally unspeakable to say. It is directed towards a scheme that has not worked over the years and that the Committee of Inquiry has really gone into and said that we have to tell you about this. We've done it the way we've done it, and we can't go any further than ask the Council to come back in an appropriate way. I agree with the rapporteur that we should not be an overcommittee, but we should say from when we think things are not working. That's what we've done through this setting, which I've tried to make up the way I wanted to say this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1299	Through the reporting by the National Audit Office, as has already been mentioned, we shall compare the stated objectives of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the full transition to electronic information exchange in the health and care sector with the results achieved. When the Health and Welfare Committee in its time addressed the Interaction Reform and a new welfare reform, the importance of effective exchange of notifications between the different entities to cooperate in the health and care sectors was highlighted. It cannot be stressed enough that we expect the health and care sector to be able to provide quality services. The services shall be provided safely, without any unnecessary loss of time, and shall maintain a high professional level. A well-functioning ICT system is the key to achieving effective interaction between the various actors in the sector and will contribute to effective interaction and minimise time-loss. A wish to switch to electronic message exchange has been repeated in all national ICT strategies since 1997. The findings revealed by the National Audit Office's report are mildly disappointing. Since 1997, when an ICT strategy has requested a switch to electronic message exchange, it is not good enough for a communication exchange today, between healthcare companies, municipalities and medical agencies, to continue to be characterised by a high level of paper usage. Why doesn't this go any faster in the future? And why does one not get a uniform message exchange between all the actors in this sector? The National Audit Office has pointed out that there are clear weaknesses in the planning, management and follow-up of the work on electronic message exchange by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The National Audit Office also points out that the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s use of instruments has not been adapted to the objectives, status and challenges in this area. The background to the Riksrevisions report is based on collected data for the 2008–2012 period. In order to obtain an update of the state and additional comments from the sector and industry, the Committee, as mentioned above, had a wide-ranging consultation with many actors in this sector as well as external actors, which has given the Committee a good indication of what the status is right now and what issues we are facing. The hearing confirmed in all respects the findings of the Riksrevision investigation. There's a whole bunch of points one could draw out here, but I'll limit myself to including some of the notes that I think are important to notice: There are no continuous standards for all forms of message exchange. Technical solutions developed have either not been put into use by all actors or are not used in line with national interaction architecture. The national testing and approval system, operated by the Health Directorate, has not been organised in such a way as to ensure that messages can be sent in a standardised, supplier-independent format. The Ministry of Health's planning, management and follow-up have been unsatisfactory. The Ministry has failed to make formal demands that the actors implement standardised solutions at the same time. The different health establishments appear to have considered the time of introduction optional and this has led to suboptimisation. The undersigned was well ten years ago the director of a private hospital in the West, and I recognise the challenges of electronic interaction at the time, both through the National Audit Office's report and through the consultation that the Committee has had. Something has happened in this decade, the situation is not black and white at all, but the impression of the main issues is, in my opinion, the same today as it was then. I find it depressing that in 2014 we have not come so far that we have an ICT solution that provides good and effective flow of messages across and between all areas of the health and care sector, for the benefit of users of these services, and as expected by the Storting through many repeated policy decisions. In the future, one must now move to central ICT governance. There must be a strong mandate, common architecture and commitment. Effective interaction through electronic message exchange is an overly important objective for individual undertakings and professional interests to run their own races. I expect the Minister of Health and Care to take overall control of the ICT sector in the health and care sector and to ensure that the Health Directorate becomes a central provider of pre-mistakes and to push for an electronic, effective notification transmission in the health and care sector, as we expect, to become a reality within a reasonable period of time. I assume that the council itself will comment on this. Otherwise, I refer you to the rapporteur's detailed statement. The Contracting Party shall fully align itself with the unanimous recommendation of the Committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1344	From the launch of the first national ICT strategy in the health sector in 1997, a stronger national governance and coordination in the field of ICT has been requested by the EEA. So the proposal that a unanimous committee today is behind is actually made at regular intervals – with questions related to – over a period of almost 15 years. It's no wonder that someone today expresses impatience that we're still where we are. In all strategies since then, electronic message exchange has been a priority solution for an electronic interaction for the efficient and reliable exchange of patient information. The National Audit Office’s study, which we are debating today, has been aimed at assessing the status of the introduction of electronic message exchange and the simultaneous status of the liquidation of parallel paper procedures. Furthermore, the level of governance of national authorities and the organisation and follow-up of the objectives of efficient electronic interaction are examined. The study indicates that a great deal of competence has been developed in the health sector in this area, but the most striking thing is that the degree of implementation varies greatly, both among health businesses, in municipalities and in medical offices. Missing standards mean that the exchange of electronic messages takes place using locally adapted solutions. The requested stronger national governance is still very little in place. Common content and structure requirements are still not laid down. Double procedures are maintained: even where one has used electronic messages, patient information is still widely sent on paper. In other words, there is a lack of trust in the system that you are working on and that you have wanted to develop. Of the many findings presented by the National Audit Office, it is particularly emphasised that one in advance of the 2008–2013 strategy period had not systematically clarified the technical status of the various actors in the health and care sector. It was too easy to obtain up-to-date knowledge of the technical and organisational assumptions of the actors. In other words, there was a lack of a sufficient and sufficient basis for decision-making in order to follow up the objectives. It is also worth noting that, according to the Riksrevision, one has also not had enough focus on profit realization. A visualisation of the benefits would be important strategic approaches that could just create increased focus and motivation on the overall purpose of the introduction and use of ICT. It is also worth noting that a fragmented division of responsibilities has made the implementation of solutions difficult in line with national objectives. There has been too much up to the different actors how to solve the challenges. The national governance has been lacking. This has also led to the fact that the use of the instrument has not become as powerful as could be expected from the aim of Stortinget that all health companies, municipalities and medical offices should have established electronic notification exchanges by the end of 2014. So, although a clear record of a positive increase in the use of electronic messages has been made, the Council of State also underlines – we note – the need for the development and introduction of national notification standards between the different actors, as well as the fact that there has been too fragmented responsibility for the organisation of ICT in the health and care sectors. In addition to the fact that national targets in this area have not been achieved, perhaps some of the most serious in the situation is that this could result in a potentially impaired patient safety and less effective patient treatment. Double routines are rarely a type of quality assurance that contributes to something other than multiple time thieves and possible misunderstandings. There is a picture that the hunt for the best solutions has been too much left to individual actors. Instead of learning from the experiences of others — both nationally and not least outside the country’s borders — solutions have been chosen that have both been cost-effective and have led to a significant downturn in time. There is therefore reason for concern that another state-owned ICT project will not be realised according to the plan and national objectives. A strong mandate, central governance, focus on profit-reduction and right of access – not least the right to have tools, which can provide sufficient commitment in cooperation between actors – seems to be absolutely necessary and crucial to address the ICT challenges in healthcare. We, in the Christian People's Party, too, fully support the proposal of a unanimous committee, and I refer to the thorough examination of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1365	There is a very strong criticism on the part of the control committee and, as many have been involved, it is particularly recommended that decisions be taken to bring the government back to the Grand Duchy to address the ICT challenge, as demonstrated in the vote. And to say this in addition, it will be no less demanding for the Council of State to come back when one is also going to take into account the government's proposal on free treatment choices, and the implementation of the Patient Rights Directive does not do what we are facing here, less demanding. The electronic notification exchange in the health and care sector has failed and there is a reasonable consensus in the Committee that the objective is not clearly communicated enough. There has been too much process, and there has been too little focus on action. The characteristic of other ICT reforms that have succeeded is tight governance throughout the process. This theme covers both the State and the municipality. At the municipal level, there have been clear incentives, it has been very important, and one has got a lot. It is to a very large extent in regional health firms that it has failed, and it can have no other explanation than that one has had a lack of clear incentives, and one has also not had the necessary whip — which in many cases is necessary to combine. Regional health companies have received their letters of award over several years but have not followed them, so the letters may not have been considered important enough. Otherwise, the consultation reveals that there is too much public sector change in those who have been sitting and managing the projects. When new people come in often, some of the continuity goes away. Otherwise, it is sobering that what remains in the public sector in Norway is that anyone should do it big. Now we're discussing health, and as the committee leader was in the room, we've had hearings on Nav in the past, and a lot of the same thing is up and going. Such thinking about doing it big, combined with the fact that one does not have good enough control, obviously presents a great risk that it does not go like a wish. The most general thing we can take on in terms of better ICT tools is that we have to and must change all the time, we have a learning organisation, and the topic we are discussing is not a project that is finished when we have the message development in place. ICT projects must, in the view of the Centre Party, be an integral part of the health services' professional, daily activities, with its own employees in key positions. It is said to be so nice that you should have closer contact with innovation processes happening out there. It probably means in good Norwegian that one should talk to the ones involved, one should see what reality they are in, and one should dynamically adapt to the challenges one comes up with, and the possibilities to solve what those who are in reality experience. What we're talking about here is comparing it to a tool. It is like a scalpel that a doctor must use: it must be sharp, it must function, and it must be in its place in the drawer in the operating room. The ICT tool shall make the meeting between patients and treat effectively, not once, but several times and in several places. The chairperson of the Committee is sincerely indignant, perhaps more indignant than he has been before: how can this happen? It must end in some way," said the representative Kolberg. I agree that this is difficult. At the same time, I believe that in several public and state businesses, we need to look at how a person exercises leadership, and see if there is any systemic flaw in leadership. You have to look at organisation and management. There's a lot of focus on the size of organisations to solve the problems, and, in the opinion of the Center Party, there's far too little focus on organisation and management. We are faced with a fundamental need to discuss organisation and management, not least in the state sector, and we are also faced with discussing the consequences for the government leaders who are unable to do the job in a good way. Not succeeding must have consequences. A combination of focussing on organisation and management, and that not being able to do the job, will have consequences for a leader, I think it must be central, otherwise there will be more such things that we now have in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1386	Unfortunately, it is not new that large public ICT investments crack apart in terms of both time and money. The defense, the police, new emergency network, Nav, the state road system – there is no lack of examples. Electronic message exchange is hardly going to be the last example. ‘The police are slaughtering their own dataset’ – that was the title in the Official Journal of Bergen on 8 August 2013. The incidence continued with: ‘The police have spent billions on computer systems, but do not know what the money is spent on. It establishes a new police analysis.’ The red-green government set up a selection in November 2012 to analyse the challenges of the Norwegian police. In the final report presented at the end of June 2013, the Directorate of Police was criticised for the lack of management of investment in the ICT sector. The analysis reveals that the billions have cleared up without any control over what you have spent the money on. In total, 4.3 billion has been used. ICT spending in the last five years – i.e. until 2013. Of this, 1.3 billion. Roar Fosse, who in 2013 was the head of the Police Joint Union in Hordaland, said: ‘One of the main problems is that the systems do not talk to each other. We must therefore use time to record the same information both three and four times." If we go out of the country a little bit, these aren't unknown challenges either. Already in 2001, Denmark had a similar number of experiences with state-owned ICT projects in line with what we have had in Norway in recent years. The so-called Bonnerup Committee in Denmark presented in 2001 the report «Experts from state-owned IT projects – how do you do it better?». In the report it says, something prophetic: «In other words, the time of major public IT projects has only just begun. This means that we have seen only the top of the problems that the projects are at risk of encountering.' I guess that's where we're in Norway. We face many challenges related to ICT projects. One of the problems is interaction between actors who are on completely different digital planets and platforms, such as municipalities and hospitals, or permanent doctors and hospitals. In the health sector, part of the challenge, or problem, is also a large number of actors or stakeholders. Unfortunately, the patient’s interest is not so easy to see or hear in this image. On the other hand, there are a very large number of state stakeholders. Just listen to what state actors are involved in the so-called E-Health Group to contribute to more informed decisions, to a large pool of efforts and to a clear anchoring of responsibilities and implementation in the field of ICT actions in the health and care sector: it is the Ministry of Health and Health at the Council of Ministers, it is the top leaders of the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation, the Directorate of Health, the National Institute of Public Health, the Directorate of Administration and ICT, the four regional health companies, the Norwegian Healthnet SF, the National ICT and the National Centre for Interaction and Telemedicine, and it is KS, representing 428 municipalities. In addition, we have now received Health Vest RHF, which has been given overall national responsibility for ICT in the hospital sector. So it's an innumerable number of actors and stakeholders. Many of the challenges and problems of public ICT projects stem from the conditions under which the projects will operate, and to a small extent from the technology itself. Promises, rules, organisation, funding and fragmentation are some of the challenges we're talking about. The representative Lundteg took up management and organisation, and there are several people who have talked about it. We politicians probably have to take part in the responsibility for the challenges and problems. We're, to the most extent, part of the leadership group here. Another part of the challenge picture is the procurement law and its practice. We have a rather rigid Norwegian interpretation of EU tendering rules, and it is also one of the handicaps to the effectiveness of public ICT projects. A challenge related to this is also the annual government budget and allocation systems that we have, which make it difficult to implement long-term and cross-cutting ICT projects. Here we need to challenge ourselves to become better at using procurement laws and different forms of competition, such as competitive dialogue, design contests and double tenders, where design and innovation are more focused at an early stage. A third significant challenge in what we are talking about here — the health sector — is standardisation. Of course, technical standards for ICT equipment and digital infrastructure are part of this, but in the health sector, medical terminology is very central. Australia was one of the countries that founded medical terminology and secured it. They have registered more than 300,000 tradesmen in the health sector. It is clear that when we are going to enter a technical paradigm shift from paper-based to digital communication, it is essential and essential that medical terminology and practice are recorded, clarified and unambiguous for digital use as far as possible. Here we still have a long way to go in Norway to structure medical terminology. Not least we see it in electronic patient records, where there is a significant job left to structure that terminology. Denmark is another example — I mentioned Australia and also in Denmark. There are two of the most advanced countries in the field of health digitisation and digitalisation in general in the public sector, from which there is something to learn. After 2001, Denmark has continued to provide reports in the public sector on ICT projects. It's pretty interesting to read that they'll try to be more offensive about taking more risk, focusing more on change, and doing a little bit more paradigm shifts. I see that in Norway too we have had political ambitions about it, but that we have not rigged organisations, directorates, departments and other actors for it. It is a debate I would like to welcome: that we, both in this Chamber and around local governments and other public political bodies, take up the debate on how offensive we can be in order to provide users with better tools, and also to provide ourselves with more efficiency. But what they also say in Denmark is that they have too much political focus on control, and that it creates a too large and detailed pattern of requirement specifications, which also seem to be inhibiting and not developing. It also points to the need for more central decision-making skills, and it is probably also important in Norway that we seek a greater degree of decision-making competence and obtain a more comprehensive ICT architecture for Norway, where a digital health architecture is particularly important. Management and education are also part of this, and as politicians, we also need to discuss what leadership we should be involved in, and what laws, rules and funding systems we should facilitate, in order to achieve the ambitions we have. I see that the committee has spent a lot of time discussing incentives, but little time discussing penalties. Why municipalities have not introduced this is one of the discussions that I think the committee has gone too little into. The cooperation reform has elements of penalties in itself, including: when ready-to-print patients stay in hospital, municipalities have to pay NOK 4000. Similar sanctions may also be considered in the ICT sector. Back to Australia: The Health and Care Committee was visiting there in the fall, and one of the success factors I want to say that we experienced in Australia, was that they have a very tight management and decision-making competence for their commitment to e-health. They use a government directorate to drive out both the technologies and the skills tools for those who are going to use the technology. There is also little discussion in the Committee’s position — how to educate everyone in the health sector to implement these tools. They used a lot of simulators to train their health professionals, and among other things. decision-makers were not allowed to use new technology until they had been through a simulator. They did not then have access to the financial instruments. In Australia, too, NEHTA, which is the State Directorate, has ownership of all critical national electronic health infrastructure. They use it to a large extent in private to contribute, but it is NEHTA – this Australian directorate – who actually programs and sets the standards themselves, while dropping in the private ones by tender to do development jobs separately. In Norway, we have done it almost the other way around: we have called for tenders to private actors, both development jobs and, most importantly, policy developments, and we are running after them to coordinate. And if the private actors have programmed themselves into monopolies, we're facing a big challenge. In particular, in the area of community health services, we experience some of these challenges, but in part we also do so in the hospital sector, where we now have two actors within the four different health companies as central system operators. We are faced with a good deal of challenges associated with this, and taking on the national leadership trough is, to a large extent, a political responsibility. I do not feel that we are currently aiming to take the discussions in Norway and find the actor image that leads to implementation. And to mention that, Australia is fully at Norway's height when it comes to using electronic patient records, but they haven't chosen to phase all patients into it. They believe that the safety risk for it is too high, and will use the next three years to develop the system with a limited number of patients inside it. Here we have good reason to follow up on other countries that have the same challenges, which have come about about as far as we are, but choose to do so in other ways. We also have good examples in Norway. The tax haven and the Altinn are an example of a significant success in Norwegian ICT management. Why, across the board, we can't learn from good examples, is also a little mystery. And when we have a directorate for ICT and acquisitions, we should be more able to use it to solve these major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1442	The reason why I take the floor is that in future policy this is a responsibility for the Municipal and Administrative Committee, and that we have said something about it in the consideration of this year's budget. But I want to add that if you want to have good examples, we can also point to the state loan fund, which has done this very efficiently and very well. I am very pleased with what the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is now proposing as a decision. They have had a limited task related to what is stated in the National Audit Report on Health, but when dealing with this matter in the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have promoted an overall proposal, because we believe that there is a real need for an overall approach in this area. I can start by giving praise to the government in an area, because an area on which the government has now said it should have a continuous system is construction handling in the municipalities. Someone was talking about the cooperation reform. Here, there are many things to communicate, and there is some area I think the municipalities will have problems being overrun, it is precisely this area – that the state takes a holistic approach on how to get systems that talk to each other, both across sectors and across levels of government where there is a need for it. Therefore, we promoted a proposal asking the government to present a comprehensive plan for the use of common ICT solutions in the public sector across agencies and levels of government. There wasn't a majority for that, but I want to appeal to the majority that's here now, to look at how we can get this done, because I think that's what we all agree on. It is a difficult task, but a government that has taken the aim of modernising the public sector needs to have this as one of its most important tools to do so. It can not only be that the public sector should be small, it must also be that it should actually work, that it should use the technological means at its disposal and that it should operate across the sectors. Then you save both money and time as well, and none of us have the least against it. However, it requires that one dare to take the lead, that one dare to go in and rule across state businesses, but also put some strong leadership in the municipal sector that will allow common solutions to be developed, so I see that the government has now taken an initiative in the field of construction handling. We're going to come back to this in the future, but I wanted to say this, because we've tried to get the Storting to adopt such an overall plan. It didn't work this time, but the next time, I hope that with the help of the Control and Constitutional Committee, we can get a broad consensus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1453	Let me first say that I am pleased with the attention given to ICT in the health and care sector in recent times. Although the attention is not just positive – I should stress this – I think it is important that the actual conditions are illuminated. Both the National Audit Office and the administration, health professionals and patients describe the situation as challenging and require action. I believe that the Riksrevision has thoroughly addressed the issues related to electronic message exchange. Both the report and the hearing of the Control and Constitutional Committee pointed to important structural, legal and economic issues that need to be addressed. I will repeat one of my messages from the hearing in the committee. The National Audit Office’s investigation was finalised in 2012. At that time, the project in question was re-planned, and in the period after 2012 there has been a good development in the sector. We now see that most of the targets are achieved, but later than initially assumed. All municipalities, except five, are now using electronic message exchange. More than 600 000 electronic messages are exchanged each day. The current situation is significantly better than when health professionals used only paper and mail. It says health professionals themselves, and the Health Inspectorate also places emphasis on this in its latest annual report. Electronic services and solutions bring great benefits to actors. However, we still have a number of challenges – challenges that are demanding individually, and which because of their coherence also reinforce each other. I want to make it clear that the government's goal is to create the patient's health service. A prerequisite for this is an offensive approach to these issues. We have to go from word to action. In order to know what steps to take, we also need to know where we stand and what the history is. The experience presented by the National Audit Office and the sector is therefore very useful in strengthening the ICT area. It's granted an increase of 80 million. kr to ICT in the State budget for 2015. One of the things I took up early as a health minister was ordering three Health Directorate reports to describe the current ICT situation in the health sector. The reports would describe an overall challenge picture, an analysis of ICT work in the specialist healthcare service and an analysis of the Norwegian supplier market for electronic patient records. I have received the analyses, and they confirm much of the content of the National Audit Office's report. Reference is made to the need for a significant strengthening of the efficiency of implementation in order to ensure more coherent and predictable ICT development. The sector depends on a much better common resource use. This requires stronger governance and a stronger use of instruments. The Government has taken action in these areas. A year ago, I announced a full review of today’s organisation of ICT in the healthcare sector. I believe it is necessary to make changes in the organisation and allocation of responsibilities in order to ensure effective management and resource use. I therefore want to strengthen national governance. I also see this as an important point for the Committee. ICT measures have been set up under the auspices of the Health Directorate, which is becoming important in order to achieve the objectives of the patient’s healthcare. I believe the time has come to assess whether the national governance of key ICT actions should be further strengthened. I have therefore entrusted the Health Directorate with the task of assessing the sustainable organisation of the ICT area, which is rigged for new roles and responsibilities. One of the models to be assessed by the Directorate-General for Health is the establishment of a separate management body for Health-ICT. Regardless of the model recommended, the aim is to establish a robust organisation capable of managing national development and responsibility for ICT. In addition, there is a need for an organisation that can develop and manage relevant governance instruments such as legislation and financial instruments. The Health Directorate will provide a report on this in 2015. However, organisational changes are not sufficient alone. As the Riksrevision points out, the use of the instrument also needs to be strengthened. The Health Directorate has therefore also been entrusted with the task of establishing cooperation with municipalities, regional health companies and Norsk Healthnet SF, where it is intended to assess new state instruments in order to enhance the implementation capacity of the ICT field. Work shall include assessments relating to: new models for financing ICT across actors in the sector setting up ICT development joint decision-making processes covering the whole sector’s needs for new or modified legal and regulatory homes in order to implement state leadership for ICT development and regulate actors’ obligations to follow them up; The National Audit Office and the Committee have further pointed out that there is a lack of a national interaction architecture, that technical solutions have not been implemented, and that there has been a lack of standards and requirements. Developments have been overly voluntary. It has therefore been important for the government to facilitate the provision of better legal framework conditions, both for technological development and through clearer requirements. I am therefore pleased that this year the Stortinge has adopted the necessary changes to the central legislation relating to the field of ICT. The old Health Register Act was divided into two laws in June – a new health record for secondary use of health data and a new patient record law for primary use, i.e. health care. These laws shall enter into force on 1 January 2015. The laws ensure a more appropriate regulation of the processing of health data and ensure higher data protection and information security requirements. The legislation facilitates the development of modern solutions so that the necessary health information can be exchanged better, faster and safer between health professionals in need. At the same time, patients are monitored for their own information. A common identity and access management solution shall be established to facilitate interaction and information sharing between businesses. It is in the next year's budget allocated 55 million. kr for this work. Together with the new Patient Records Act, I will adopt a regulation on access to health information between businesses. The Regulation regulates one way of sharing information between establishments and sets requirements that must be met in order to allow health professionals in one establishment to read the relevant journal information into the systems of another establishment. A code for ICT standards is now being worked on. We're going away from volunteering. The Regulation is to be incorporated into the new Patient Records Act and will clarify to suppliers and healthcare the ICT systems to be used. This Regulation shall be adopted in February 2015. Experience has shown us that today’s architecture – with electronic messages sent from the actor to the actor – is complicated. The feedback from the sector is that we cannot achieve the ambitious objectives of one citizen — one journal, as set out in the Storing Communication, with today’s architecture. It is important to note that the exchange of notifications has been the only legitimate solution for communication of health information in general until the new legislation enters into force. The Health Directorate and the sector’s actors are investigating the future health information system. In this work, it is important to include both national and international experience and solutions. Health professionals need to get the best tools we can offer. The Health Directorate will deliver a preliminary study report in autumn 2015. It's set at 20 million. NOK for this work until next year. The National Audit Office’s report has highlighted key issues that need to be addressed if we are to achieve the ambitious goals that the Stortinget has agreed to in the field – issues where the government is well in the process of implementing measures. However, I would like to reiterate that the objectives of the Riksrevision project have been evaluated, for all practical purposes have been achieved. Today’s electronic message exchange solutions give, as mentioned at the outset, benefits – both for patients and health professionals. But it's more to pick up, both in the short and long term. It is therefore important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. In the short term, in my governance dialogue, I will ensure that further improvements and benefits of electronic message exchange are put in place. At the same time, we now have to work hard and follow up on the long-term measures and consider further action as a result of the investigation of one citizen – one journal. Of course, I will follow up the clear decision that the majority of the committee invites the Stortingen to do today, and come back with a report to the Stortingen on the status and measures. It is important for me, after hearing the debate, to stress that the ambitions of Interaction 2.0 2008–2013 are based on electronic message exchange. These are the ambitions that the National Audit Office's report has evaluated, which is the case today. Since then, the Stortinget has joined even more ambitions for the field through the processing of the Storing Message. It is not possible to achieve the ambitions contained in the message One incorporates — one journal, based on the technological developments on which Interaction 2.0 is based, related to electronic message exchange. Then we have to move on to a new generation of technological solutions. Such solutions were not lawful under the previous legislation. Therefore, it was essential to put in place the new legal basis for the work to which the Stortinget joined in June. It is a prerequisite for achieving the objectives set out in the Single European Act — one journal, to which Stortinget has also joined.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1505	Today, when we are debating the Riksrevision's study of how electronic message exchange has been implemented in the health field, we can conclude that the ICT bet that the Stortinget has been working on for several years, through strategies, large-scale messages, adapted legislation and appropriations, has not provided the concrete, practical results that the Stortinget has used. These are the findings of the Riksrevision, and there is an understanding to which all parties have joined. The National Audit Office’s survey is based on data collection in the autumn of 2012. Clearly, there has been positive progress in the use of ICT in health since then. Equally full, there is reason to believe that many of the shortcomings — probably all — that the Riksrevision points out in its report still apply, and that there is a significant job to do. Then it's important that we can identify where the obstacles are, what they are, and what they're going to do to enable us to exceed them. I was also working on ICT issues in the Health and Care Committee during the previous majorisation period, and then there were far greater differences between the different parties in the view of the use of ICT and electronic message exchange in the sector. Fortunately, it's changed, and that's good. It is, in my view, a very important basis for reaching agreed operational solutions in view of the work that now obviously needs to be done in this field. First a little bit about the work that the previous government did. Norsk Healthnet was established as a state enterprise in 2009 and is owned by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Norsk Healthnet’s mission is to facilitate the most secure and efficient electronic exchange of information between health and care actors, within the framework of national ICT policy. The entity shall work on simplification, efficiency and quality assurance of electronic services, for the benefit of both patients and the general public. Norsk Healthnet shall also ensure the stable and safe operation of the solutions used by operators in the sector. Reports from Norsk Healthnet suggest progress in the activity of operators using the network. Norsk Healthnet reports that all municipalities are now connected to the health network and that a majority of these use care messages in conjunction with medical offices and hospitals. Equally full, there is reason to take on the greatest seriousness of the Riksrevision that work has gone too late, and that one does not have the goal achievement that has been outlined earlier. The Government of Stoltenberg’s National Strategy for Electronic Interaction in the Health and Welfare Sector 2008–2013 was followed up by a very important ICT notification, One citizen – one journal, which has been mentioned here and dealt with in the United Kingdom in the spring of 2013. It was a message that received a very good reception both from the health sector and from the ICT industry. The message was based on a strategy for the interaction and use of the health network, the development of healthnorge.no, the implementation of e-prescription, electronic patient journal systems – EPJ – national reporting and coordination and modernisation of national health records. There was a message that added a step-by-step loop to implement the ICT strategy in the message. The size pointed out the importance of the government defining clear targets and targets for the various initiatives, linked to a realistic timetable and based on the experience gained in the process. Both the size and several hearing bodies pointed to the importance of gaining knowledge about the introduction of ICT in the health sector in other countries and the need to analyse both the positive and the negative experiences gained. The shortcomings demonstrated by the National Audit Office in the implementation and use of ICT in the health sector show that we have challenges of both competence and cultural character in the different parts of the healthcare system, and I do not think we should underestimate culture in this context. Not least, there is a lot of evidence that many Norwegian municipalities are struggling with the use of ICT in health, care and care, and that the follow-up here can be challenging. It's also true, as many people have said, that ICT efforts are generally fragmented, and that you haven't gotten the different systems to talk to each other. It can cause someone to think that everything needs to be cleaned up and rebuilt. It is, as far as I have gained experience – and then I must listen to those who can more about this than I do – not necessary. However, there is work to do to coordinate, create common standards, make players play together, and ensure that decision-making – not least – is made clear. Close follow-up by the Ministry of Health and Welfare is now absolutely necessary, not least – also mentioned by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs – to the external agencies, such as the Health Directorate, the regional health enterprises, etc. Then, for my part, I want to add that there are some regions that have come a little bit further and have gained somewhat wider experience from ICT use in healthcare than you have been able to get elsewhere. Then it might be wise to turn to those who have succeeded internally in their region, and maybe pick up a tip or two that can be transferred to national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1529	This is a very important matter. The size is very busy ensuring patient safety and quality in healthcare, and having good message routines and message exchanges is absolutely crucial to ensuring quality. Many errors occur because information does not follow with the patient but arrives too late. I have experienced the health care system when we wrote journals by hand. It may say a little about how old I am, but it also says a little bit that, after all, it has been a development – but far from what we can expect from modern medicine. So Stortinget has had a clear goal of electronic message exchange, that parallel paper routines in health and care services should be discontinued, and that it is a priority solution to get electronic message exchange. It has been mentioned here many times that the original objectives of interaction between health professionals, between health professionals and municipalities, and between health professionals and health professionals, are too late, but we have seen new goals, and things should be established by the end of 2014. We also know that there is a lot left, and the Riksrevision has come up with strong criticism when it comes to the department and the Stortinget's follow-up to the decision that has been made. It's pretty serious. There are large variations out there, some have come further than others, but mostly the image is that we are not far enough, and there are not developed standards for all types of message exchanges. Then I see that the National Audit Office's recommendations are that the Ministry of Health and Welfare must strengthen the combined use of tools in order to help ensure progress in the work and development of the use of standardised technical solutions, that the Directorate has to ensure that all necessary national standards for the electronic exchange of messages between healthcare providers, municipalities and doctors are developed, that Norwegian Health Network has to step up its efforts to improve the Address Register, and that regional health professionals have to ensure that technical solutions are developed and put into use at all lower health care establishments, so that other actors wishing to establish an electronic exchange of messages do not have to wait for healthcare professionals. It seemed to be wise recommendations. But I do not have one aspect in both the National Audit Office's report and the Committee's deliberations. That is what we know we are facing in the health system now, simply the major privatisation reforms. Free treatment options are to be introduced, we are now starting in 2015 for some areas. Later today, Stortingen decides to introduce the Patient Rights Directive. So we're going to have a completely different situation in the Norwegian health system than that of the three areas that are problematic in this matter, namely messages between enterprises, between enterprises and municipalities, and between enterprises and enterprises. We will have a completely different amount of actors who will then have to be able to communicate electronically and in a fair and good way. I am concerned that this focus is totally absent from this debate. In my opinion, the Committee's recommendation for a decision is as follows: ‘The government is asked to adequately explain how the government will address the ICT challenges in the healthcare system that this setting shows.’ I think this setting does not refer to the problem of many, many more private actors coming. I hope that the Council of State will take this with it, and at least it will be visible in the case that comes. Today, 10 pst is happening. of private hospital care, but the policy objective of the majority is that this should be increased when free treatment choices will give all private service providers who meet certain requirements a right to receive patient treatment paid by the State. The whole point of free treatment options is to get more competition, to give more competition to the public, so there will be more private players. How to enter this image with communication, I'm a little uncertain about. Then I see that the Riksrevision itself writes that one thing is that big business and government has a direct impact on themselves. Well, health professionals, we can do something about that. But it's going to be problematic from the Riksrevision: ‘Legal offices and municipalities are actors over whom the Ministry does not have direct control. It is therefore important to ensure that these actors have sufficient incentives to engage in electronic message exchange.’;» The same will apply to hospital services in the future. One will no longer have direct control of them, as one has at present, so the problem of getting a notification system will not get smaller in the years ahead. I have an example from a hospital that I have heard about. Last year, when the new government received ear-marked funds for CT/MR image – which was then waiting for – in private, I received a message from public hospitals that they had capacity themselves, but did not use it. They said that when patients brought their forms from the private institute, it was not done the way that the public hospitals needed to perform the treatment, so that one had to re-formulate. There are probably other examples of the same thing. So I really hope – and expect – that the issues that come up will deal with how to exchange messages between the public and the private. I know that in the audio recording of free treatment options, this is also recorded – or not exactly – the exchange of messages, but at the whole of how patient flow becomes, i.e. how the information flows with the patient. Back to patient safety. This is absolutely crucial to securing patients' rights. Even today, when we have a public health system, we have problems getting epicrisis out quickly enough for the decision maker. What if the patient has been treated abroad, which we are now calling for by introducing the Patient Rights Directive? How should the epicrisis come back in a good way to the decision-maker in charge? The same will apply to commercial companies that will establish themselves in Norway in order to administer hospital treatment. Can we expect and demand that they have an equally good system for patients? That was my comment on the matter. I hope that Minister of Health Höie will take it with him in the matter he delivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1561	I felt it was right to take the floor and say that there is reason to express satisfaction with the debate we have now had in Stortinget, and again stress how important it is that there is a unanimous committee behind what has been written and said. There is no disagreement in the statements we have had, and that means that the Storting is very united in its criticism of the situation and the desire to move on. It is quite obvious to me that there are other committees and other environments that need to take this further – the Health Committee, the Municipal Committee and others. Nevertheless, I hope that this can be a starting point for such a development. I would also like to say that the contribution made by the Council of State was uplifting in the sense that it contained many concrete measures, many good measures, in order to get this under control. But the overall management of this must be better than it has been. I think a lot of the challenge lies next to the many significant computer challenges of such large systems. If we have a common understanding of this, I believe that this debate has served its purpose, and that is what is important to us in such a context – as far as the whole population is concerned in such a concrete way as what this case does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1568	I will join the representative of Kolberg when he says that there has been a useful debate, and not least to the Council of State, which in its speech indicates that we are here in development and on the way. We have absolute opportunities to get a very good national e-health in Norway. We've created a good basis for that, and even though some people might be a little ahead of us in the race, we're also going to say that we're a long way ahead in Norway. A debate that I want to raise, which is particularly important for the Storting, as e-health becomes so central in the future, is a debate on the importance of digital solutions in the health sector as a national critical infrastructure and the safety perspective it travels, for the decline of technology here can have major consequences. It's a dimension that we might have to take with us a little bit more in the future. In this way, all other critical national infrastructure lies below the Minister of Transport. When the Council of State talks about a national administrative body, I think it sounds like going in the right direction, but the security dimension is what I want us to take along. A little back to Australia. I was very fascinated by the development of competence that they organized there. They had product catalogues and implementation guides and not least a big stake in simulators. I hope the Minister for Health will take into account how they developed it nationally and phased it in. Finally, I can't quite push myself, because the representative, Kjersti Toppe, was faced with challenges related to private actors that might be phased in, and made it sound like we're going to have a large-scale privatisation of the healthcare system in Norway. Once again, it's a little bit interesting to scale to Australia, which has 30 pst. private actors in their health care, while in the e-health sector they have tight state governance. It shows that political commitment is also important here, and not least what we have discussed here, namely political governance and political ambitions as an important part of it. In Norway, it is enough to show that dentists are largely related to this. We can also include the e-prescription system as a successful example in this sector, where the pharmacy association has, in fact, had a very good job in electronic interaction over a long time, and where all the major international pharmacies chains are using the Norwegian developed system in Norway. In the case of image diagnostics, there is more talk of clarification and division of work than there is any major threat. Here, it is more important for political leadership not to be plundered and embezzled in the future. I think the private have more to contribute if we let them go, than the political challenges associated with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1581	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1595	The case's rapporteur is Kenneth Svendsen, but the file rapporteur will be kept by Helge Thorheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1598	This case concerns the National Audit Office’s study on child poverty, and the survey covers the period 2002–2013. The aim of the study has been to assess the extent to which state instruments and measures implemented in municipalities contribute to reducing the impact of poverty on children and young people. The background to the survey is that the Stortinget has repeatedly expressed the need to strengthen the response to child poverty. The size of the population has shown that child poverty in Norway is largely about children experiencing social exclusion due to the economic situation of the family. According to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, children are entitled to participate in games and recreational activities. From 2002 onwards, there have been several action plans and action plans against child poverty. During the same period, the proportion of children in low-income families has increased. It has reinforced the need for instruments aimed at economically disadvantaged children and young people. The main findings of the National Audit Office are: Several children grow up in low-income families. Many municipalities do not do enough to allow poor children to participate socially. State efforts to reduce the impact of poverty among children and young people are not well coordinated. The needs of children are not well enough identified when parents apply for social assistance. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion contribute to strengthening the efforts of municipalities to establish more and better measures to provide poor children and young people with good conditions for social participation. For example, the Ministry should: assess how municipalities can use the competence of the IMDi for children and young people with a migrant background in their work to ensure that it is possible for all children and young people to participate in society. The National Audit Office also recommends that the Ministry assess whether more knowledge about good solutions and methods can help municipalities reach more poor children and young people. The National Audit Office further recommends that the Ministry contribute to better coordination of efforts to reduce the consequences of poverty among children and young people. For example, the Ministry should: assess whether, together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it can: contribute to greater cooperation between directorates whose tasks and instruments are targeted at vulnerable children and young people, coordinating and facilitating the use of State grant schemes, clarifying the cases in which the Child Protection Act is to be applied, and when using the Law on Social Services in Nav, when children need financial support for leisure activities, making the use of State instruments more visible to children and young people better opportunities for social participation; The Committee points out that the proportion of children from low-income families has increased from 5 pst. to 8 pst. in the last 10 years. In 2012, this was 78 000 children, and half of them again have immigrant backgrounds. There are several reasons why the proportion of poor children has increased. Trends in income have led to an increase in the low income threshold over the last few years. Low income families are defined as families with an average net income of less than 60 pst over a period of three years. of the median income, i.e. the middle income. Other factors include increased immigration, more single dependants and a lack of regulation of public benefits. However, lack of professional participation is considered to be the main cause of child poverty. Therefore, the most effective means of reducing child poverty is to ensure that more people get into work. The Committee has noted that the government has launched a review of Nav, one of the aims of which is to get more of those who receive support from Nav to work. The Committee points out that many municipalities find it difficult to know who needs action and how the measures should be designed to reach the target audience. Only 10 pst. of the municipalities have evaluated the measures they have taken against child poverty, and one in four municipalities has not surveyed the living conditions of the inhabitants, as the social services law provides. In 2011, almost 60,000 children lived in households receiving social assistance. It is then reasonable to assume that there is a high correlation between those who receive social benefits and those who are defined as poor. The Committee agrees with the Riksrevision that the Nav Offices must be expected to have the necessary prerequisites to meet the requirements for monitoring and individual assessments of the children concerned, in order to expect a clear improvement in the situation in the coming years. The National Audit Service recommends that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion contribute to strengthening the efforts of municipalities to establish more and better measures to ensure that poor children and young people can participate in social activities together with other children. The Committee agrees. The Committee has also noted that the Riksrevision considers that there is a need for better coordination of State grants against child poverty. Today, the same measures in municipalities are financed by different State grant schemes. In addition, administrative work related to the schemes needs to be simplified at both municipal, county and state level. The Committee is pleased that, in its reply to the Riksrevision, the Council of State states that it will follow up the recommendations to coordinate and simplify the use of State grant schemes. Following the National Audit Office’s assessment, the IMDi has competence that municipalities can benefit from in the field of measures that may include poor children and young people with a migrant background in social activities, and asks the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion to assess how this competence can be involved in countering the impact of child poverty on immigrants. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will jointly develop common guidelines for cooperation and sharing of responsibilities between the Ministry of Child Protection and the Administration of Labour and Welfare, Nav. The Committee asks the Riksrevision to report back on whether the proposed measures and instruments have wished to be effective. With this, I would recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1666	I would like to thank the author of the case, Mr Thorheim, for a thorough presentation of the broadly unanimous comments of the Committee. It is an overall committee that takes this report very seriously. As Thorheim had in mind, there are several reasons why child poverty has increased, but that the number of children in poverty has increased, is serious, regardless of explanation. As Thorheim mentioned, there are several reasons why this happens. At the same time, we don't know how the differences would have increased if you hadn't taken the political steps you've taken to reduce the inequalities. The most important reason for the increase in child poverty in low-income families is lack of professional participation. It is considered to be the main cause of child poverty. Therefore, the most effective immediate means of reducing child poverty is to ensure that more people get into work. This is why there are measures to increase the number of people at work that are most important — not just to solve the situation we have today, not just to obtain finer figures in the National Audit Office's follow-up report, but to prevent poor children from becoming poor adults too. The Workers' Party believes that work is the pillar of every human being's ability to live a safe and free life, and therefore, together with the SV and the Center Party, we initiated the working line as a foundation of politics when we were in government. It was the overall strategy of the red-green government to combat poverty and inequality in society. That is why the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are in common that we are pleased that the government states that they aim to get more people who receive support from Nav to work as part of the fight against poverty. At the same time, I must stress that this must be in the form of positive measures and not directly cut off to people who cannot work because they are ill or ill. It's not like you're getting more healthy or less unskilled by having less household money. When Nav and the municipalities have had the means to follow up children in poverty, and not least to ensure that they get to participate in leisure activities in the same way as others, there is, of course, a clear expectation that this will happen. That's why it feels particularly serious when it doesn't. The Committee has not provided any evidence that many municipalities find it difficult to know who needs action and how the measures should be designed to reach the target audience. But there is a clear link between the fact that there is only one in ten municipalities that have evaluated the measures they have taken against child poverty, and only one in four municipalities that have surveyed the living conditions of the inhabitants, such as the social services law. The Committee has maintained its agreement with the National Audit Office when it called on the Ministry of Children, Gender and Inclusion to contribute to strengthening the efforts of municipalities to establish more and better measures to ensure that poor children and young people can participate in social activities together with other children. It is an overall committee that asks the Riksrevision to report back, which Thorheim had in mind, whether the measures and instruments outlined have had the desired effect. At the same time, I have to say that for the Workers' Party, this is more about simplifying the administrative work related to the schemes at both municipal, county and state level, as the Riksrevision says. The indication of poverty is also an indication of inequality. Increasing inequalities are defined by the World Economic Forum as the very biggest challenge in 2015. The fact that differences have increased as much as they have done in Norway, says the OECD has given us 9 pst. less growth than we could have. As I said at the outset, this doesn't give any indication of how much inequality you would have had in the last few years if you hadn't inserted the measures you've taken to prevent growth in the inequalities. Increasing inequalities hinder economic growth for a country, weakening trust among people, and hindering the continuation of an economic system that has ambitions on behalf of all. We in the Workers' Party have equal ambitions, expectations and desires for all children. The fight against child poverty must therefore be seen as the heart of the policy on the distribution of opportunities. You have to be quite hard, perhaps made of granite, not to be moved by questions in this room about children who don't have it well, especially when it's approaching Christmas, and especially when Christmas is soon over, January is around the corner and the steps to the school feel long and heavy by spending a little extra time piling up lies about what you've done, and what you've got. Child poverty is not about the absence of Christmas gifts, it is about the absence of a future full of opportunities, and the future we must all escape. The Committee looks forward to the follow-up of the National Audit Office. But when low income families are defined as those with net income of less than 60 pst. of the median income, this is also, to the most extent, an indicator of distribution. Small differences and great trust in a society are achieved only with political will. That I wish was more present.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1687	In recent years, poverty has come back on the agenda in a stronger way. Several have become aware that poverty affects not only people in other countries but also more people and more children in Norway. The aim of the National Audit Office’s study has been to assess the extent to which State instruments and measures implemented in municipalities have contributed to reducing the impact of poverty on children and young people. The National Audit Office’s survey and conclusions are in many ways depressing, for the survey shows that from 2002 to 2012, the proportion of children in low-income families increased from 5 to 8 pst. In other words, this implies that in 2012 there were 78 000 children living in households with an average income of less than 60 pst. of the median income, half of which has a migrant background. Over these years, different governments have provided action plans and allocated money to actions of different kinds. Much is being done in municipalities around the country. But despite the measures, despite the focus on poverty, the proportion and number of poor children have increased over the period. This cannot be described as anything but discouraging. At the same time, we do not know what the outcome would have been without the action plans and measures. However, the results show that the measures do not appear to have had the desired and expected good enough effect. The national audit points to several reasons for the increase in the number of poor children. The evolution of income has led to a higher low income threshold. Increased immigration, several single low-income dependants, many public transfers, among others child benefits have not been regulated in accordance with wage and price developments and lack of professional participation. The latter is probably the most important cause of poverty. Action to increase the number of people in work is therefore essential in order to achieve a sustained improvement in the income situation of those in the poverty group. Other studies we have examined in the Control and Constitutional Committee have shown that efforts in this area have also not been good enough. At the same time, we know that not everyone is able to work healthily. It is therefore important that social security and other financial support schemes also have a size to live off and allow children to participate in activities in the same way as other children. The National Audit Office’s survey shows that many municipalities do not do enough to allow poor children to participate in social life, and that the needs of the children are not adequately addressed when parents apply for social assistance. Only one in five municipalities had e.g. reduced parental benefit schemes in kindergartens and free tickets for swimming pools. Many municipalities find it difficult to know which children need action and what action should be taken to reach those who need it. Only a few of the municipalities have surveyed the living conditions of the inhabitants, as the social law suggests. And even fewer have evaluated the measures they have in their municipality. This probably means that many municipalities do not have sufficient basic information to assess what measures they should take to improve the situation of children in poor families. Local knowledge is essential in order to take the good and correct actions. The National Audit Office also points out that the state effort is not well coordinated. In particular, this appears to be the case at the directorate level, between Nav, the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family Affairs and the Directorate for Integration and Diversity. It is strange that according to the study, the IMDI, the Integration and Diversity Directorate, is little involved in the work against child poverty, when at the same time one knows that about half of the children in low-income families have a migrant background. I would like to believe that the IMFI has just a competence both in the state and in the municipalities could have made better use of in this regard, and I expect this from the Council of State. The National Audit Office recommends that the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion contribute to strengthening the efforts of municipalities to establish more and better measures to provide poor children and young people with good conditions and social participation. They also recommend that efforts to reduce the impact of poverty among children and young people be better coordinated centrally. As I perceive the Council's reply to the Riksrevision, I assume that she will just follow up these recommendations. For the Christian People's Party, combating poverty has been a field of activity in our alternative budgets and through other proposals in the United Kingdom over many years. It is important for children to grow up in safety and to be able to participate in activities with other children without having to interfere with the economy. Unfortunately, the National Audit Office’s study shows that developments seem to have gone in the wrong direction. Instead of having fewer poor children, there have been more. So here we still have a big and important job to do together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1711	Although the Control and Constitutional Committee has provided an almost unanimous position on the matter under consideration, it has a serious backlash. Nearly 80,000 children live in poverty in the world’s richest country. There are numbers we can't be familiar with, but they've been stable in recent years. Unfortunately, we do not see any decline in spite of the seemingly unanimous agreement – and agreed – that we must do something about this. The National Audit Office's report shows some very serious findings: Several children grow up in low-income families. Many municipalities do not do enough to allow poor children to participate socially. State efforts to reduce the impact of poverty among children and young people are too poorly coordinated. The needs of children are not well enough identified when parents apply for social assistance. This is not good. The question is whether the measures proposed by the Riksrevision are sufficient to address the same findings. I'm afraid the answer to that question is no. More knowledge and better coordination are, of course, important, but hardly enough. I would therefore like to spend some of my time in my contribution also pointing to measures that I and the Left believe will be important for fewer children to grow up in poverty in Norway in the future. I want to look forward. We need to use energy to find good measures that work. Poverty in Norway is not just about having a lower standard of living, but about standing outside society and excluding the possibility of participating in the various communities. While pensioners were one of the largest low-income groups in the past, today young people, young adults, lone-parents and, in particular, families with immigrant backgrounds account for a higher proportion. In 2012, half of the children in low-income families in Norway had a migrant background. There are several reasons why the number of poor children has increased. The evolution of income has led to a higher low income threshold. Increased immigration has helped to increase the number of children in low-income families. There has also been an increase in the number of lone dependants with low incomes. However, the main cause of low income is lack of professional participation. The labour market is and will be the main venue for the distribution of income and protection against poverty. Although it is an overall objective to be able to care for themselves as much as possible through work, there will always be people who, for various reasons, cannot be in regular employment. Then we have to make sure that we have good arrangements for people who can't take care of themselves. At the same time, such income insurance must not be designed in such a way that it does not pay to work for those who can work. It's a demanding balance. The left wants to lift more of today's poor out of poverty and at the same time prevent future poverty. We therefore need to take action in several areas. We will give priority to action in the fields of education, employment, housing, health and inclusion. Some of these, as a result of the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, will fortunately become the current policy from next year. In order to reduce poverty, school policies must ensure that everyone acquires basic literacy skills, that social challenges are followed up early, and that more people are qualified for work. Failure to complete secondary education presents a significant risk of future exclusion. Persons who have not completed secondary education are overrepresented among those who are dependent on public benefits. Many suggest that the dropout starts early and often due to lack of basic skills already from primary school. In addition, follow-up at home is important. For parents, basic language skills are important, not just for getting a job, but for following up the children who are being trained. That is how we can prevent poverty from inheriting. Kindergarten is an important arena for the development of language and social skills which should also give children of parents with low incomes the opportunity to participate. In particular, children are living on reception facilities, which are currently not entitled to kindergarten. It will be a challenge for future Norway if many of the children living in receptions do not learn Norwegian, and then start in Norwegian school, with the danger of falling out of school that unfortunately very often has consequences. In particular, the left will give priority to free core time in kindergarten for 3 to 5 year-olds who are children of low-income parents, differentiated parental pay in the school leave scheme/activity school, more nurses and specialised educators and better school counselling. The left will also implement a language training reform through adult training. Everyone who has children in kindergarten, or has had children in kindergarten or in the school leisure system sees that there are significant benefits from having children in kindergarten and attending preschool before starting school. Both the ability to interact with other children, the social added value of going to kindergarten, and also the ability to communicate with other children in the Norwegian common language, provide great benefits. We know that health centres are also understaffed very many places in Norway. Here we need a stepping-up plan to get more health sisters in the school health service, but also in health centres. It is also linked to the fact that we know that poverty and, in particular, child poverty – and studies show this – are related to violence and violence against children. And we know that detecting the risk factors, detecting care failures early, is very important for making an offer and taking early action. The hearings we have had at Stortinget show that special children between zero and one year of age are severely affected by care failure, as well as children from one to five years of age. This is before they start in ordinary school. If several of these children are in kindergarten, and if we have an enhanced health station service, we will be able to do something about the poverty gap in the long term, and also help those children who are most resource-responsible and most at risk to be exposed to care failure. The most important means of preventing poverty is to ensure that people get into work or keep work. Work gives individual economic autonomy and is at the same time the most important area of social inclusion. Persons aged 25 to 65 who live in a household without a permanent professional relationship are five times more likely to have persistent low incomes than all others in the same age group. In recent years, Nav has been criticised by several teams for the fact that the life situation of the children is not monitored when parents apply for social assistance. It is also repeated in the Riksrevision study that we are now discussing. This applies, for example: the children’s need for clothing, shoes and equipment, as well as whether the family can afford to participate in various activities. Therefore, there appears to be a need to clarify to Nav the importance of monitoring the needs of children. At the same time, there is a need for more room for local discretion and freedom of action in Nav to follow up and develop measures for those who are out of work for various reasons. In particular, the left will give priority to reducing the threshold in working life by softening access to temporary employment, implementing measures to help disadvantaged people enter the labour market, increasing subsidies for social entrepreneurship and strengthening the arrangements for organising grants and temporary wage subsidies for job seekers with disabilities. The left will also introduce experiments on anonymous applications in the public sector and enhance the quality of the qualification programme by making it less arbitrary and more targeted. Researchers at Fafo Jon Rogstad in 2012 sent out anonymous, or fictitious, applications, a total of 1,800, and the only thing that separated them was the names of the applicants. So it was a typical ethnic Norwegian name and a typical, what to say, immigrant name, not a typical ethnic Norwegian name. We sometimes call them brown Northmen, such as me – that is, those types of names, which are slightly different, which are sometimes difficult to pronounce. And what these researchers found, after sending out these applications – and the applications were otherwise equivalent, with the exception of this name – was that it was 25 pst. less likely to be called in for an interview if you had this immigrant name, i.e. the non-ethnic Norwegian name, on the application. Everything else was similar. Significant differences in how to be called for an interview depend on your name. Everything else is equal to. It's alarming. You may have been born and raised in Norway, but by your name you will not even be called for an interview, even if you have a university education or what you now have when applying for a job. This is reflected in the significant differences. And if you don't get called in for an interview, you don't get a job either. Well, that's what I'm saying. So at the same time, we know that unfortunately, immigrants do not come out well in many statistics, especially on the job page. We will clearly be able to do something about this, especially in the public sector, which, in its job advertisements, is specifically looking for people with a migrant background and with disabilities. But then we've seen that it's just the public sector that's worst at manning people with the background they're actively looking for. We in the Left believe that an attempt at anonymous applications in the public sector could contribute to remedying some of these discriminations to which people with a migrant background are exposed, i.e. the group with the largest number of children living in poverty in Norway. In addition, we need to better target the many social benefits and support schemes of the Community. The left will redeploy child benefit so that there is a higher payment to low-income families. This has been the opposite of some games here on Stortinget. I think it's a little weird that you don't want to do the social redistribution this is. It's a good idea to have uniform social benefits, for example. family allowances, which you receive regardless of your income. It could help raise a lot of families who could get up against double social benefits, versus those who serve over a certain amount. And we can discuss that sum, but a lot of people will probably agree that you have a total income in the family of over millions of dollars, maybe the child's health isn't so much needed. But if a family has very low income, in total maybe less than 300,000–400,000 kroner, and there are several children, getting double child welfare could mean a lot. This is what the Left wants to do, but there are not many parties here on the Stortinget that are interested in it. The left will remove the cash support and replace it with a waiting allowance provided to a childcare facility, and we also want to introduce a national minimum social assistance standard for living that is price adjusted each year. We think this is the way to go. A safe and stable housing situation is essential in order to get out of poverty. Good support schemes and targeted efforts towards those who need the most must be central. It is important to ensure adapted housing for families with children, in particular children-rich families with a migrant background, as well as young adults with child protection experience, young people and adults who have problems with alcohol or mental illness and minor refugees. Today there is too little continuity in social housing, and the municipal housing stock is too concentrated. In particular, the left will give priority to targeting the Husbank’s efforts against economically disadvantaged people and allowing municipalities to access more instruments of housing policy through the Husbank. We also want to introduce a Norwegian home purchase model, where rented municipal housing can be paid down over time through the payment of rent, so that the tenant eventually becomes owner. We also need to provide more and better rental homes. Good health may be the most important measure to prevent poverty by getting into work and being able to support yourself. Mental health challenges are particularly high, and the proportion of young people outside the labour market is increasing due to mental health problems. A strong commitment to a good mental health service, where children and young people receive treatment early in the course of the disease, is important to prevent young people with mental health problems from falling out of education and working life. This requires good interaction between the health sector, the knowledge sector and the management of labour and welfare. In particular, the left will give priority to extending the system of free health services for children aged 16 to 18, which is said to strengthen health centres as the main low-threshold services of families with children and to implement a stepping-up plan for mental health work in municipalities, with particular priority for children and young people. Of the 78,200 children in Norway who grow up in a low-income family, as pointed out by the National Audit Office, 47 have an average of 47. immigrant background, i.e. have approx. In Norway, half of all poor children migrate backgrounds. While only 11 pst. In Norway, of all children with a migrant background, they represent half of the poor children under the age of 18. It's a big and rough overrepresentation. There are also large differences among different ethnic groups, but common to poor immigrant families is often that they have many children to support, and they often have low professional activity. I ask questions about whether we care enough about the poor immigrant children. It's not enough to have a good will if we don't follow up. It's not easy just to remove poverty with a pen stroke. I've already said it from this pulpit, and I say it again: I'm in doubt whether we care enough about poor immigrant children. I'm in doubt because we talk a lot, but we don't act then when it comes to following up this in the budgets. Poor children are exposed to social exclusion and exclusion. Poverty is shameful and taboo, and children often go far to hide it, preferably at the expense of their own life development and inclusion. These include: whether there is no possibility of participating in various leisure or cultural activities, or of celebrating their own and others' birthdays, or of going to cinema and cafés. But just as serious is the feeling that kids get when they don't get to share in a community, and they feel that they're not equivalent. In addition to long-term efforts at education, employment, housing and health, concrete and targeted measures are important to make everyday life easier for each child in each municipality. Therefore, the Left will coordinate and strengthen State grant schemes for children in low-income families and simplify and red tape the grant schemes by channelling through, for example, the county councillors and the Freewill of Norway. If most of the proposals I have now outlined become a reality, I am absolutely sure that at the next crossroads we will get a far more uplifting report from the National Audit Office on poverty among children and young people. It's basically not just a wish, but a duty we as representatives have. Fewer children will grow up in poverty in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1791	I think I'll start by saying that the poverty of children is not going to be reduced until we're willing to move money from those who have a lot, to those who have little. A lot of people have been talking about the line of work, we've been talking about the line of work for years. Me and SV are carved trailers of the workline, but we have to see that it is not enough, and that the workline we have provided now is not good enough either. All these kids we're talking about have parents; most of them live with their parents. Then I'd like to get to grips with what I'm experiencing is one of the big problems today, how we talk about disadvantaged people and people with bad advice. It's almost become something personal that's attached to people who have little money, that there's something wrong with them, that there's almost something suspicious about them, and that it's allowed to say bad things about people who have it hard. A doctoral thesis came a few years ago from someone named Kjetil Lundberg, and he wrote about user experiences in Nav. He interviewed people who needed help from Nav. They told us how bad it was to be referred to as demeaning and denouncing and to be moralized into the media by leading politicians and viewers, preferably followed by online debates where the most ugly characteristics hailed. You have a bad will, you're a latsab, and there's no way what's the problem with people. They told me that they hardly dare to show themselves out. What does it do to people? People don't get fresher, get new hope, sea urchins and believe in their seas and are more able to get to work if this is what meets them from other people when life has hit them at the hardest. It's also the case that this affects the hardest of all those who have got good work morals into their mother's milk, and I think most people do. But it happens when life goes black, and you don't see any light in the tunnel, that you might decide that if I can't do anything else in this world, at least I'm going to be the best at least to be the worst. There is also a maritime maintenance operation that I think we need to understand can be taken in by someone who has it difficult. And people are ashamed, they shrink, but they are the ones spreading these prejudices, which in my view have reason to be ashamed. I have brought with me some more reports, and I will quote from one of them, which is called Poverty and Living Conditions in Norway – Status 2012, from Nav, and it says: ‘One of the arguments for keeping the rates of social assistance and other benefits down is that it will motivate the recipient to participate actively and be an intention to enter or stay in the labour market.’ It sounds very familiar. ‘One can also imagine that if benefits are kept at a very low level and one lives on economic social assistance over a long period of time, it will be difficult for many to make changes in their lives. Living in poverty can lead to inaction, marginalisation and isolation rather than to increased activity. According to some researchers, the work may conflict with the fundamental rights of children and the right to a satisfactory standard of living under the Convention on the Rights of the Child and under the Social Services Act of the Labour and Welfare Administration.’ Yeah, that's enough how it works. And then it's extra supportive, when we now get this national audit report in addition to two other reports I've taken with me, namely the 2011 Health Inspectorate's report on the supervision of social services in Nav, which is called, by name, Municipalities violates the law on requests for financial support, and the Health Inspectorate's report 2/2013, which is Glemmering the municipalities' children and young people in meeting financially disadvantaged families? In both reports, the answer is yes – this does not work. And this has been a problem for a long time. I have wondered very much why it is so, but now the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has also received this report, and everyone agrees with the heart that this needs to be changed, but will it be changed after this? I'm not sure. Because the Law on Social Services in Nav is very clear in these areas. When the former ‘law on social services’ was transformed into ‘law on social services in Nav’, Stortinget introduced a separate passport into the purpose paragraph that special consideration should be given to children — because we had seen this development for a long time. But it doesn't seem to help. I've brought this up with a lot of local politicians too and asked: do you really know what's going on in their own municipality when it comes to the follow-up of the disadvantaged families? Are you discussing social assistance and the social follow-up, especially by children, in the local government? A lot of people answer no. And these reports, which the Health Authority has produced, show this; they show that when, for example, it does. Someone comes to Nav and wants social assistance, you don't get help to fill in an application. Sometimes you don't ask if you have children, and sometimes you ask, but maybe just how many. I have also had contact with very many children who have been under the responsibility of child protection, and everyone has reported that no one has spoken to them – with them – not child protection and not people in Nav. I've also talked to many people who work with these questions locally, and some of them even believe that if Nav had done his job much better, and broadly, as they should do for these families of children, many would have avoided contact with child protection – because the poverty they face makes their parents shave, and it's not so strange when you don't know what to wear in the refrigerator, or the draft is hanging over you and you might even have been thrown out of your home, with little kids. I don't know if I'd been standing on my legs after such experiences. I doubt it. So here, the municipalities have a huge responsibility through Nav, which they don't take. There are a lot of things to address in this debate. I'll try to get inside someone, and not hold on too long. The representative, Abid Raja, was concerned that more immigrants are coming out badly. Yes, I think he's right that this is part of the problem that it's hard to do anything about it. Because I think the prejudices against immigrants are even worse than they are against the ethnic Norwegian population – by lying on the lat side and laughing all the way to the pole if you've got a 50-pocket too much. That's how we know it's not. We know that if you get to live so well that you can manage, the chance is that you can manage and manage to save the seaview and the belief in sea life, much better – even for the kids. But then there's all sorts of reason to be obs on cuts that can affect immigrants in particular. And I'm asking the representative from the Left to pay attention to that, especially when we're discussing, for example. the transitional benefit for lone dependants. It also says Nav, these are families that have two to three times as much risk of lasting child poverty as others. And then you still discuss here in this hall to remove it. It's a system that gets people to work, it's a system that provides a lonely dependant with safe income for three years while qualifying for work. This is the way the scheme is now, so it was changed when SV put into government. It's working. That's the line of work so it laughs. So at least you don't have to do that. Then we also have to make sure that the introduction program is good, and better than it is today, and that you get a better chance to learn Norwegian. It is also necessary to extend the system of Job Shaping. I want to get back to social assistance, because there are aspects of social assistance that are very important to get into, especially because more people have talked about child welfare. It is quite right that child-responsiveness has not been regulated, and it should have been, of course, but would it have helped the poorest? The answer to that is no, because it is actually the law for municipalities to shorten social assistance against child welfare. So in this country, everyone gets child-responsive, except for the poorest, who needs it the most. Then it makes no sense to talk about testing it for wealth – we'll stop testing it for poverty first, because that's what we're doing. In the context of the budget, we asked the government how much money these poorest families lose because we allow this. The government answered 360 million. kr per year. Is there anyone asking why it's difficult for these kids? Three hundred million. kr per year we allow the income of these poorest children's families to disappear because we allow this abbreviation. It's money that I got when I had kids, and that everyone who has kids today gets, completely independent of additional income -- high incomes, low incomes, wealth, you name it, that's the same thing. Then we have to close that hole again, and then we have to increase the child's anxiety for the lonely, because there we know they're struggling, and we have to increase the child's anxiety for the families that have the most children. Then we'll meet up well at child poverty. There is a need for a separate right for children in families living on social assistance, for their own support for activities. Some municipalities have this, and it seems good. In Ålesund, for example. a fireman who has initiated what is called the Experience Card. It has spread to several municipalities. Here the children can get a card, it can be a smart card, it can be a cut card, for different types of experiences you can choose for a sea – and that’s important. These children, and especially the young, need to be able to choose their activities seagoing, perhaps more than anyone else. It can't be that the municipality decides that you should go to football, or that they have a leisure club that suits you. These kids need sail to know after they may dare to have a dream or a wish in their lives, and if they then want to go to cinema or folk dance or play football, I don't know what, they have the opportunity to choose this sail. The experience card in Ålesund was also nice because they included the accompanying arrangement in it, so it could be possible to bring a friend with you – because it's fun to go to the cinema, but it's kind of silly to be there alone, especially if you have little money and maybe not many comrades either. Or you could, for example, bring one of their parents to an event they wanted to attend. I am telling this because I and SV believe that we have to put in place a statutory system. We proposed this in the budget now. It was downhearted. But we have to put in place secure rights for these children. I don't know what kind of sanctions you can have against the municipalities that don't follow up on the important commitments they have towards the most disadvantaged children in this country, but I've had the pleasure of working with someone who has the most legal competence in this field, namely jusprofessor Kristian Andenæs, and he says that the more discretion you put in the law, the more vulnerable they are. For they are exposed to this moralism, and discretion rarely goes in their favor. So the more difficult people are, the clearer the rights must be. Point two: As far as I know, there is not a single case for social assistance or these rights for young people in Norway. And it's strange that those who don't have needles in the wall sail, should be those who have never had an unfinished business with the public. This is why the law needs to be strengthened in this area, so that you have full complaint. One of the proposals SV has also promoted, as it somehow did not become a majority for now, because I know that there are parties that agree with it, is a Nav agent, who can do as one does on patient rights, look at what does not work, and that can also be a place where people can turn when it's most difficult. The problem today is that many people who go to Nav in the blackest moment of their lives are asked to take the celebrity test in bureaucracy – that's the first thing they should do – and that's not easy. Then many people don't get their rights. I have had three conversations recently today with people who are completely broken and really on the verge of breakdown. And as far as I can see, they may not be entitled to everything they ask for, but what they are entitled to do is to be taken seriously, and not least that their kids are taken seriously. Because what they're saying is that they have kids, and when they point out that the kids have no needs that aren't being met, there isn't any weight added to the system at all. So I'm glad that the debate shows that everyone sees this, but now we have to jointly put in place mechanisms to ensure that what we have adopted is going to happen, that these children are going to get the help they need, that families are going to get the help they need – that it actually happens. I also hope that we can agree that if people are in a situation where they are actually able to put their legs under and be an authoritative person in their own lives and don't have to stand on their knees and beg for every fifty-year-old you're supposed to have, the chance is greater that they can be good parents for their kids, and far greater that they can eventually, once they've overcome their difficulties, get into work and work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1845	I guess no one needs to question Karin Andersen's commitment to this topic. It is a theme that several governments have tried to do something about, but at the same time we have got this report on the table. I also share the representative's frustration that the municipalities often do not follow up on what is required by law to follow up. It applies in the area of child protection and other matters as well. I think that together we have to challenge our own party colleagues out in the municipalities to ask questions about the situation in their municipality. For a while I met a child who is in child protection. He asked me, "Why is it called child poverty?" I'm not the one who's poor, and I'm not the one who's responsible for my parents being poor. That's a good question, which we can write a little bit behind the ear anytime. I am pleased that the National Audit Office's report provides such a clear overview of living conditions and challenges for children growing up in poor families. It gives important input to the further work that the government is going to do. Several children grow up in low-income families, and more children are affected by poverty. This leads, inter alia, to: that children are less involved in social activities. We know that participation is essential for children to develop their abilities and skills, so it's important to get in place. The government has already started to step up efforts to tackle child poverty. We have notified the Stortinget that we want to present a strategy against child poverty, based on the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left and a joint representative proposal promoted in 2013 by the cooperation parties. I would like to inform you that we are already doing well with 10 of the 14 concrete measures contained in that proposal for a representative. The National Audit Office points out that one of the main causes of low income is a lack of professional participation. The government agrees. The most important measures to prevent and reduce poverty are a good school and an open working life with room for all. The government is working for a safe and flexible labour market with low unemployment and high employment. The Government has recently submitted a communication to the Storting on strategies and measures to enable more people to participate in the ordinary working life. Hubs shall promote transition to work and activity and shall contribute to social and economic security. In March, the report of the Group of Experts has been reviewed by Nav. Their mandate is to propose measures to improve Nav’s ability to achieve the main objectives of the Nav reform. The first interim report has been delivered to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs. In the final report, the expert group will look in particular at how Nav can be better able to help users get into work and activity. The report comes in March next year. The government has consulted proposals for a change in the law to protect children’s and young people’s own incomes when assessing and calculating the family’s need for social assistance. The government aims to promote a legislative proposal early in 2015. The National Audit Office points out in its report that many municipalities do not do enough to allow poor children to participate socially. The government’s draft budget increased the funding for the scheme of assistance for children and young people in larger urban communities by 5 million. NOK next year, to a total of SEK 28 million. kr. The national grant scheme was in the year of 115 million. kr. The system has helped to ensure that there are record numbers of children and young people who have taken part in leisure activities, as well as those who, their parents and their families have had holiday experiences. I am also pleased that the budgetary agreement has helped to increase efforts on a national basis in 2015 and that the national grant scheme has increased by 20 million. NOK 135 million in total. kr for next year. Following the budgetary agreement, support for holiday measures for disadvantaged children is also increased by 2 million. kr next year. In addition, the grant scheme, which is now becoming more regulated, lower kindergarten prices and, above all, the representative Abid Raja, is free core time, which is also reinforced by the budgetary conciliation, important poverty measures. However, the National Audit Office points out that there is a need for more knowledge and competence on the consequences of poverty among children and young people in municipalities and more knowledge of measures and methods that can contribute to better opportunities for social participation for more people. This year I have commissioned the Directorate to assist municipalities in developing indicators on child poverty. This is an important work. Municipalities need to know which poor children and young people and families need action and then target their efforts. The National Audit Office writes that only one in 10 municipalities have evaluated their actions, and there is a lack of knowledge of methods and good solutions in the work. The Directorate will now consider how to establish good arenas for the exchange of experience between municipalities and non-governmental organisations in the field of child poverty. The Executive Board will also assess how the need for evaluation of actions and plans under the National Disability Grant Scheme can be implemented. Contributions to action against poverty among children, young people and families with children, managed by the Directorate of Labour, were evaluated in 2009. The evaluation showed that the interventions have contributed to the inclusion of children and young people in different activities and in social arenas. Subsidies have also led to increased awareness in municipalities of poverty and social exclusion among children and young people. The same findings were made in the 2010 evaluation of the response to poverty within the grant scheme Children’s and young people’s actions in larger urban communities, managed by the BLD. The national audit suggests that better coordination of State efforts to reduce the impact of poverty among children and young people is ensured. They recommend better cooperation between the Directorates with tasks for children and young people at risk of poverty. I am pleased that both my directorate and the Directorate of Labour have already started cooperation on grant management and work against child poverty. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and I will entrust the Directorates with the task of further developing this cooperation. We will also inform the Directorates to consider how to coordinate and simplify State grant schemes against child poverty. A large proportion of children who grow up in families with poor advice have a migrant background, which has been discussed by many. The Directorate will now assess how the IMDi can be involved and contribute to the cooperation between the other two Directorates, as also pointed out by the National Audit Office. It'll be an important job next year, so you can cooperate much better. The National Audit Office points out that there is a need to clarify in which cases financial support for recreational activities is to be provided under the Law on the Protection of Children or the Law on Social Services of Nav. We have started work on common guidelines for cooperation and sharing of responsibilities between the Child Protection Service and the Labour Directorate. Bufdir and the Directorate of Labour will be given a joint mandate to follow this up in 2015. The National Audit Office points out that the needs of the children are not adequately addressed when parents apply for social assistance. It is very important that children’s needs be looked after and cared for when families with children receive financial support from Nav. A countrywide surveillance in 2012 revealed that a number of Nav offices did not take sufficient account of children in the proceedings. Following supervision, the county councillors are now systematically following up the deviations in the municipalities. The requirement for individual assessments and management's obligation to demand and monitor the needs of children is addressed in a circular to the Law on Social Services in Nav. However, the government believes that there is an important work, and the report available from the National Audit Office will provide good working tools for what are the challenges and where we are going to put the work. We also believe that we need to strengthen the position of families in Norwegian society. Early work is therefore important, and everyone in the municipalities works across – from health centres to kindergartens, to schools, to child protection and to family protection. We have to work together to get well-functioning families, which are for the benefit of the children. Research shows that low-income families and children are at risk. The government has also announced a family announcement in the spring of 2016, where we will focus on the family's importance for children's growing-up conditions. In this communication, we will also look at measures to support the family and establish a safety net around when the family fails.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1904	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1918	I want to promote two proposals, which are distributed. The reason is that we see very well the need that this case points to, and that there is a great need for those who operate this type of transport to have the qualifications, but also the knowledge of the language and the vulnerable groups that they are set to care for that enables us, to say it like that, to have confidence in them. I've been through a lot of things since this unfortunately hasn't worked as it should, so we understand very well the need for it. The background to such a residence requirement is that a person shall have the basis for determining the assessment of the good repute of a foreign citizen when he/she is required to have a driving licence for the carriage of passengers. Nevertheless, we are presenting these two proposals, and the background is that there are objections from the hearing bodies in some areas. The Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion points out that immigrants from third countries outside the EEA are now effectively excluded from work if a driving licence is required. It's a goal for people to get to work, and these are some of the jobs that it's at least traditionally been possible to get, so the question is, do you have to have a rule as square as the one that's proposed here. The Directorate for Integration and Diversity points to the fact that the requirement to live in a Member State is, in effect, a form of professional ban on third-country nationals. That's how, I think, everyone has to agree that if it's about language or other types of good practice assessments, it could be as valid for EEA citizens as for those who come from outside the EEA, so we have a problem here anyway. We believe that there should be opportunities for a judgement on this matter, that a police record can be obtained if a former home Member State can produce credible documents that confirm good conduct. The LO also believes that the police should have the opportunity to use their discretion in assessing the length of residence for the issue of driving tickets, so we propose this. The municipality of Oslo believes that a living requirement must be combined with several material quality requirements, and we agree with that. One indicates that it will increase industry competence, and it will respond to much of the criticism that has been addressed to the taxi industry in recent years. The municipality of Oslo believes that stricter quality requirements will lead to applicants who have lived in the country for a while not being able to meet the requirements, and the municipality believes that the already existing rules on knowledge testing are insufficient regulation. Maybe language is one of the most important things to be able to do. If you're driving small children or sick people or people with developmental disabilities, and you're alone with them, you're totally dependent on being able to communicate with people, including those who might deliver a child to this transport, and those who accept this child. There have been ugly examples that both children and dents have been delivered in the wrong place and that they have not been able to communicate. So language is one of the most important things. So I'm just going to refer to the suggestions that we want to promote: ‘The government asks the government to propose a legal secret in order to enable the police to make use of discretion in order to recognise threatening police statements from third countries outside the EEA territory as a basis for the construction of driving seats before the four-year butid requirement has been met.’ And proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the ‘The government is asked to propose language and quality requirements for drivers in passenger transport that could improve the safety of drivers and passengers’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1939	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1942	I was not really going to take the floor, but when the representative here brings up completely new proposals for the committee, I have to make some clarification for the purposes of the discussion. The Committee is therefore unanimous in its position here. There has been a broad consultation on the proposal and 26 hearing bodies have made representations. There are only four who are negative, eleven of the hearing bodies support the proposal, eight have no comment, and three have both pro- and counter-arguments in their replies. What matters to us is that this is an adjustment in relation to the new law on police records that came into force. It was the case that the requirement of residence as a basis for the assessment of the good repute of foreign nationals applying for a driving licence for the carriage of passengers by road followed until 1 July 2014 the enforcement instructions of the Directorate of Police. However, after the new Police Register Act came into force, it is required that such provisions should then be governed by law or regulation. That's why this proposal lies here, to continue right away just as has been all along, and, as I said, it's a unanimous committee behind this. It is very important that we do not make this a debate on third-country nationals outside the EEA and Europe; there is no immigration debate. And it's important for us to see that there's a team in what's here with regard to the law, and that's what's been there all along. It's just that the matter itself then fell between two chairs, to say it like that, and we now have to catch it up after the new police records law came into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1951	We have been discussing this matter, but in our committee there is no SV, and SV has, as we know, made proposals on the table today, which the representative has just referred to. In the hearing that has taken place, there have been some objections to the proposal that is just going on in third countries, in view of the possibility of a right, there is, of course, a tightening up of the current situation. The proposal for an EN is intended to make it possible to make use of discretion in opening up to third countries. We also see that both large organisations such as LO and to the extent that subsidiary NHO Transport points to the deficiency contained in the proposal and points out the negative that is precisely related to these parties. So a certain embellishment, an opportunity for such an assessment, at least we in the Workers' Party make sense, so we'll go for the suggestions made by SV today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1956	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 5, 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e1994	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Green Party 5 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2005	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. There have been relatively short deadlines, and the Committee has shown great flexibility in getting everything in place within the deadline for delivery. The Committee has examined changes to the State budget for 2014 under the Ministry of Transport. In addition, it is up to us to deal with the matter. 456 and cap. 3456: Directorate for Emergency Communications under the Ministry of Justice and Defence, i.e. Necessary, and cap. 542: International ICT cooperation and development programme under the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. All three propositions are debated together, as the President himself said. There is a high degree of consensus in the Committee on most of the elements of the proposed measures submitted. So I don't want to comment on all the posts, but focus on someone selected, and especially where there's disagreement in the committee. It is gratifying that funds will be needed in 2014 to cover emergency measures both on the road and on the rail after the flood in Sogn and Fjordane and in Hordaland at the end of October. Means for the operation and maintenance of highways have been increased, while more money has been allocated to land use. In the railway sector, investment funds remain at the end of the year. Now, it is probably always the areas where these funds are used, and the government proposes to redeploy the funds to the necessary maintenance and renewal tasks. The government has increased its commitment to the maintenance of the national road and rail networks in the budget for 2015 and the maintenance run will be reduced for the first time in a long time. The balancing of the 2014 budget further strengthened this. The proposal includes some clarifications related to the toll project on both E18 and Fv. 545 and new cost framework at E39 Hove–Sandved in Rogaland. I would like to comment on these projects in more detail. As regards the extension of toll collection on the ferry link E39 Halhjem-Sandvikvåg for two new years to finance actions on fv. 545, the bulk of the population has a different view than the government. This is a project where toll collection has already been extended in two stages – the last time for two years in November 2012. In this regard, the then Central Party State Council made a profit assessment that established that 15 p.m. of the traffic used by the county road and that an extension of two years was reasonable. The 2012 option reads as follows: ‘The scope of the development will be adapted to the economic framework. Since the extension covers several smaller projects, it should not be problematic to adapt the development of available resources.’ The natural consequence of the decision in 2012 would be to close the toll collection now, as proposed by the government, and to adapt the project to the financial framework. I'm going to be the first to admit that there's a degree of discretion in such cases, but based on the assessment that the red-green government made in 2012 and that the current government has done in Prop. 32 S, is an extension by two new years, as the majority seems to go, to extend the utility principle far beyond what is reasonable, and the utility principle is very important to me in order for us to maintain the legitimacy of the tolling system. At E18 in Østfold, the government has proposed a split layer between the county, the state and the motorists to cover an additional 47 million. kr to cross-sectional measures in fv. 115. I record that the previous government did not have State resources to contribute to finding a solution. In my opinion, it would be unreasonable for the municipality to be left with the bill, and the proposal from the government should therefore be a good compromise, which I hope the district council can also agree to. On the E18 through Westfold, it is a wish of the county to be able to use the transitional arrangement and a lower calculation technical interest rate to set lower toll tariffs. It is in line with the government's policy and will provide the lowest possible rate at the earliest possible time, for example. to make more use of new E18 instead of the cross-roads and thus achieve a road safety gain. An increase in the amortisation period from 15 to 20 years has been taken into account. However, when the interest-rate compensation scheme is in place, this increase may be reversed in whole or in part. There is a local desire to review the toll stations on the local roads in connection with the E16 Kongsvinger-Slomarka. I'm not going to go into the details, but I'm pointing out that this is a significant improvement compared to the starting point. In addition, a roof of 30 passes is provided for all light vehicles, limiting the load on the driving lists. I note that the opposition has critical comments on the changes proposed on E18 and E16, without any alternative proposals being made, or anyone looking forward to voting against them. We just have to interpret this as a great deal of agreement on the amendments proposed, and that is a good starting point for voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2043	In these propositions, there are several issues, and the Ministry of Transport proposes changes to the state budget for the current year under the different programme categories. It is natural that some statements have changed over the period since the 2014 budget was adopted here in the Chamber one year ago. The working party joins most of what is proposed here, and others from my party will comment on several of these parts mentioned in the propositions, and will comment on our comments in more detail. In my article I will show you especially to the point about fv. 545 in Stord and Fitjar municipalities. Here, the Ministry of Transport believes that the extension of the toll period is not acceptable on the basis of the relationship between the use and payment. The majority of the Committee has assessed this change in its comments, and it is therefore proposed that: ‘The majority agrees that toll companies are allowed to extend the collection of tolls by two years in order to co-finance projects and actions on fv. 545 in the municipalities of Stord and Fitjar.’ The request for a toll has been drawn up in cooperation between the municipalities of Stord and Fitjar, and the municipality of Hordaland is also behind the application, while the municipality of Os is against. Compared to the cost estimates in Prop. 149 S for 2011–2012, where funding was last approved, it appears that the planned upgrades have a cost increase. The state road authority now recommends that repairs be made on f.a. 545 shall be made in accordance with the applicable normal road conditions. What makes them more expensive is, among other things, what makes them more expensive. that the distance in Fitjar is now up to date with the current road normal. The line across the municipal border is also given standard lift, with a planed yellow centre stripe. Not least the cost increase is due to the Sagvåg bridge, which was originally planned to be carried out in such a way that it has subsequently been found that it is not advisable to follow. In other words, the upgrading of fv. 545 on the west side of Great Britain, ongoing work on partial toll financing, which is now ready to be completed and thus fully financed, so that work can be carried out in accordance with current road standards, and to a standard that provides the necessary traffic flow and road safety. Today is fv. 545 only E39 on Great Britain when E39 must be closed and today's e.g. 545 is not dimensioned to be able to take away the amount of traffic on the E39 in case of planned and acute closures. As long as there is traffic at the closure of E39 which represents the highest risk to road safety on fv. 545, it would be reasonable that there would be useful tolls to repair. Unfortunately, at times the E39 has to be shut down in case of major traffic accidents, or when something happens to the road itself. In addition, planned closures are targeted by major upgrades to the E39 itself. There have been several periods in recent years, and major upgrades are also planned that can be done easily when the road is connected. In addition, it must be noted that the decision on the future free of ferry E39 between Stord and Bergen will mean that even more of the main traffic in construction periods will have to go west of Stordøya. Let me also remind you that the ferries, which run on an hourly frequency between Halhjem in Os and Sandvikvåg in Fitjar, have space for well over 200 cars. When a whole ferryload of cars comes running from the ferry, and in addition, it has to meet and pass an equal amount of cars that come from the other way, and that are supposed to carry a ferry, yes, it says that the road they are going to run on, and that they are going to pass each other on, must have a certain standard and a certain width. The goal to do fv. 545 to a safe route for E39 cannot be realised without the planned projects being implemented. Such use of tolls must also be in line with the principle of use, and I have not been hurt at all by the fact that 14 kroner of a car ticket for over 200 kroner have gone to this purpose. I am therefore pleased that a multiple here in Stortinget is going for an extension, so that fv. 545 now can be completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2067	This is a balancing, a regulation, an adjustment – it almost sounds like Pompel and Pilt. But that's what we have now. It's all the unforeseen things that happen in a year, and at the end of the year we have to do this aging. Take, for example, the flood in the West. It is clear that it is required to take some action within the framework set out in the decision last December. For example, we also see the need for capital for the operation of railways, rather than investment capital that has not been able to be used. Such adjustments take place each December. So there's not so much to say about this, but I just want to make it clear: an entire committee notices that the establishment of a road development company is on the stairs. The same applies to this interim board. There's nothing more to say -- I don't have to take the time out anymore than that. This is a good balancing, and it has to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2076	I would like to comment on a few of the measures mentioned in Prop. 32 S. I would also refer to the rapporteur's examination. First of all, it's fv. 545 in Stord and Fitjar municipalities in Hordaland. These municipalities want to continue the toll collection on the ferry link at E39 Halhjem-Sandvikvåg for two new years to finance the measures under Fv. 545. In the Christian People's Party, we have noticed that this is an extension that both Hordaland County and the State Road Administration recommend. From the Ministry’s point of view, a question has been asked — and we think it is wise to do so — whether, on the basis of the principle of usefulness, it is advisable to extend the toll regime further, and one has concluded in the recommendation to Stortinget that it should be rejected. When the Christian People's Party is going in today to say yes to further expansion by two new years, it is not that the principle of usefulness is not important to us. The original toll package included four projects on fv. 545. These have become significantly more expensive than the initial cost estimate. Together with a standard highlight for the cross-border route, which was necessary for the implementation of the yellow mid-strip, there is now no means to implement the original project. Furthermore, traffic measurements show that about 15 pst. by those who pay tolls on Halhjem-Sandvikvåg ferries, are directly benefiting from the improvements on the county road on a daily basis. For several years, those using the county road did not benefit directly from the toll collection, as the measures for Fv. 545 were not included in the package from start-up in 2002. In our opinion, therefore, it is not unreasonable to have a small extension of the toll period in order to make the necessary and planned improvements on this road, which, after all, has approx. 15 pst. of the vehicles from the ferry. There's also reason to notice that fv. 545 is the only bypass for E39 over Stord. With the standard that the county road has today, it is not dimensioned in order to avoid the volume of traffic on E39 by possible temporary closure, which has also been addressed by previous speakers. At the time of closure, the safety of pedestrians and cyclists will be impaired. The county road today is narrow and missing the pedestrian and cycle path. The plans currently in place are to be set up precisely on parts of the route, and one will thus make the road safer. As long as there is traffic at the time of closure of E39 which would pose the highest risk to road safety in fv. 545, in the view of the Christian People's Party, it would be reasonable that tolls would be used to repair the county road. When measures that have been planned for a long time to do fv. 545 traffic safety, not feasible without an extension of the collection period, is this important factual information that has been conclusive in that we in the Christian People's Party believe that the utility principle of the proposal for an extension of the collection period of two years is sufficiently respected. We therefore support the majority proposal from the vote on this point. Otherwise we notice that for rail purposes it is a proposal to increase the allocation for operation and maintenance, cap. 1350, Railway Station, item 23, including a total of 225 million. kr. The reason is that the progress of some investment projects in 2014 has been lower than that foreseen in the budget proposal, so that item 30, Investments in the line, is reduced by 257 million. kr. The strengthening of the operation and maintenance of the rail system is probably few who disagree, but I have to express some wonder that it should not be possible to have a planning portfolio in place for investments that allow a full use of the funds allocated by the Stortinget to be made available for 2014. As we have been presented with the challenges in the rail sector, investment projects have almost been in line, there has been a lack of money to get a completely necessary update that can contribute to increasing punctuality in order to make the train more attractive for more travellers. I hope that for the future one can have so many plans on the part of the Railway Agency that future funds for investment can be used to the full.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2099	I will just add a few considerations to the changes in the State budget in the Ministry of Transport for 2014. The centre party subscribes to the proposals that exist, but has some critical comments in the case, as indicated by the suspension. In the view of the Centre Party, it is important that we be able to follow up the appropriations for the flood damage in the West in the autumn, and there are proposals to do so. It's set at 10 million. kr for emergency measures during and immediately after the flood. It is important that we continue to follow up with the necessary appropriations to repair and prevent new flood damage. It is important that we both manage to prevent race and that we can be quick to take action to correct it when it happens. There is no doubt that it is quite demanding for those living in areas where it is exposed. It is also demanding for business with a view to predictability of transport. So racial security is an incredibly important area that we must prioritise in the future. The centre party is very positive that the government is following up what was in the national transport plan to streamline the toll sector and reduce the number of toll companies. It was one of the things that the national transport plan pointed out very clearly. That you follow it up so well, we are satisfied with it, and we believe that it will be a good tool in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2112	SV is not in the Committee on Transport, so we have to explain how we will vote. In this case, we will vote in favour of the vote, but I need to make a explanation of vote on the Roman Numeral Decision I. There are very many good proposals for re-priorities in this Roman Numeral Decision, for which SV supports and will vote, but SV is opposed to the start-up of the E18 Ramstadsletta–Lysaker. We will therefore be in the new age of 2014, which is due to take place on Thursday, to propose that the E18 Ramstadsletta-Lysaker should be supported. It is a prerequisite for our vote today. We're also going to support VII. Otherwise, I have only one short comment, and it concerns the route E16 Kongswinger–Slomarka, to which there are quite a number of comments attached. This applies to the principle of whether tolls are to be paid when you do not use the road. SV is for tolls, but we think it's a very difficult principle, and it makes it very difficult to accept it when people who are actually not going to use the road are required to pay tolls. It's hard to defend it, I think. Here I think we need to make more effort to avoid that. You can probably argue that even those who live like that get a relief on the road they use have some use of the new road. I can see that is a point, but I understand those who have not intended to use the road at all, and who still have to pay tolls for it. It would also be completely backwards for them to use that road. I was born and raised in that area, so I know the area very well. So I think we have to look at how we can get arrangements that make the toll collection we have feel quite fair and fair, and that those who use the road pay for it, while those who don't use the road don't pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2119	This is a new aging without much drama. Some adjustments are made in the railway sector, simply because one cannot spend all the money on some investment projects. I understand the wish of the representative Gruvan that someone could then see if it was possible to start new investment projects, but it is once again that many investment projects will have a duration of more than one year. And when we start new projects, we need to be clear that we're also going to fully fund new projects, so that they get started as best they can. That's why I think it's a sensible approach that if you have money left over, they're channelled into maintenance that you can carry out in one year. Then you do not incur any new obligations that the Stortinget has not already incurred in the 2015 budget. Then we work, and the government and the Storting decided to double the planning funds and almost a five-fold increase in the planning funds for the railway sector just because we have more ambitions in the railway sector and the road sector than the previous government. But we're going to do those projects well prepared – not randomly and depending on whether there's money left in the account at the end of the year. I am very happy that one on the road side supports that we can go further with the E39 Hove–Sandved. It is an important road project on which there were cost exceedances, which meant that we had to enter the Storting in order to get a new acceptance. We get that acceptance now, and then we can move on. I think it is interesting that some representatives from the opposition parties believe that the government could ignore Stortinget in this matter this summer and still conclude contracts. In that case, there is an authority I hope can be made clear in decisions in the future, because the government will not get along that way. It is important that the Storting follow up on the decisions it has made, and we shall continue to do so. On some toll projects, we have proposed changes. We have proposed to remove the toll percentage on the ferry at E39 Halhjem–Sandvikvåg, simply because this government has said we should bring down the toll percentage. I think it's a little strange when some, especially from the opposition in many debates, believe that the government has not removed tolls quickly enough, that when a person actually gets proposals for the Storting, he chooses to vote it down. It shows a double communication and not a very principleal approach. There is an increase in the appropriations for county roads in the budget. There is an improvement in the interest-rate compensation scheme, which makes it possible to raise these projects above county budgets instead of driving them as increased taxes on the drivers. But of course, we'll deal with the decision that the majority of the population is making. I note that there have been some comments about E16 Kongsvinger–Slomarka. I would like to remind you that this matter was decided by the previous government, three to four years ago. Then there was no suggestion to exempt people either on Galterud or Fulu from the bombing costs they would have been charged. I am recording that the parties that adopted it are now all of a sudden very concerned about creating derogations. We have set a pass-by roof of 30, while the previous government made it possible for one to remove all sorts of discounts and have a pass-by roof of 60. So one will only get half of the load compared to what the previous majority tried to put on them. But it's very good if more people are concerned that tolls are also a burden on people's wallets. I record that we get positive comments on the toll reform we're working on. We'll get it back to Stortinget in the course of the year we have ahead of us. The government has proposed to reduce tariffs at E18 through Westfold, in order to give a taste of what the toll reform can mean. This means that you have said that you need to temporarily extend the amortisation period to have a lower rate, but the objective is that when you get the toll reform in place, it will reduce time again, from 20 years to 15 years. I still record that there is a bit of discussion in the setting. Let me stress that if a driver has to pay NOK 88 for 15 years, he has a total cost of NOK 1 320. If the driver has to pay 57 kroner for 20 years, he gets away with $1,140. So it's a 14 pst reduction. during the lifetime. So the drivers get cheaper away with the scheme we're suggesting. Finally, in the case of Eastfold: in fv. 115 agreed to move on some funds to a project, which then got an exceedance, an extra cost of 47 million. kr. I record that the previous government did not try to do anything to correct this. The government of the day has initiated a process. We had an understanding of that 16 million. kr was enough to solve this, but now it turns out that this is not the case, so we are working in line with the majority that signaled in the setting, to continue to find a solution to this. But at least I'm happy to represent a government that's trying to solve this, and that's not just putting it in a drawer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2142	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2145	I Prop. 32 S is extended by five years, from 15 to 20 years for E18 throughout Westfold. This is done in order to reduce the tolls from NOK 88 to NOK 57. The advance party decided that they would remove all the toll stations. Reality is a completely different one. The bombometer for TV 2 is about to show $9.5 billion. kr. The Progress Party Minister has also presented new road projects with nearly 10 billion. kr in new toll projects. So when you haven't done what you chose, you come up with alternative suggestions that give more in total in tolls to the drivers in Westfold. TV 2 has estimated the extra cost of 1.8 billion. NOK in extra costs. I have registered that the minister has claimed that this calculation is wrong, and my question is then: What is the total cost for the drivers by extending the toll collection by five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2155	Interestingly, TV 2's bombers are being picked up, because that just shows the extent of toll projects that were adopted under the previous government. Today's government has removed tolls on seven sections, we've allocated money to reduce debt in several projects, which can bring down tariffs or downtime, and we're working on a toll reform that aims to reduce this further. I record that in today's debate, the Workers' Party is going against removing tolls somewhere, so that it criticises the government for not doing, votes for itself and agrees to create a majority in order not to happen. In the case of E18 in Westfold, there is a road safety measure, essentially a road safety measure, for which all parties in Westfold see the necessity but for which, unfortunately, the Workers' Party and the Centre have played a risk here. For me, it's important to try to steer the traffic away from schools, kindergartens and tradesmen, which we'll get at just by having a lower rate. What we're also looking at is that the dynamics of getting a lower rate means that more people will choose to use the motorway instead of the local roads, and that makes sense, and then one also gets a lot of the money that a loses not to have higher bomb fares.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2164	I record that the minister has not made the Progress Party calculator work and will not give me any figures. The government has also announced a proposal for an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans, as he also said in his contribution. The working party is in favour of discussing and looking at reasonable changes and adjustments in the calculation of interest rates for toll loans. We've already shown that in several things. But with regard to the new interest-rate compensation scheme, we are awaiting a case on that. This looks like a new and bureaucratic way to sort this out, which you could have solved by increasing the appropriations. Because compensation must necessarily be collected from the State budget, and there would have been a real opportunity to discuss whether the extra money should have gone to more roads and more roads. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister: When will the matter of the interest compensation scheme come to the Grand Duchy? And how is it to be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2171	As I said in my post, this will come to the Stortinget during 2015, and of course, as all the other grip the state does, this will be financed from the state budget. I'm very happy if the Workers' Party supports this, but it hasn't exactly been a very clear, principled line through what the Workers' Party promotes. Because in this setting, the Workers' Party argues that what the Workers' Party wrote in the NTP setting, namely to have uniform tariff and discount arrangements, should actually be related to what the Workers' Party wrote. Then one comes to the matter of E16. Then suddenly a uniform tariff and discount system shall cease to exist. It's unprincipled. For Fv. 545 the Workers' Party has talked for a long time about having the principle of utility at the bottom, but on this project it no longer applies. It's unprincipled. With regard to the E18 in Westfold, we have said that we should extend the amortisation period as a temporary measure, with the objective of a complete reform. This is a taste of what the reform can do: it will mean that one will get lower fares, more traffic on the road, less on the side roads. So the Labour Party has no alternative proposals, but nevertheless they challenge and are critical in the Chamber. That's why it would be interesting if the Workers' Party used the speaking time to say what they actually want, and not just criticise everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2180	Under strong doubt, the President shall give the floor to a third line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2183	Just briefly: The claim here is that it is almost such that the Workers' Party does not want to build a road. That's actually the opposite, that's what we're saying -- that in one case you should also open up that principle. Here the Minister has followed a principle that only goes to reduce tariffs or cut down on the collection period. I also record that the Minister will not answer how he is going to finance this interest compensation scheme, so I would like to ask him again: is there any calculation of how much this represents in interest compensation? And how will this be financed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2190	This is the third question I now got – I got both of the previous questions signed out, but the questioner later asked as if he did not get an answer. So I said that the interest compensation scheme would be promoted in 2015. I said it would be financed by the state budget. This means that there will be a priority in the state budget. Then I also record that the Workers' Party is adding up to a debate where one should be critical of not getting rid of tolls – this is something that the Advance Party should be ashamed of, but the Workers' Party is going to fight with beaks and scratches to reduce tolls because one would rather use the money differently. There is a discussion that I accept with open arms, but it again shows that, just as in its alternative budget, the Workers' Party has to increase taxes and taxes by 10 or 13 billion. kr – depending on how the Labour Party calculator works – and funding additional actions, rather than showing a willingness to finance within the budgetary framework laid down by the Government. The same applies to tolls: this government builds more roads and more maintenance than the previous government, and we do so with less tolls and lower car charges. It's about prioritizing, and it's about pursuing good politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2197	The councils are right that he and this government cut tolls. Since they joined the government, they cut tolls as far as I have found out – that is, tolls were saved for the Billistan based on new policies – SEK 1.65 billion. kr. At the same time, they have also submitted to us – we have agreed, and they have recommended – increasing tolls to 9.741 billion. kr. So, net 8.91 billion. kr more in tolls, people who run a car will pay now after they get into government. Route 545 Fitjar-Stord is being brought forward as the major cause – 49.5 million. kr. We hear from the Council that the Labour Party is unprincipled. It looks like there's a multiple in this room that goes in for this. Is the bulk of the population unprincipled, according to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2204	The majority of the population is not unprincipled. I referred here to four different toll cases in which the Workers' Party has taken a contradictory position in all four cases. It's unprincipled. What the other parties have done, on the other hand, is to have a clear line in all four cases, which in this Fitjar case means increased tolls. But now I have again been challenged – for the fourth time – by the Workers' Party in this Chamber on why the Progress Party in the Government does not contribute to lower toll tariffs, while the Workers' Party is very pleased that the bulk of the toll is opposed to removing tolls. Then the Labour Party here must start to say what they themselves mean. Do you want to reduce toll tariffs and work with the government to get to what we have proposed, or do you think you should not reduce toll tariffs? Then a rather flag should flag that position instead of trying to play all over the track. It's kind of interesting that when we, for example, discussed E16 Kongswinger-Slomarka, so the previous government had not put in a single mitigating circumstance for the inhabitants there, but now they are suddenly very concerned about it. Then my curious thought is, what has the Workers' Party seen now, as they didn't see when they actually had power and control themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2213	Unit for row number two, which is then the fifth line of the Workers' Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2216	I have not challenged the Council of State on this; I have read and referenced sums based on what we have calculated in a row, after the Progress Party came into government. Then I didn't think it was right to take this back on us. My main point is that in this 545 case, we have argued that we should take care of the principle of utility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2221	I hear what the Labour Party argues with now, and then I just remind you that in the proposition they themselves made a couple of years ago about the exact same thing, when they put in government, the argument was the opposite. That's where it becomes unprincipled, when one in government had one argument for one position, while one in opposition has chosen a completely different one, and when the principle varies from case to case. But it is absolutely right that the Progress Party has gone to the choice of lower toll tariffs. We've been alone about it. We are sitting in a government that has nevertheless said we should build more roads than what was planned, and have lower toll rates than what was planned. I think it's pretty good for a party that has 29 representatives in Stortinget, to actually be able to win on a number of issues in which 140 representatives believe the opposite. It also means that we have to swallow a lot of tolls, that's the way it is, but I also think the Workers' Party knows that you have to give and take when to sit and rule. Anyway, I think it's pretty good when the Workers' Party also sums up that the drivers have saved over a billion dollars in tolls, which they would not have saved for the previous government, simply because we have a new government that thinks differently. With the toll reform in progress, these benefits will be even greater for the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2234	The Progress Party opted for a crystal clear no for the use of tolls to finance road development – not at lower rates, as the Minister has just said. After the election you can see that the tone is different. As I mentioned in the line change: The bomber, which runs on TV 2, shows that it is soon required to collect $9.5 billion. kr in tolls with the Advance Party of Government. Now the minister, as he did so far, will probably claim that these projects were in progress before they entered the government, and that is largely correct. But, as I also said in the line change: Since the new government joined, there have been new toll projects from today's minister in almost 10 billion. kr. In addition, we see that we have opened up a new principle by allowing for longer collection time to get lower rates per pass. This is going to be completely more expensive for the drivers, and at least there's no way out of this. A clear example of this is what we are considering today, the E18 through Vestfold, which has been proposed to extend from 15 to 20 years. It is open for a further five years with tolls – this in order to bring down the toll tariffs from 88 to 57 kroner throughout the county. This will mean that the drivers will have to pay more in total in tolls than foreseen, at E18 through Vestfold, and that is because five additional years will entail additional administrative and financial costs for the toll project. TV 2 has calculated this and claims that the project is going to be 1.8 billion. are more expensive for the drivers. I have registered that the Council of State has claimed that the calculation is wrong, but I have not yet seen any alternative sum from the Minister's calculator, even today when he was challenged on it. But someone has to pay this toll bill. That's what the leader of the North Light wrote in his article 21 September this year: ‘A billion is a billion, no matter how it is lured forward.’ And he ended his leader with: ‘It’s about a toll bill that we can’t run from. Someone has to pay. Some are all of us." I am aware that the government will bring about a toll reform, which has been notified of grips such as: the aggregation of toll companies and changes in the calculation technical interest rate for toll collection. This is – as we have said several times – the working party in favour. Several of these measures were also presented by the red-green government in the context of the national transport plan, which was adopted in June last year. But the savings here won't give any more way if you just open up to cut the rates corresponding to this saving. Therefore, the Workers' Party wants you to also open up to assess more ways for this money. A good example of this is Stortinget's treatment of the Bodø package. Then the minister will probably come up with a promise of a coming interest-rate compensation scheme, which he has also done today, but what does this really mean? Well, that must mean increasing the appropriations for transport corresponding to the interest expenditure to be subsidized by the State. It will in turn mean billions that must be covered by the State budget, which was confirmed several times by the Minister during the change of line. This would be money that could have been spent on more roads and roads. Would it not then simply have been simpler and less bureaucratic to give more money to travel? But so far, there has been the most talk of a coming government interest compensation scheme, with no clear content of what the scheme should involve. The Labour Party therefore looks forward to the Government actually introducing the proposal for an interest-rate compensation scheme for toll loans. The working party is in favour of discussing and looking at reasonable changes and adjustments to the calculation technical interest rate for toll loans, as we did, for example. in the town package Bodø. But we have noticed that the government only wants to use this for lower toll rates, or for faster toll downtime projects. The working party wants to know that you can also use the opportunity room for more money. There is no new principle that the Minister is trying to come along with. It is a clear message from the Workers' Party that you want the option. We want the best way for the money, and that is after all the most important thing for the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2259	The climate impacts of floods and outbursts have made the need for maintenance and preventative reinforcements of roads and train lines more urgent. The year 2014 showed how necessary it is and how challenging it can be. I would also like to stress in this context that emergency plans for alternative transport modes and routes are more important than ever. As the rapporteur mentioned in his statement, it is gratifying that in 2014 the necessary funds will be put in place to cover emergency measures both on the road and rail after the flood in Sogn and Fjordane and Hordaland at the end of October. It is positive that there are funds to increase the appropriations for Chapter 1350 of the Railway Agency for Operation and Maintenance by a total of 225 million. kr. We accept that not all projects have been targeted in 2014, but there is every reason to continue the strong commitment that we are actually making. Road and rail development affects many landowners – small and large. Many people have learned that it can take a long time from the time it becomes reasonably clear which properties are to be redeemed until it actually happens. This means that many people have learned that they are missing out on the possibility of getting a new home – when the chance arises. Under the rules in force, redemption shall be carried out in accordance with the approved regulatory plan. In connection with the land acquisition of E18 Ramstadsletta-Lysaker, the Ministry has given the State Road Administration the opportunity to start normal land acquisitions on the basis of an approved municipal plan. The municipal sub-plan for the route has now been adopted and the department proposes 40 million. kr for this purpose. This is positive for the affected landowners living along the E18 West Corridor – but also for the State Road Service, who have the opportunity to purchase properties put out for sale for replacement homes for those who are losing their homes. The use of tolls raises many fundamental questions. The most urgent thing is to use tolls to finance infrastructure at all. I will leave this, as it is not part of this matter. On the other hand, there are three other principles that travel. An ever-increasing issue of toll financing is the delimitation of measures to be financed by tolls. On several occasions, the size has shown the usefulness of this principle. This implies consistency between the projects financed and the number of drivers actually running both on the local road and through the toll station. I know that earlier rv. 152 from rv. 23, Oslofjord tunnel to Frogn, could not get money from the Oslofjord project because formerly rv. 152 did not have enough traffic through the tunnel. The utility principle will be put under further pressure in the development of major road projects such as E6 and E39. It is therefore important that a person assumes that the practices he practices must not discriminate in these kinds of cases. The second principle is the amortisation time. Here, the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party and the Centre have been problematicalizing the extension of the recovery period of E18 through Vestfold, because the increased recovery period of five years also means that additional administrative and financial costs are incurred for the toll project for five years. This could be true. I still think you have to ask yourself whether it is right that today's drivers should pay a disproportionate price for projects that have such a long life. It must be legitimate to use extended collection time to reduce the annual costs of the drivers. The third is the use of a calculation rate, which is above both the floating rate and the fixed rate for loans with a county guarantee. Such practices, of course, involve a reduction in the risk of borrowing. The result is that most of the projects are disbursed in advance. But here, too, we are facing the issue of whether it is desirable that today's drivers pay overprice for a long-term project.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2280	This position on cross-roads measures in Eastfold in the context of the E18 development reads that the Right and the Advance Party believe that it can be justified that parts of these costs are partly financed by state resources, and one considers that a third, as proposed in Prop. 32 S, would be a good and reasonable way to solve the matter. It was difficult to believe what you read when you know the history and promises of the Right Party and the Advance Party in this matter. When true, the Christian People's Party was also high on the track along with the Advancement Party and the Right in this matter, but I record that the Christian People's Party now suddenly does not believe anything about this, except that they refer to a letter from the Council of State. This is 47 million. kr in total, and I am more than amazed at the wording of the Right and the Advance Party on a third, when it is no more than approx. a year and a half since the same parties thought it was a great shame and a great dishonesty and what was worse, from the side of the red-green government, which did not immediately take the full bill of 47 million. kr. Now the Progress Party and the Right have had more than one year to fix this matter. So they have no ability to do that, even though they have more money than any other government has ever done. From the Right and Advance Party, there was not a pipe to hear about a third at the time, or that this could possibly be included with the extended use of tolls, one and a half years ago. What we heard at the time from the Right and the Advancement Party was that only they came to power, only they got government power, if only they had run the Department of Transportation, it would be a different dance. Then the bill was to be taken entirely by the state, with fresh money right from the state treasury. Even the bombs on the E18 were to be demolished rather, it was a party that meant. The Right Party and the Advance Party were the guarantor that the State would take the bill, so the municipalities at that time, and the county municipalities now, would escape. That guarantee was no value in it. Now it's obviously going to be a different time. Now the Right and Advance Party believe that it is time to split the bill. Now they believe, that is, the members of the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Committee, that part of these costs can be defended by state resources, and believe that a third – as proposed – will be a good way of resolving the matter. So now the Progress Party and the Right want Eastfold County Municipality to take two of these three parts in practice. Now, the Progress Party believes that the E18 drivers can be hit for even more tolls at the E18 in Østfold. Not many saw from the Progress Party a year and a half ago. So now the Progress Party has become a solid toll party also in Eastfold, it's worth noting. As far as I understand, Eastfold County does not agree with the proposal that they should take two of these three parts. First, they shall take it by their own so-called free means, and then they shall take it by increasing the use of tolls through their own company. I have understood that this is not the Eastfold County Municipality particularly pleased. That the government and the Minister for Transport are not now following up what they thought so clearly before the elections and promised the voters before the elections, is such a clear-cut break that it cannot be explained out, although I am absolutely sure that they will try, and they will do as best they can. I sat and listened to the Council of State's assurances that the toll percentage is going down. In this context, it becomes purely political fog talk, which well qualifies for a long stay in a political scandalous hook.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2295	In this proposition, I have noted that the government wants it to be organised in order to establish a road development company in 2015, and that it will be operational with the planning and development of a concrete national road project as soon as possible after it is set up. There is an important work being undertaken by the government, linked to the reorganisation and efficiency of the road sector. There is a need for good organisation so that the necessary measures for faster planning and development can be implemented as quickly as possible. The background to the establishment of a road carrier is that today's structures are not effective enough, and that the planning time is too long. In the Right, we believe that a road transport company, in combination with other measures, will be able to ensure more efficient development and increase the socio-economic benefit of our road investment. Properly set up, such a company will be able to speed up the implementation of important road projects. The road company is an important part of the government’s signaled reform work for the road sector, and I would like to point out that success depends also on other change measures, including: linked to financing. The past eight years have seen a large increase in road tolls. Tolls have become an industry of growth pain, where neither the Directorate of Road, the State Road Service nor the actors have arranged a good enough framework for a development with customer-friendly solutions where we can ensure the most possible way for money. A reorganization of the toll burn has been signaled for a long time. But under the red-green it wasn't well enough distributed, and nothing was done. Tolls have become an important part of road financing in Norway. There is a high time for a more holistic assessment where a link is drawn between different efficiency measures. I'm glad the government is now taking hold. We need action – because without a clear signal it is impossible to move in the right direction. If road carriers and OPS solutions are to be able to succeed in implementing sound and cost-effective projects, the basis for this must be clear framework, good role-sharing and not least through a clearly communicated common objective. I look forward to the outcome of a reorganization that provides all actors with both incentives and opportunities to implement planning, construction, financing and collection as efficiently and customer-friendly as possible. We'll see more ways for the money!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2312	Saturday was a big day for Stange and Eidsvoll, for Hedmark and Akershus, yes, for the whole inland: it was opening new E6 along Mjösa. The Minister of Transport cut the cord, and it without scruples. But the Minister of Transport is an expensive man to visit. Before he came to visit Strandluckja on Saturday, it cost 57 kroner in tolls to drive between Jessheim and Hamar. When he had traveled, it cost 97 kroner! I repeat: NOK 97. Seven of you. That's an increase of over 70 pst. It was imperative to get something done with E6. The road had many accidents — also very many fatal accidents. It had to be built a new road, and the majority in Hedmark, in Akershus and here on Stortinget realized that the road would be built faster with tolls. It was not a popular case, but the majority stood in it, both in the 2009 election campaign, in 2011 and in 2013. Of course, the party of progress did not. No, for they promised free road: zero in tolls on E6. And not only that – in the whole country there would be zero in tolls. Yes, it was even signaled that local party traps in the Progress Party that went into toll projects could be excluded. So now they're increasing the toll by 70 pst, and the Minister of Transport is apparently proud of it. The party of progress has to be the pickle of the century. The promise was nothing worth, it was cheating and deception. And where are the representatives of the Progress Party as promised toll-free E6? They're like sunk in the ground, it's completely silent. Cut in tolls instead became the strongest increase in time, over 70 pst. And where's Bård Hoksrud in the case? Yes, let me quote what he says to Rome's magazine today: ‘Frp realizes that we do not have a majority on the Stortinget, and therefore we cannot carry out our election vow in this area. Recently, the Right and Frp were overrun by the bulk of the population, who wanted to continue a toll project on Fylkesvej 545 between Fitjar and Stord.» Poor little Progress Party that doesn't get its will from the big, bad big bang. But the Fitjar-Stord case has nothing to do with E6 in Hedmark and Akershus. And if the government and the Minister of Transport would have changed the toll on E6, they could have suggested it. In the case that we are dealing with today, several toll projects are being modified. Measures are mentioned at E39, E18, E16, but there is not a single word in the case of E6. The Minister of Transport says that someone is unprincipled. I wonder who's unprincipled: not one word about E6 is in the proposition. A decision in the Stortinget stands before a different decision is taken. The truth is that the government and the Minister of Transport will not change the toll scheme, but will instead ride two horses: both take credit for a new road and preach that they are against tolls. The blow is complete, and let us not forget that the Progress Party voted against the new double track on the Dovrebanen, which is being built in parallel with E6, when the case was dealt with in Stortinget in 2011 – the right would otherwise postpone the case. On Saturday, the Minister of Transport at Strandlykja and the chat was hot for the double track that he sailed, so he was against in 2011. Just right: some places in the country are some smaller toll projects neglected, and elsewhere the toll tariffs have been reduced, with the result that the recovery time is considerably longer. According to the State budget, the government has reduced the use of tolls by 1.6 billion. kr in different road projects since they joined. But they're not so eager to say that in the same period new road projects have been adopted, with a total toll ratio of 9.7 billion. kr – an increase of 8.1 billion. kr – with a Minister for Transport from the Progress Party. We find that people are thoroughly tricked: People in Hedmark and Akershus don't get free E6, they don't even get cheaper roads, but they get the increase in toll rates of over 70 pst. Minister of Tompengeminister Ketil Solvik-Olsen is an expensive man to visit. People have to take good care of the wallet when he's in the mail.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2335	The President would point out that words such as ‘bløff’, ‘jux’ and ‘deceive’ are enough in the border country for what is parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2338	I would like to remind you that I myself was clubbed down last year – by that president – to talk about something that was not in the case papers, but I record that the representative Myrli talked for 5 minutes about a matter that is not in the case papers. Otherwise I think it's been an interesting sequence. This is almost like being at a dialogue seminar with Jonas Gahr and Støre! The Labour Party therefore criticises us in the same matter that we do not take in more tolls, while other representatives from the same party criticize us for not releasing toll loads. So my tip is that instead of drawing out an almost unanimous case with four different contributions with conflicting arguments, it might be an idea to take the disagreement at the group meetings first and clarify a line of reasoning that is more complete until the next time we gather to debate a matter that almost everyone agrees on. Today's case shows why it is important for the drivers that there are representatives in the government who are concerned about providing a cheaper everyday life. The government proposed to stop the toll collection on that ferry in Hordaland, which would provide a saving of 27 kroner per truck and 127 kroner per truck. The toll collection has been expanded twice, and the previous government in 2012 believed that two more years should be enough. It is therefore regrettable to see that the red-green parties today, together with the Left and Christian People's Party, form a majority and once again resort to the easiest way out, namely to move the cost over to the drivers. Here, these parties charge travellers to pay for a way they do not use, and I had a sincere belief that the majority would stand by their decision to extend only two years and to focus on the principle of usefulness in this matter. It is disappointing to see how eager the majority is to collect tolls, which shows that the drivers who are engaged in lower tolls depend on having the Advance Party in government. Also, in some of the other cases, we see that we only find good solutions when we have politicians in positions that are concerned with both the utility principle and the lowest possible toll share for the drivers. At the E18 in Vestfold, the Ministry of Transport, in line with local needs, has taken action to reduce the bomb charges from 88 kroner per pass – as the red-green thought was a reasonable price – to 57 kroner per pass. Despite major protests from both the Workers' Party and the Center Party, among others. in a lookout on TV 2, reading articles and blog posts, about how bad political craftsmanship this is, I record that both parties agree with this here today – although I have to admit that after Juvik’s post I am somewhat in doubt whether the Workers’ Party is really in favour or against. I would also like to remind you that a former State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport has repeatedly pointed out that they themselves assessed the solution that is on the table today, but they chose to say no. But only one year after they left the government, they no longer dare stand by their own policies and they do not propose that there should still be $88 per bombing. That's good, and I think it's positive that we get the majority of us to create a cheaper everyday life for the drivers, but then I think the red-green parties can be so tidy that they don't leave us to criticize for what they themselves vote for. I have also noted that the red-greens now vote for the new location of toll stations in Hedmark, in a matter where the utility principle is strong, and where the toll burden would be excessive for large parts of the local population. Here, too, the Ministry of Transport's work is in line with local wishes, but go against what the red-green government put up for. Nevertheless, the red-greens now vote for it, and they use strongly the opposite argument than the representative Rommetveit did when he spoke about the case on Fitjar. So it was not – from the red-green government – added to some exceptions or tolling schemes for the inhabitants of the area around Fulu and Knutsrud, but we have managed to find a solution that the community is satisfied with. I note that the red-green representatives must therefore be satisfied that their own decision is not being implemented, as they today vote in favour of the government's proposal. It shows that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the Centre should be pleased that the Progress Party is in government, so that they can be in favour of our solutions and not see their own bad proposals for solutions implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2359	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2362	In the 2013 government declaration debate, Prime Minister Erna Solberg underlined the following: «We look forward to a period when the Stortinget is strengthened as a political workshop, and we look forward to the changes of words that follow. And then we're going to assume that you do what you say, that is to say, you're going to vote for what you're in favour of. [[...]] But it wasn't like that. The party votes for what they are against, and spends a lot of energy on it, cf. also the representative Steffensen before me. They use as an excuse that they don't have a majority in this room. They didn't have that in the last period either. So they voted against it, even though they knew that they would not get a pass either. Why don't they do it now? And they're talking about being principled. It is a special day when we are discussing tolls at all today. In connection with appeals and speeches – with the microphone on e.g. full force – from the last election campaign I have found recordings where Siv Jensen shouts out to the people: When we come to power, there will be a big sign with "free" on at all toll stations in Norway. Today she is the country's finance minister. We've heard Per Sandberg say we have to end the herb. The Advance Party's Board Hoksrud was going to put ultimatum in the case to go into government, because it had to end that one skinned and ransacked the motorists – highway robbery, as he called it. I have asked the Minister for Transport in the past whether demanding tolls is still an order, but I have not received an answer. When the Minister for Transport was a bigotry representative, in the last period, he often took part in toll debates. If I don't remember completely wrong, he came into the hall – it is possible he was called – when the speaking time of Bård Hoksrud and Arne Sortevik began to run out into the sand. He told us of course how terriblely unfair it was with tolls, but one of his firm arguments was how bad it was that we borrowed money to Germany at a very cheap rate, so they could build cheap roads – instead of using the same money here at home to build roads without a bomb. No matter how many times he was told that it was not about loans, but about debt securities and investment in the State pension fund abroad, it was not about him. So I'm assuming that the government has now gotten rid of the loans mentioned, or that they will do it as quickly as possible, so that they can spend more money on the way here at home. Back to the bomb debate. It's almost incredible to hear from the State Council of the Advance Party when he's faced with bombings. Then he uses most of the time to attack the Workers' Party to be unprincipled. Does this mean that the State Council itself believes that the Progress Party – with what they thought before the elections compared with what they now believe – is principled?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2380	I'm going to end this debate that's really gone off track, to use railway terminology. It's like this country that we don't work in a continuous system, but we build bit by bit. What's happening on the E6 is that you're implementing a project that's been adopted quite many years ago, and where it was already clear at the beginning that you were going to get a stretchy payment of bombs. It has always been discussed how much people who travel from Oslo to Hamar are going to pay on that bombing route. It's always been a theme. They've said that's what we call road pricing. This means that you set up new toll stations for each time you build a new section, and that's what the drivers have to pay. The truth is that neither does the red-green government have anything to boast about, because they have used the cars as a purse in the last few years. I suggested that you open the previous parcel on E6, that you have a driver cut the string on that project. There's something in the chess that says attack is the best defense. I'm not so sure, because if the Workers' Party went on its own, they should be aware that there are a lot of inheritances according to their regime, which we've also talked about in social debate before, namely, that we're sitting with, among other things. a maintenance seat towing of 17.7 billion. kr, which must be covered in order to make the railway function the same as the means of transport which it is intended to be. We should be in this room, in this setting, too good to make such strong accusations against each other. It is such that the government council that came in last year took over some of the projects that he is with and cuts the cord on. And so it was for the previous government. There were actually a lot of projects that the previous government could cut the string on, and projects that had started up in the years before that. That's the way it is. Some get the credit of cutting the cord, and others get the credit of putting the spade in the ground. That's how the policy is. This is about balancing a budget where you have some money left over, and then you've figured out that you spend it on something else. That's what this is really about. As far as Eastfold is concerned, I think it is a bit sought to criticise this government for taking measures that the previous government would not have. Much of the debate in this regard and the criticism we have received is not really about doing what we said, but we keep doing what the Labour Party said they should do. It's a little bit strange to criticize us for that. But we'll probably realize that we don't follow in the Labour Party's footsteps, because there's going to be a lot of things going on in transportation in the next few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2394	I would also like to thank Mr Stortinget for an interesting debate. I'd like to call it interesting, because there's been a fresh debate about a proposition where we're pretty much in agreement about it most, except fv. 545, where the majority is in favour of extending the tolling period by a further two years. It's a little interesting – now I might have to put it in such a way that I'm going to be the last speaker today – that when we at the E18 in Westfold follow local wishes, reduce the toll rates and increase the payoff time somewhat, make a scheme that is in line with what the county council and other local authorities want, we get criticized for it. What happens after tonight, when we're going to vote, is that everyone is going to vote in favour. That's a strange situation. In the case of E18 in Eastfold, there was strong criticism that we were spending a few dollars trying to get a split layer to solve a problem. Then we're criticized for it, but when we're going to vote tonight, everyone agrees. On the E16 we also make improvements to the original setup, and then we are also criticized for it. Then we're gonna vote tonight, and then everybody's gonna vote for it. It's a very funny debate. – I don’t know if funny is a parliamentary expression, but I’m still trying. – It’s a very funny debate because we’re making a debate out of a proposition where we strictly agree on it most, except for one point where there’s talk of increasing the toll period on fv. 545. Then we make a big debate out of something that we basically agree on, and that everyone is going to vote for in the hall later. It was an interesting debate, and I thank you for the debate. As the rapporteur, it was interesting to be allowed to lead this, so that we can now see the end of it in the process of mass destruction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2407	I don't know if it's part of getting government power, but when I hear the place, I think maybe the government parties are good for criticism. The place said, not now, but in its first post, something such as that the Workers' Party and SV come up with criticism of the changes that are now being made to the E16. So it's E16 through the South Odal we're now talking about. We have not criticized the government for what has been done on the E16 in South Odal and Kongswinger. We even write in the Workers' Party and the Centre's comments that we are satisfied that a solution has been found for the residents on the south side of Glomma. We write that we share the government's assessments, and we state that for the residents on the north side of Glomma there are no solutions found that a local supporter. So that's not right, what Steffensen said about finding solutions that the community is satisfied with. On the Galterud side, that's the south side of Glomma, it happened. It's very good, but there's still a solution on the north side. Someone didn't get to the finish line. However, it is not the case that the Stortinget should sit and decide where the toll stations should be, and it is not right, as the town said, that we should vote on it later this evening, for neither the E16 case nor the E18 case in the inner East fold, there is any voting theme or any proposal to be dealt with here today. This is the government that manages, and the Storting expresses its vision. In the case of E16, we record that solutions have been found for parts of the problem – very good – but they did not reach the target for those who live on the north side of the river. It must be the law of the Storting to express. Then I will say to the end, to Steffensen: The reason I said that the E6 case could have been submitted to the Stortinget was that the Stortinget adopts toll projects, the Stortinget adopts road projects, and the Stortinget adopts the financing plan. Then there are often some changes happening along the way, and then the Storting gets it to new treatment. But there's no suggestion from the government to change the toll collection, the toll arrangement for E6 along Mjøsa. It could have been in the case we have to deal with now, but it is not. So it's like this, if I'm going to listen to Steffensen, that if someone changes a toll scheme, it's to the government's credit, but if the government doesn't make changes to the Storting and the Storing, it's not going to make any changes, yes, it's the biggest thing that's causing the toll scheme to turn out the way it is. So I'm defending the toll scheme. To Ikstad I want to say that I am defending the toll scheme. He has, most people have, because we realized that it was necessary. I defend the toll system on the E6 and on a number of other toll-funded roads, while there are others who do not, but who are now taking credit for building roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2420	The president just wants to show that we probably have a very long night ahead of us before the vote that several speakers have spoken about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2423	I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. Here you can select a setting that will be adopted unanimously on all items except one. Still, we've been able to spend well over an hour discussing things that we agree on. I think that's good. I am concerned that the government is a minority government and must listen to what the Storting decides. That is why the government has not on every occasion made proposals to reduce tolls – we did not expect that we would have a majority for that. We thought we'd get it on fv. 545, based on the principles which the Workers' Party itself laid down when they were in government and which they communicated in government documents to the Stortinget. Then we lose this thing here, and I live with it. The interesting thing here is that when the representative Myrli asked why the same was not in the E6, it's interesting to know if the Workers' Party is now signaling that if such a case had come, they would re-prioritize the budget in order to reduce the toll share on this road section. Or is this just an example where one gives the impression that one thinks it's sad and sees that the Progress Party is not implementing its policy, while one has strongly opposed the implementation of the Progress Party's policy. In that case, there's a bit of a strange approach to a debate. And it will be the same when one discusses the E16 in Kongsvinger, because in the setting we are now dealing with, the Workers' Party has said in a note that their contribution to government to a more effective toll break was to get a standard discount scheme, a uniform discount scheme, in all the bomb projects, and then suddenly a departure from this principle in one case in Kongswinger, while one in the government did not propose to deviate from the principle at all. So in the opposition, one on the same side in the same setting has two different positions for what the discount system should be. Then it's worth remembering that the principles here are a little weak, which means that some of us have asked some questions. I can promise that the government will continue to work to build more roads, record-breaking appropriations to the road confirm this. All road projects in the Road Service Action Plan are now under way. There is something different than in the 2010–2013 national transport plan, where more than 20 road projects were delayed in different ways. We will continue to increase the maintenance effort. The maintenance appropriations for 2015 are 66 pst. greater than the maintenance appropriations provided by the previous government for the current year. It is a change of pace, and that is why the representative Sønsterud will understand why the Progress Party and the Right are in government even if we are in a minority. Because even if we don't get an impact on every point of view in each of the party's programs, we have a total of a bet on commerce, on health, on justice, on taxes, in different areas, which is much better than what the other government showed. That's why it's also worth voting for some toll project, because in government we can actually remove some projects that we in opposition never achieved. I believe the joy of both the Right Party and the Advance Party, and of the Left Party and the Christian Party, of having government power is quite great.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2436	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2439	An error will fail even if it recurs multiple times. So we don't have any alternative suggestions regarding the bombing sites on the E16 in South Odal – it's not true that it's in Kongsvinger, the tolling stations are in the South Odal municipality. We have recorded that the government has done a good job and found a solution for those who live on one side of the river. Now I repeat it: the Glomma is a river, I said Glomma instead, so it's eleven in the area. On the one hand, solutions have been found, but on the other hand, solutions have not been found. We note that. We have not criticised the government for what we have not made any alternative proposal – then, of course, we should have done this today. But we don't, so we support what the government has put forward. That's how it works in Stortinget. The government has solved one problem, but not the other. We'll record that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2446	I'm going to be short, but when things are said that are not right, I have to fix it. It is a fact that the Minister is trying to make it clear here that the budget for transport and other budgets are being over-implemented. We have just adopted the framework for this year's budget, and that is not the case, of course. Then it was actually that the Workers' Party had 1.5 billion. kr more for transportation than the Advance Party, and you could see far after the 45 billion. kr, as the Progress Party a year ago said they would lift up into transport. I think the minister, when he's standing on the platform here, should act a little bit more neatly in relation to what the bets were. I would also like to remind you that we also had a significantly higher framework for municipalities and county municipalities, which are not least important for the sector we are discussing today, because both municipalities and county municipalities are able to maintain and expand their roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2455	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2469	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to five lines of reply following contributions from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2478	The starting point for the case is the proposal from the representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Abid Q. Raja to ensure the county councils have the opportunity to impose environmental requirements on the taxi industry. The Committee has noted that the proposers are seeking amendments to the professional transport legislation in order to provide the basis for the county councils to impose specific environmental requirements on new taxis. Today, the Professional Transport Act does not authorise either the Permit Authority or the Ministry to impose such requirements on the taxi industry. Based on our climate policy objectives set out in the Stortinget, the Committee agrees that all measures that can have a positive impact on air quality improvements, in cities in particular, should be assessed positively. Municipalities and county councils should be given a space for action in order to achieve their environmental policy objectives. Here, too, the state has an important role to play in helping to create just such a space of action. As the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee, municipalities, including county councils, have been given a number of tasks and instruments to influence sources of environmentally harmful emissions. Municipalities are policy actors, service providers, regulators, purchasers, property owners and responsible for planning and facilitating a good living environment for their inhabitants. It is therefore not unnatural that opportunities should also be provided for setting environmental requirements for an industry that accounts for a non-negligible proportion of emissions. There are also, as we see today, some positive features in the picture. The emissions of new vehicles, Euro6, appear to have a clear beneficial effect on the total emissions. This applies not least to the heavier vehicles. Calculations from the Transport Economic Institute show that the emissions of NO2 in the Oslo area — provided that it is a natural vehicle replacement — will actually decrease from 2015 onwards. In the opinion of the Committee, provision should be made for the possibility of imposing requirements on zero and low-emission cars for new taxis from county municipalities. However, there is a need for a transitional period before any new requirements are introduced. This is necessary in order to take the necessary account of the taxi industry, and not least for the industry to be given predictability. If more stringent requirements are introduced for new taxis quickly, this may result in such a high cost increase for the taxi industry itself that, instead of rapidly replacing older taxis, one chooses to postpone the replacement of the car fleet. This would have resulted in an increase in emissions rather than a reduction, which would be very negative both for the environment and for industry. The Council of State otherwise informs the Committee by letter that it is a cross-ministerial working group which is now in the final phase of its investigation. The group shall: ‘Evaluate the need for instruments to reach EU limit values and assess the possible instruments. would be appropriate to introduce, including the effectiveness of measures and costs for public and private persons.’;» The Committee meets a case for the Storting, which sets out the ways in which county municipalities can be given the opportunity to demand zero- and low-emission cars. At the same time, it is important to explain how to facilitate predictable and appropriate transitional arrangements for the taxi industry. The majority of the Committee is concerned that the county should be given the possibility to impose conditions on zero and low-emission cars for new taxis. The majority, the Labour Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left therefore support the proposal proposed by the representative, which reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that county councils have the opportunity to impose zero and low-emission conditions on new taxis through Section 11 of the Traffic Act.’ I therefore recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2514	In this case, the Right-wing proposal to give municipalities and states the possibility to impose restrictions on the taxi industry. In both Akershus, Oslo and other major urban areas, emissions from vehicles are important. There are quite a number of investments linked, among other things, to: public transport through requirements for buses, where both zero-emission buses and hybrids are operated. In this case, there is talk of the taxi industry as mentioned in the Government Declaration as a public transport vehicle, and we think it is reasonable that the taxis should also be subject to the same strict requirement for climate emissions as for public transport. Then we see that it is important for the taxi industry to have time to adapt, because there are a lot of individual companies that serve the taxi industry, and so on, there may be large investments that need to be made. It's not that simple for an individual diet, if you can call it that, to follow up at any time. In addition, new taxis are constantly changing, new opportunities are coming. Here there is a balance between what the industry tolerates from new demands and what society requires. It is therefore also important in this context that the municipalities and counties have to have this authority, because there are large differences between counties and counties and between urban and urban areas. It is clear that the challenges facing Bergen and Oslo, in particular, in terms of emissions and pollution in parts of the year are different from those facing, for example: smaller cities and agglomerations around the country have. Sometimes it's almost not taxis, so there's no big problem, really. At least the right joins and participates in the majority voting. We believe that this is a good thing, but it has to be followed up in a balanced way, so that the taxi industry does not get into unnecessary difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2525	I'll go straight to the case and be even shorter than I care. The party considers that the proposed representative in this case could restrict the self-employed in the taxi industry. The freedom of the taxi industry to choose a car for itself according to the needs of the industry is important, and the Progress Party wants fewer – no more – business regulations and regulations. Furthermore, the Progress Party considers that the proposal restricts competition. There's still only a small selection of cars that meet such requirements as this will be set. It will restrict competition in the market and it will also favour some producers. It may also be that taxi owners do not want to renew their car or their car park, and we are not served with that. If they do not renew their fleet, it could result in higher emissions than is necessary. I also believe that the taxi park will be renewed less with such a special regulation. The party considers that it is up to business operators to choose a car model that meets their consumer needs. That is why we in the Progress Party are going to vote against the proposal for a decision in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2536	It is important to ensure better air quality in cities. It is the local climate work for which the municipalities and county municipalities play a role in many areas. Providing local action space to the local community to improve air quality and contribute to enhanced climate focus is correct. However, the central party believes that the consideration of the taxi industry means that we cannot move too quickly. The cost increase may be so large that it will have a negative impact on the industry. Many places in the country are still such that it is not well-developed with charging or filling stations – if we talk about those types of cars – and then the choice will be very difficult to follow up on a part of the car park. It is also a coincidence that, in particular, the part of the taxi industry that is driving long trips does not allow it to fill up, for example. electricity on the route and that in the same areas where the taxi industry labors with profitability and perhaps it is only individual enterprises. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that it is important to ensure predictable and appropriate transitional arrangements for the taxi industry, and that we do not go too fast, so that it is possible for the industry to be on a climate promise that we all believe is sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2545	I would first of all like to take the opportunity to thank the President-in-Office and, not least, my co-rapporteur, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, for the proposal. Of course, I am very pleased that the Left in this matter, and so far also in a matter that comes a little later, about the imaging system, gets an impact. This impact means that local and regional authorities will have two new instruments to strengthen the urban environment and achieve the climate goals that we have all jointly committed to. It's important. The transport sector is responsible for 26 pst. of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. While Norway’s total greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 5 pst. Since 1990, emissions from the transport sector have increased by a total of 27 pst. In order to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement on the overall reduction of emissions and the inclusion of transport growth in urban areas by bicycle, public transport and corridors, more instruments are needed. Environmental requirements for the taxi industry are one of them. SV and Left have joined forces to promote the proposal and are supported by a broad majority. That's good. The climate agreement needs us to work together to find measures to achieve the objectives we have set in common. This Decision makes it possible for county municipalities to require new taxis to be low or zero-emission cars. With the development of technologies that have been for cars recently, including the development of plug-in hybrids, it will be possible to impose environmental requirements on taxis. Now we have electric cars, hydrogen cars, plug-in hybrid cars, and there's also going to be more possibilities. This will help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve urban air while at the same time being able to operate taxi industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2554	I would also like to thank the Committee, for it has seen that this is an important contribution to achieving sectoral objectives in the field of climate change. There are several who have shown that the public sector needs to start using its purchasing power in this way, i.e. when the public sector buys and orders, but also in the case of different types of appropriations. So, both for appropriations and for appropriations, there must be climate requirements in the future. In the Municipal and Administrative Committee we are dealing with the public sector, and I have to say that there is an overall committee which is much more unambiguously in favour of the public playing a very strong driving role through public procurement, but of course also how to act otherwise in order to drive this kind of new technology, and to help it become more commercially important in the future. This is how the market mechanism can be used to achieve positive things. So I'm very pleased with that. I will also thank him on behalf of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås for that. What I am more concerned about, however, is that there is a party that is not involved in this. It is quite special, especially because the party has the Minister of Transport, who is now required to implement this. We have now heard the intervention of the representative, Mr Vosskensen, which is totally contrary to what the Progress Party is in on the Municipal and Administrative Committee, where they share in the need for a green shift and the public contribution to it. It is therefore interesting to hear what the Minister for Transport says about this proposal, whether he is ready to follow it up and implement it, and whether he believes that this is a necessary contribution for the sector for which the Minister for Transport is responsible, including meeting its climate objectives, in line with the needs of climate reduction, but also in view of the climate agreement, which makes clear demands for the sector to achieve its objectives in its areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2563	It is important to stimulate more environmentally friendly transport. Some have had the approach of letting go of infrastructure in the hope that people won't have to transport. Many others, fortunately, have the approach of trying to cut emissions from the vehicles being used and looking at how to use new energy carriers, or energy sources, to ensure a more environmentally friendly transport industry. That, I think, is a sensible approach. Then it's important that we choose the tools that work. We've seen before how the government or the Stortinget rushed off the farms and adopted incentives for diesel cars, which were not quickly understood to be a direct chess move to improve air quality in cities. That's a little bit of what we're struggling with right now, and so it's important that when we do this job, we do it really well. I have informed Stortinget that there is a working group that is already working on this. It has also been said, in close cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party in government negotiations in Nydalen, that this is one of the things that is important for a new majority to work with. Of course, I have noticed that the majority of the committee believes that access to setting zero and low emission conditions for new taxis should be included in the action space for municipalities and county municipalities, given their central role in the local climate work. We're going to follow that up. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee notes that the importance of taxi industry and the predictability of industry must be given priority, and that there may therefore be a need for a transitional period before any new requirements are introduced. I believe that is a signal that we are going to have a practical way of doing this, but that the goal is quite obvious – you are going to get zero-emission and low-emission cars into the industry. It is also in line with the approach taken by the government in the case of cars used in the public sector in general, but they must be appropriate. We know that the Vegvesen e.g. have some cars, some four-wheeled pickups. It's not useful to replace them with small Mitsubishi Eon, because they don't cover the same purpose. At the same time, however, we know that many people, for example: home help only needs a simple means of transport, where the electric car has an absolute competitive advantage and a comparative advantage. What has been mentioned by several, both those who support the proposal and those who do not support it, is that if you go forward in such a way that the taxi industry ends up getting so high that those who consequently leave it out to replace the car fleet, no emission cuts have been achieved. That's why it's important that we do it in such a way that we also stimulate the taxi industry to replace the cars with the frequency they tend to have, so that they can phase in new cars and not just end up having more old cars. But I think everyone in this room is familiar with that problem, and we have to do it the best we can. I am now starting work on a proposal to amend the Professional Transport Act, which allows County and Oslo municipalities to impose zero- and low-emission conditions for new taxis, in line with the proposal that has been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2576	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2580	First of all, I would just like to say that the Labour Party is of course also behind this proposal to allow municipalities to impose environmental requirements. On 29 October, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Climate and Environment wrote a chronicle called Prosperity + Environmental Action = Climate Policy for the future. It says a lot, including: ‘We live in a long country. For some, the car will be the rational choice. Therefore, we will stimulate more people to choose vehicles with more environmentally friendly technologies.’ My question is, what concrete stimulus does the Council of State specifically consider to be to the taxi industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2592	It is about making visible what opportunities exist in the car industry. Today, it is often the case that if you drive a Mercedes E class as a taxi, you will realize that Tezla Model S is the only option you have today, with the range that an E class has, and given the same comfort and room size. It's to make sure that one gets visible which hybrid cars are available on the market, and that's where, through the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, we've got a good commitment to hybrids, which means that more people will be able to use it, and then more people will want to use it. And so it's also like when it comes to a lot of new technologies, you're going to experience that some people are really excited about using new technologies, others are more skeptical. If technology is to be broken through, it is about convincing those who are a bit skeptical today – and it is part of them in the taxi industry – that they can be sure that buying an electric car or a hybrid car offers the same operational safety and the same range as a conventional one, for example. Mercedes E-class has today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2599	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I perceive that the Council of State in its main post was actually very positive to this and positive to the proposal. I would like to ask myself, is it so that the Council of State felt that his party colleagues, as they were in the committee, could just as well be in favour of it, as the Council of State says he would do so much with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2606	I think if you read the setting here, you'll see in the notes that all the parties in the Storting are united on this. It's a very important signal about what you want. The assessment is enough if you need a proposal to underline what is already on the government platform – whether it is necessary or not. The members of the Committee know what's on the government platform, and they know what I'm working on. So I also think it is important for someone to point out that one should implement measures that are practical, and not as quickly, as any of the most eager would, in order to implement requirements quickly, one could end up not replacing the taxi park at all. Then one had the opposite effect of what a wish, and that is probably the discussion that has gone internally in the Progress Party – not the will to achieve the goal, but how a best one achieves it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2611	One of the things that is necessary for this to be practicable is that there will be charging stations and filling stations as hydrogen cars arrive. How will the Council of State ensure that it is possible to build this on a national basis, so that it is possible to drive over long distances around where it is more scattered and you do not have the opportunities that are available today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2618	We have by strengthening Enova and Transnova – among others. by bringing them together and getting a more efficient organisation to raise capital – enabling that organisation to support new technologies to support different types of charging stations. Then there should be a professional assessment of where you get the best support and the best use of the money that Stortinget grants for these purposes. So I think it's also important that we make sure that we build infrastructure in terms of vehicle energy supply, which is so efficient and robust that people actually dare to put it into use. Then we have to look at the distribution of the cars. Some cars have a large range, others have a smaller range. Then you also have to look at how long you have the loading time, how long you have the filling time. That's why I'm very happy that we have Transnova, who has professionals in this field, who will make good assessments of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2625	I understand that some in the Progress Party do not believe in climate change. I also know that some in the Progress Party believe that climate change exists, but they are not man-made. I believe most in the Progress Party agree that diesel cars in winter create air quality that leads to health problems. From this point of view, this proposal will help to reduce health problems in large cities, where traffic is increasing. Then my question to the Council of State is, how does the Council of State plan to be a driver? I believe that he who I am concerned that the taxi industry will continue to be an industry, exist and could have good framework conditions. How can we organize, so that we get built, for example, multiple hydrogen stations? Toyota has made a good car that you could drive here in Oslo and in other big cities in Norway. And, not least, how can we reduce the fee you pay when you speed up a car? You save time by speeding up, but you have to pay a larger fee because you simply save time. How will the Council of State be a strong contributor, so that we get a good nutrition and at the same time bring down the emissions into cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2634	Let me just solve a little confusion in the introduction. I don't think there's anyone in the Progress Party that I'm familiar with saying that there's no change in climate at any time. These are things you've observed over time. The discussion that has gone into the Progress Party and many other places is what kind of causal relationship there is between the observations we have and what man is doing. We in the Progress Party are very clear in our party programme – although most people choose to ignore it in debates – and have said that we should have a precautionary attitude, that we should implement measures, but that we must implement measures for cuts in anthropogenic CO2 emissions where we have the greatest impact, the greatest reduction. In the case of a vehicle, it is quite obvious, as the representative Raja also pointed out, that diesel cars pollute more in cities than petrol cars and definitely more than electric cars. That is why the diesel car policy that was conducted under the previous government for a few years was not good in view of this issue. Then we've been busy having contact with the industry just to see how we can deploy electric cars to a greater extent, and that the industry is involved and contributing with charging points.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2644	It is absolutely right that the Council of State has to implement these requirements, so that it actually improves. But one of the responsibilities of the Council of State then is to help put in place the infrastructure to enable these cars to drive, and point 2 to set a very clear deadline, for that we know is working. When a clear deadline is set, it is possible to reach it, and then technological developments are also taking place, and there are several types of cars to choose from – which has been one of the appeals to this proposal now. It is true that the public is a very large customer and has a very large purchasing power. Does the Council of State clearly see the huge importance of the use of purchasing power in different markets for climate-friendly alternatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2651	As I mentioned in my post, the government has said in the government platform that we should apply zero-emission and low-emission technologies to cars in the transport sector, but also to ferries etc. within other parts of the transport sector. So there is no contradiction between what the representative here wants, and what the government is already doing. I think it is important that, despite many wishes for Norway to lead, we are a little grounded in what we actually have impact on car manufacturers in other countries. I just want to remind you that the car sales in Norway in one year are less than one of the three American car companies selling in one month in the United States. There is little reason to believe that they are going to rearrange their production line because Norway is asking for a few extra cars of a special type. It is therefore important that we, together with many other countries, contribute to making demands in order to direct the direction, but not that we go alone and get an unmet need in the transport sector. But luckily, a lot happens here, no matter what Norway does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2658	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2662	In fact, I disagree with the Council of State in his last statement, that it is difficult for individual countries to go ahead. On the contrary, I think that this case shows that not only individual countries, but also cities and local authorities are moving ahead and moving forward. The left is very happy that we have this decision today, but there is only one step on the way to obtaining a claim for more environmentally friendly taxis. This has taken time, and it is important to remember that nothing has been done until it is actually completed. Back in 2012, I myself had the pleasure, as the City Council in Oslo, to propose setting environmental requirements for the taxi industry, a proposal which was adopted by a broad majority in Oslo in 2013 and which was adopted again in 2014, with concrete proposals on how to do this in cooperation with the industry, and with a deadline until 2020 and forward to 2023. Since we had made thorough legal assessments with the local attorney, who thought that it was within today's law that one could make such demands as a privilege authority, we were very surprised when a letter came from the Red-Green Government, from the Ministry of Transport, which put an end to that process with its legal assessment. That is why we are pleased that we now have a new majority, and also that the old government's parties have clearly been able to think more freely again and are in favour of this proposal. We're getting cleaned up in this when we now have a new majority that can take a step further. I do not share this concern about what could happen to the taxi industry. We must remember that this is not a decision to impose requirements on the taxi industry, this is a decision to delegate an authority to the privilege authority. We have to trust local authorities so that they can have a good dialogue with the industry. They see for themselves which progress is sensible in their areas, which will vary. That is precisely why this should also be a local decision, which is why it is safe to delegate it down to the privilege authority. The options already exist, they already do. It's electric cars, it's biogas, it's ethanol, and hydrogen's coming in. But what is important in the further process is that the Council of State does not undertake to go into all the details that local authorities also need to assess, but just get through a law that allows us to get the delegation in place, and then the job and implementation are to be done by local authorities. But this is one important step on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2677	I very much agree with what the representative Elvesuen said, but I also think the representative Elvesuen knows very well that SV has been a driver for this all along, just as the Left has been in Oslo. It's absolutely right that there are cities and areas that go ahead. I also responded when the Council of State said that it is not important for Norway to take a leading role in this. Of course, it is important for Norway to take a leading role in this. Norway has a strong purchasing power, we can only look at the electric car policy we have pursued here in Norway. It has helped to drive forward an electric car development that very many people didn't think would happen, and that's because you use tools to achieve a desired effect. Therefore, I am a little worried that the Council of State seems to be as restrained as he is, but I hope that he not only sees all the counter-representations here, but also sees how Norway can influence this in the future, because he must also meet the objectives of the climate agreement in his areas. It is then necessary to have these types of tools in the toolbox, so that emissions can be reduced in all areas. Then there will also have to be money on the table in the future budget, so that there will be charging stations and infrastructure for this car park, so it will be easy and easy for those who use this type of car in the future. We need to have such requirements in the future for both private cars and the car park in general. Time limits are then absolutely necessary, because it has been shown that if deadlines are not set, this type of technology change will not be implemented, but with deadlines having, among other things, time-limits. Norwegian industry has shown that they have developed climate-friendly and environmentally friendly solutions in areas where others have predicted that this was not possible. But it was possible because you knew that the framework conditions were this way, and then you wanted to be in business and not be out of business. So this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2686	I'm sorry to prolong the committee's debate, but this matter involves me, also because we actually need to get this in place. My point is that you don't have to set any national deadlines here. This is also done locally. When it comes to infrastructure, we have instruments in place here. We have it via Transnova and now via Enova, and it does so in cooperation with the privilege authorities. It is necessary to provide a system to provide an infrastructure to facilitate the taxi industry, and this is done in cooperation with the taxi industry. The important thing now is that we do it, that we're not a brake as a national authority, but that we release local creativity and opportunities so that we can drive a development locally. This is not only happening in Norway; it is also happening internationally that local authorities are promoting positive developments. It is good for travellers – it is important – and it is good for the taxi industry itself, who need to renew and who are shown to be part of public transport, a supplement, and a necessary part of developed public transport where the same requirements are also met. That's good because you get reduced local pollution, which is a problem in many places, and that's good because you're involved and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is also good because it contributes to a development – an example for others, which shows that it is possible to achieve, and which will also have an impact far beyond the scope of permits where this can become a reality after it is finally implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2695	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2709	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2718	First, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting this matter. I would also like to thank the Committee for an easy and good procedure. I can tell you that I worked on this matter during the previous period, so the matter has been discussed here at Stortinget for several major periods without any significant results being found in this process before now. The answers have been the same from all the Ministers for Transport: a number of systemic and resource challenges need to be put in place before we can get a personal registration plate. The Committee points out that for many years the Swedish Road Administration has been working with new Autosys, which involves the renewal of the driving licence and motor vehicle register, but some work remains to be done. The Committee also points out that personal registration plates are well-known in many countries, for example: Our neighbouring countries are Sweden and Denmark, two of the countries with this scheme in place. The Committee considers that provision should be made for this scheme to also come here in Norway. In Sweden, a fixed amount is paid, after I have been told 10 000 kroner, for personal car signs. Anyone who wants to buy such personal registration plates pays the cost of producing the plate, and the rest goes to road safety. Then no one other than the person who wants such a sign is charged, and at the same time you pay money for a very good purpose. The Committee considers that this scheme, where the profits of personal registration plates are related to road safety, should also apply in Norway. It will provide additional money for road safety work in addition to what is allocated to the State budget. There have been many positive calls in the years that it has worked on this matter, from people who want this scheme, and impatience is great among those who want to buy a personal registration plate, among others. the undersigned. The Committee now asks the government to step up its efforts to put a system in place to deal with the issue of personal car signs. An overall committee makes the following proposals: The Storting asks the Government to submit a proposal for a system allowing for a personal registration plate on Norwegian vehicles. The surplus from the sale of personal car signs is earmarked for road safety. I recommend the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2735	I would first like to thank the rapporteur and the members of the Committee for their support for the proposal. A system of personal registration plates, where the profit from sales is earmarked for road safety measures, will, in addition to providing room for individual vehicle owners’ creativity, contribute to important new means of road safety measures. As the rapporteur said, this has been a system such as this. has been practised in Sweden and has provided significant funds for road safety work. In this way, a person can actually conclude that personal car signs can save lives. In the transport budget adopted by the Stortinget for 2015, a unanimous agreement has been reached on a proposal to draw up a national road safety plan. It's been 30 years since the Stortinget last had a national level in this area on its table. The means by which the personal car signs can contribute in the years to come will be able to speed up this work and thus become one of the sources of funding to make traffic safer and to save lives in the years to come. It is gratifying to note that an overall committee is behind the proposal. I am glad that in this way we can also join in and promise an important measure, which can help us to approach the zero vision goal of zero-killed and hard-damaged, in combination with giving the vehicle a more personal touch. So the Ministry of Transport has made us aware that there are some challenges in terms of the systemic and resource nature of getting the system fully in place. I would, however, believe that with a unanimous collapse in the back, the Council of State is doing what he can, as quickly as possible, to get the new system in place. As long as this is a well-known system in our neighboring country, there should be something to learn here that makes a person spend no longer than necessary to get the scheme operational.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2748	This is a matter that is so far simple and straightforward, this is something to which I am very positive. I have used my own personal signs when I lived in the United States, and the scheme has worked well in our neighboring country. So here it shouldn't be on the will to get it done. But I regret to say – after sitting in the Council of State for one year – that it is part of the computer systems in the state that are not as modern and up-to-date as they should be. It's a challenge in this context. Today's computer system is designed to have two letters and five numbers – done. Reprogramming this has so many consequences for other computer systems that it's a complicated affair – believe it or not! Now it's working on getting a new license and motor vehicle register, what is called Autosys. The functionality associated with the approval and registration of vehicles in the existing system is so out of date that a believer should put in place this new system and facilitate it. It simply costs too much money to try to meddle with what is. We still look into the matter, to see what is possible. If it turns out that there are simple ways to implement it quickly, we have to make sure that it does. We're going to continue working with Autosys and fix it as soon as possible. In the driving licence area of this scheme, all functions have already been replaced – that is, in the new scheme from 1 September. Then it remains to replace the functionality of the vehicle area and further develop self-service solutions for both driving licences and vehicles. The aim is to provide a better system so that the Road Service can provide a better offer, but also that more users can carry out their tasks on the web at home, instead of meeting at a traffic station. I'm going to promise the proposers that what we've also discussed here will be very prominent when we work on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2759	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2773	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2782	When the Stortinget now manages the representative proposal of the representatives of Raja, Elvestuen, Breivik and Nybø from the Left Party, there is a joint committee in favour of the proposal to allow the municipalities to reserve parking spaces for the car hire scheme. When the Committee agrees to this, it is because Norwegian municipalities want more tools to facilitate more environmentally friendly traffic, fewer cars in urban centres and forward-looking parking solutions. Such a tool allows Stortinget to ensure that they are provided with a new parking code. The first imaging system in this country came in Oslo in 1995, and now there are such schemes in seven cities. The Transport Economic Institute says that the potential for growth is high, simply because it is a good arrangement for its members; it provides cheaper and simpler car maintenance. For someone, this means that they do not have their own car, for others, that they do not buy car number two. For a group, this means that they can go, cycle or use public transport to the job in the centre and still have access to the car when the work requires it. For the politicians in our cities, this means a system that can help them achieve their objective of a good and environmentally friendly transport policy. The Institute of Transport Economics refers to the EU Momo project, on car sharing in 14 European countries in 2010, and they conclude that the research shows that car sharing clearly contributes to reducing environmental taxes, because when car sharing is well integrated with other alternatives to private car use – public transport, cycling and walking – the result will also be less use of cars. They quote a number of studies that show that what makes people get involved in imaging schemes is that it's cheaper than owning a car, and that there's easily accessible parking for car rentals, especially in places with limited parking. It has also shown itself in Bergen, which is the city with car sharing that I know best. When the car is in a good place, the use increases. There – in Bergen, that is – they now have over 1,000 members and 100 cars. It means between nine and ten members per car and so 900 fewer cars in the center than it would have been if all of these had their own driving gear. The Committee is, as I said, assembled on the proposal, but the Committee's members from the Government Party and from the Christian People's Party have their own comments, for which I believe they will do more in their own speeches. As I read the government party and the Christian People's Party's comments, they are also concerned that the municipalities provide sufficient parking space in the urban areas to make everyday life easier for nutrition. This is something I might be saying. But if we're going to use Bergen as a example, everyone who's been there understands that in the center, on the north side and on the mountain side, it's not easy to get enough parking space. Then a functioning imaging system can lead to slightly fewer cars in streets and parking spaces. This is also a scheme that business benefits. In Bergen, the Bildeleringen has 57 business members, and most of them are offices in the center that need a car from time to time. A period of time was also the fire service, not to share fire cars, but cars like a user, for example. to go on inspection. This shows that such a scheme helps to make business in the centre easier and cheaper. State institutions such as the University of Bergen and the Labour Inspectorate are members, and in Bergen Bjørgvin Bispedime is also a diligent user of the scheme. The cars are literally in line; there is no need to wait with proper parking rules. For this reason, I am pleased that the Council of State in its reply to the Committee said, ‘I will therefore now give priority to the implementation of the new legislation as soon as possible.’ I would like to thank the representatives of the Left who have put forward this proposal, and I am also pleased that a joint committee is behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2803	This is yet another measure that helps municipalities and counties get the tools they can use in climate policy — so that more things can be used. The car sharing is in so far as it is already in progress and is being used. What is missing is the ability to set up signs to show where to park. We are in favour of car sharing, and it is an overall committee that has it as its starting point, but what is the difference – which Rommetveit had in mind – is that the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party want to see this also in connection with the general parking policy in the cities. This means that we cannot impose it, but we believe that the municipalities and the counties – in this case the municipalities – must organise sufficient parking areas in urban areas to make everyday life as easy as possible for businesses and others dependent on transport. There is a shortage of parking spaces in urban areas and agglomerations, and it's actually part of the policy to get more people to drive collectively, tightening up parking opportunities. This is another measure that will go on any of the same, but then it is very important to make sure that we have a business that can actually work in all of this. The fact that we have a new technology, new opportunities to communicate with each other via iPhone and new smart phones also makes it easier to find someone to share cars with, so this system should be able to benefit greatly from today's technology. We even see that new taxi models show up, which are based alone on that kind of communication. We believe that this is another important tool for municipalities to pursue an active climate policy. We support the proposals to this extent, but we would point out that this is one aspect of which we must also take into account, namely that it must be a living business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2814	We know that new parking codes are coming. It is a regulatory framework applicable to both the public and private parking activities. In this context, it is important that no restrictions are imposed on municipalities when the new parking legislation is to be applied. Therefore, the municipalities must be given an opportunity, for example: reservation of parking spaces for car sharing schemes and associated signs. In other words, the legislation must be robust for the purpose of the regulation. At the same time, I would like to point out that we in the Progress Party believe it is important that adequate parking spaces are provided, even where there is a picture system, so that parking is as easy as possible for both businesses and individuals. We know that many people depend on car transport. If we like it or not, you have to have parking spaces available. Therefore, it is important that municipalities provide sufficient space for parking, even where car sharing schemes are in place. That being said, the Party of Presidents is in favour of the Committee's proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2825	Like the rest of the committee, the Christian People's Party is positive about giving municipalities more tools to ensure a good urban environment. Street areas are scarce and municipalities must have the opportunity to regulate from the best local level. Own parking spaces for cars from approved car sharing schemes can be a sensible arrangement for completely new residential projects where one plans the total parking solution from the ground up. But urban land disposal will increasingly be the subject of discussion in the coming years. We have now passed 5 million inhabitants in Norway. In 1975, we were 4 million. So it took 37 years from Norway to go from 4 to 5 million, and it will take less than half the time to get to the next million. In 2030, in just 16 years, we are 6 million in this country, and the biggest growth we see in the cities. This is a sobering estimate, based on the SSB average option. In fact, growth can grow even larger, and cities are growing rapidly. It goes without saying that this growth has to have consequences for how we plan, build, and how we dispose of land. In this work, it is important that we organise a good balance. The preservation and development of the living and active urban environment requires a good balance of the instruments and that both the needs of the inhabitants and the business community for parking are met, while local air pollution is being taken seriously. The car is a necessary means of transport, also in an urban area. Restrictive measures must therefore always be balanced against the real and legitimate needs of the population for parking places. The Christian People's Party is concerned that both families with children and others who have a real need for a car should be able to live in urban centres. When one then discusses parking problems, we must therefore remember the value of having a living urban environment with activity and a living business. In fact, restrictive parking policies that do not at the same time take into account the real needs of urban and children’s families for a car can contribute to making the city less vibrant and less diverse. The city consists of many small local environments, and it is in these local environments that people live their everyday lives. On November 20, this year, the editor of the newspaper Our Land wrote an article about what he called the "urban villages". The starting point was a specific case in Oslo where one had obviously gone too far in eagerness to shut the car out of the local environment: «The buildings depend on the car – the towns and towns with young children’s parents and others of all ages, trade and craftsmen it seems difficult to relate to parking disappearing’, writes the editor and points out that the city also has its inhabitants, and that the city and the village are built around the car, it is glued. Therefore, it is important that there is a good balance in the use of the instrument. That is probably also the recognition I see when the majority of the vote points to the importance that municipalities provide sufficient parking space in urban areas to make everyday life as easy as possible for businesses and others dependent on car transport. But as I said, the Christian People's Party is too free to act locally, and we have confidence that the instruments are used sensibly, so that one finds good solutions in a good dialogue with the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2840	Of course, I am pleased that we have a majority and a unanimous committee in agreement with this proposal to reserve parking spaces for car sharing schemes and to allow municipalities to decide for themselves. This is an instrument to facilitate more environmentally friendly development in cities and agglomerations. It provides an opportunity to facilitate the reduction of local air pollution and also take responsibility for the greater global pollution. But it is also important to bear in mind that this is also an instrument for increasing mobility, and that is what this is all about: giving the population an opportunity to be part of a car screening scheme and then also being able to have access to a car on their premises – whether it is, as I mentioned earlier, to avoid a number. 2-car or it is to have access to a car without having to acquire it. There are many who may need it. So to the concerns about the parking situation: Fortunately, local authorities are responsible for this, and there is no doubt that they are the best ones to do the overall assessment that is necessary. Common areas – streets, squares and squares – are a scarce asset where there are many people who want to fit in. It is important to remember that very often there are the same people who both drive cars, travel collectively – like using car sharing schemes – bicycles and walks. Solutions must then be found to ensure good mobility and the possibility that all groups can also use the common areas. In order to get an environmentally friendly development, it is important to give priority to walking, to cycling and public transport, and then to find a practical solution for the car within the limits it provides. I think – if I know the right background to the Christian People's Party's remark – that I myself, as I mentioned earlier, as the City Council in Oslo, am also responsible for this process that just prioritizes public transport in the urban area to which it refers. Prioritisation is necessary because public transport must be seen as a whole system, not on each piece and each street and what is right there. As a system, that change has led to a much better functioning of the trick in particular. I also think this case shows that you need a review from Stortinget to delegate greater authority in environmental matters to the municipalities. Actually, this is an authority that, at least for my own part, I believe the municipalities should of course have. I was really quite surprised when it turned out that it was necessary to go all the way to Stortinget to open up so that a city could reserve space for car sharing schemes. But that's it. When necessary, it's the way you have to go, even in what may appear to be smaller matters. But in a larger context, this case is just like the one that the committee dealt with a little ago, delegating authority to taxi industries, and other issues that will also come to the Storting, whether it's environmental zones in town or otherwise. Together, it provides an opportunity for local authorities to take a completely different responsibility for promoting more environmentally friendly development in their municipalities and, in particular, to drive it forward where they have too few instruments today – a development that can address local pollution. This is a small step in that direction, but I also want to add that it might be very important and can be of great importance to those individuals who now have a much easier access to car sharing schemes, and get a greater mobility in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2862	It is important that municipalities are provided with the necessary space for action in order to be able to use parking as a means of improving the urban environment. A new parking code is now being worked on, which will apply to both public and private parking. This is one of the things that you have been working on for many, many years, but that has only progressed in the last year. Proposals for new legislation have been consulted, with a deadline of 1 September. The Hearing Comments have shown that there is a need for some adjustments to the proposal before being submitted to the Stortinget. We are now doing that adjustment round. We believe it is important that the new parking code provides action rooms for the future. I therefore want to make sure that the municipalities have the opportunity to reserve parking spaces for the car sharing system. There is currently no public sign to reserve spaces for such arrangements. The introduction of such a sign will therefore require an amendment to the sign code. We can do this in parallel with the completion of the new parking code. Reservation of parking spaces for a picture system will also require the municipalities that want to introduce this system to set up a system for registering the cars that can be included in this system. These are practical things, which I'm sure we can solve fairly well. That is when we adopt the new parking code. I hope the Storting is willing with regard to what is being presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2875	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2878	This is about opening up for new solutions. People make new and environmentally friendly choices in everyday life, and it's a popular environmental exposure that we have to create. In 2013, representatives from the Labour Party proposed that the Municipality of Oslo should facilitate such imaging schemes. It is agreed in the Transport and Environment Committee to develop an image sharing strategy for the municipality, and many of the parties stand behind it. This is where the local politicians are going to lead us. Transport agency Guri Melby says that they are ready to facilitate public parking if they get regulations and new car sharing signs in place. Therefore, it is urgent to get this into the parking regulations. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Council of State ensure that the regulations come into place, so that Oslo can start creating reserved space for the distribution of images for the next year? It also applies to that part of Bergen, who is hungry for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2888	The answer is yes, that's what I said in my post. We've been gripping a parking code that's been hibernated in a Department of Transportation for both five, six, seven and eight years. It will now be submitted to the Stortinget in a short time, precisely so that the Storing can make the changes that this government and this majority want. The majority who now rule are very positive about new solutions – that's what we went to elections on. That's what we're now seeing the consequences of. We are very pleased that a unanimous increase supports the work that the Left here is calling for, and to which the government is in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2897	Then I must say I'm happy. I am pleased that it is now being said that this will be in place in 2015. I'm also pleased that a mass accumulation is for this solution and for other solutions, which the representative Elvesuen had in mind, which goes a little in the same street, but which gives the municipalities and gives them the opportunity to make their own choices, and to take measures to improve the environment and traffic in cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2902	My elementary school teacher said, "The greatest joy you can have, it's to make others happy. Then both she and I have succeeded that we have actually passed it on. I can only say that we are also very happy that we have progressed on this. We can promise that it will not take eight years without something happening to the parking code, as under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2909	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2926	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2940	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2954	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2968	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2982	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e2996	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3005	The issue is to incorporate the Patient Rights Directive in order to facilitate the provision of high-quality healthcare across national borders and to contribute to cooperation between EEA Member States in the field of health. Norway has already established a reimbursement scheme for health care expenditure received in other EEA countries, but now it is proposed to extend it to hospital treatment, i.e. the specialist healthcare service. The majority dealt with the Patient Directive in the spring of 2013, but then with the requirement for prior approval. The current government did not decide to implement the decision and sent it a new hearing on 27 June 2014 proposing not to require prior approval, but with the possibility of applying for prior approval. The Committee has shared its opinion. With subsidiary voting, there is a majority for continued requirement for prior approval and the previous Grandfathering Decision of 2013 is promoted again. The minority supports the government's proposal. After the matter had been settled within the Committee, one of the parties behind the majority has notified that they consider to change their position when dealing with the matter in the Stortinget. I hereby explain the views of the Workers' Party. The working party responds to the government's decision to circumvent the Storting's previous 2013 decision and the Health Ministry's previous recommendation on prior approval. We believe that the government would consult Stortinget before submitting proposals to the EEA to remove the prior approval. We also react to the patient directive being used to introduce a general access for hospitals in the EEA area to receive funding for Norwegian patients. We believe that free treatment choice is a major issue, which deserves a broad investigation and thorough discussion in Stortinget, as the government has also announced. The working party believes that opening up to financing hospital stays in the EEA without prior approval is the wrong use of Community health resources. We think it's more important to strengthen hospitals here at home. It seems unwise to give commercial hospitals in the EU a greater right to receive treatment for Norwegian patients than for similar hospitals in Norway. The Norwegian healthcare system is based on a publicly funded health service, unlike most other EEA countries, where many have insurance-based systems. This disparity in organisation and funding, together with the fact that Norway has a very good economy compared to other European countries, allows Norwegian patients to be economically attractive to many European hospitals. In order to avoid our healthcare being deprived of resources, which in the next round may have consequences for the quality of the health service nationally, the Labour Party believes it is wise to lead was. We believe that prior approval is best for the patient. Lack of prior authorisation may quickly become an additional burden on patients and their relatives because they are at risk of being subject to disagreement on the basis of reimbursement in retrospect. There are many factors that could lead to disagreement about costs. There is a lack of comparable price lists for many treatment services, and very many hospitals will press for the best possible payment for Norwegian patients. Disagreements may arise as to whether patients are subject to time-limits in Norway in order to meet the conditions for receiving an equivalent health offer in the EEA area and as to whether the health offer abroad is considered equivalent to the health offer of the patient here in the home country. The working party is also concerned that a right to treatment without prior authorisation will favour the resource-intensive patients at the expense of those who are so ill that they cannot travel abroad or cannot afford to advance hospital stays abroad. A prior approval of reimbursement of hospital treatment costs will be an important tool to gain control of patient flow out of the country and the economy. Then we also have that with antibiotic resistance, which is an increasing problem, and the risk increases with hospitalization abroad. Pre-approval may facilitate the monitoring of antibiotic resistance by Norway. The Labour Party is in favour of European cooperation, especially because it enables us to offer the best treatment for rare conditions. This mechanism, which was negotiated and on the basis of previous decisions, was good. Now we feel that it is diluted by the sitting government. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Labour Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3035	The representative Ruth Grung has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3038	The Patient Rights Directive clarifies patients’ right to reimbursement of the costs of healthcare that the patient has chosen to provide in another EEA country. This is a regulation of rights that the European Court of Justice has already established that patients have. Norway is now implementing the Patient Directive. The reimbursement scheme under the Directive will primarily concern the planned treatment, so that it will be particularly relevant in cases where patients have conducted studies in advance on where they can obtain a good treatment offer. Access shall also cover expenditure limited to healthcare that patients will also be covered in Norway. To clarify, this applies to patients who already have a right to health care. So it's not like patients will have treatment that's experimental or experimental. The new Directive provides an important opportunity for some patients. Some patients have only one offer in Norway; they do not have the option of choosing another offer today. Others want to choose a treatment provision in another country for other reasons. This Directive therefore strengthens the rights of patients. It follows from the Patient Rights Directive that service providers should provide patients with relevant information on treatment options, on the very provision, quality and safety of healthcare services. In addition, the country of treatment has an obligation to ensure the existence of complaints and redress procedures. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left support the possibility for Norwegian patients to recover the costs of hospital treatment in another EEA country. Whether or not the patient has applied in advance shall not prevent the patient from obtaining his/her rights as long as the treatment meets the requirements we otherwise impose in Norway. In the consultation note with proposals for regulatory amendments sent out in June of this year, it was not proposed to impose a requirement for prior approval. However, it is clear that the Department will follow this development over time. And if, in some areas, major patient flows create problems in maintaining a qualitatively good health supply in Norway or it contributes to poor use of resources, the Ministry will assess whether to impose prior authorisation requirements in the relevant areas. I would like to stress that all patient organisations that have expressed their views on the government's proposal support this. This means that Nordics have the same opportunities as patients in Sweden to cover their costs if they choose hospital treatment in another EEA country, and I stress that there is a relatively small group of patients. The working party is for the introduction of the right on paper, it seems, but will introduce a requirement for prior approval. This could be a bureaucratic obstacle to Norwegian patients having the same opportunity as their Swedish neighbours. The working party shall include, inter alia: writes in Size setting that: ‘A prior authorisation for reimbursement of hospital treatment costs will be an important instrument for controlling patient flow out of the country.’ Then I wonder, What patient stream is this? There must be little trust in Norwegian health services if patients are to be released from the country when this goes through. From the patient’s point of view, prior authorisation will be limited, we believe, in the possibility of receiving hospital treatment in other countries. With the requirement for prior authorisation, the patient will have the right to leave when he or she really has to wait unnecessarily long for hospital treatment in Norway. I believe that this case shows a clear difference between the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – and the Labour Party. We want to put the patient in focus, that's the patient's need this applies. I feel here that the working party is more concerned with the system and control.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3067	This matter has become a strange matter when you read the configuration of the committee. There is reason to ask questions about trying to make this matter something other than it actually is. What is the big difference between what the government parties – and which the Left also warned to join – and, among other things, what is the difference. what the Workers' Party claimed? The Labour Party, which was also present at the driver’s seat in the EU match in 1994, considered Norway to register in the EU. We would actually have come into the situation that this had not been a problem, then we would have to have taken everything in the directive, without being able to choose. But what this matter is about, is just, as the Council of State Höie has repeatedly pointed out, is that it is the healthcare of patients. If you forget or have not applied for this prior authorisation that the Workers' Party wants to be in place, then the government parties believe that – if you have a right to treatment, it is the patients who have already been given the right to treatment – you should be able to apply for reimbursement of their expenses. While with the proposal that the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party stand for here today, you should not have that opportunity. You should not be able to apply for reimbursement of these expenses, because you will automatically receive a discount. That's what's happening, the way this is happening. The difference is that if you have forgotten to apply, or have not applied, and go out and get a treatment that can actually do a fresh one, and you have already got the right to treatment, and then come home and apply for a refund, then you will automatically lose the right to apply with the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party, because today's legislation says that in that situation you should have an automatic rejection – while the government parties say, yes, we will still assess your application because you have been entitled to treatment. I must also be allowed to say, after hearing the comments from the representative, Grungs – it is not just that the government consults the Storting in this matter. It is not that one circumvents the decision. You come to the Stortingen with the case. It is the Stortinge that is now adopting it, and that is the way to do it before the directive is implemented. For this is a directive – this is not a legal act. This is a directive on which the Stortinget will decide before it is finally implemented. So it's handled quite correctly, just like you're supposed to do in the case of EU directives. You use this with resistant bacteria -- yes, that's something we should be aware of. And we'll be aware of that all the time. But the Norwegian people, and others – we move in other countries very often. We go on vacation, we go on a trip, we go on a trip, we go on a job. So we are also in these other countries. And it lives – and they have actually survived – 500 million people within the EU system. And they're still alive. It is not that the health system within the EU system is so much worse than the Norwegian one. I actually think that in many places we also have a lot to learn from how other countries do it. But I'm not going to go up any EU debate, I won't. I have my very clear view right in that field, and it could probably make the voting get really late here in the house, if we're going to start it. But the debate we are discussing is: Should a patient, who has been entitled to treatment in the Norwegian healthcare system, be allowed to evaluate his application when he returns to Norway, or should he not? That's what's the difference. So SV and the Center Party have a different approach – I fully respect that. They have said that they are against, I was saying, including the EEA – at least some. I accept that, so I don't go into that discussion. But with regard to the position of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party in this case, they want the patient not to be allowed to apply, while we believe that we should not automatically deprive the patient of the right to apply for reimbursement of the expenses, as long as the right to treatment has already been granted. It's putting the patient in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3080	There's something else than vacation trips we're talking about here. These are hospitalisations that have the largest bacterial flora. The directive we are talking about today is about laying down provisions aimed at facilitating the provision of high-quality cross-border services and contributing to cooperation between Member States in the field of health – it is said in the vote. The protection of the country from which the patient comes shall ensure that the costs of treatment in another Member State are reimbursed in accordance with the rules of the Directive. According to the Directive, patients do not have the right to be covered either travel or residence expenses, but the Member States can decide for themselves whether to cover such expenses or not. It's an article that has three sub-items, and it says something about what rights we as a Member State have. It says that the social security country is entitled to prior health care authorisation for overnight stays or requires highly specialised or cost-intensive medical infrastructure or equipment – which the government says is a restriction, but which the Christian People's Party sees as a security. The same article, point (b), states that a person may also require prior authorisation for healthcare involving treatment of high risk to the patient. In point (c), a requirement for prior approval opens where there is a serious or specific concern for quality and safety by the service provider. There are multi-resistant bacteria coming in. Language is not required, other than the official language of the supplier countries. The Christian People's Party is engaged in networking with the rest of the world, especially in subjects and areas where there are few cases in its own country. However, the Christian People's Party is concerned with the professionalism, quality and use of countries and hospitals that have a restrictive use of antibiotics. This must be possible at the same time as having a prior approval, as the directive opens up in three points. This is what the Christian People's Party believes, because we believe that it must be possible for those travelling to have the security of prior approval – you do not postpone your own economy until you know you're approved. Are there any patients who have little time and are so seriously ill that they cannot wait, public authorities must be able to involve three factors: what is red or acute and urgent? What is yellow and can wait a little bit? And what are the usual rights that a patient has? That is why the Christian People's Party supports proposal No. 1, which says that the government will come back to Stortinget with a plan to implement the directive in a good way, because we believe in good cooperation, but we also believe in having control to ensure good quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3101	For the Centre Party, equivalent health services to the entire population, regardless of socio-economic strength, are one of the pillars of the welfare community. The Patient Rights Directive is part of a market right for the healthcare sector that challenges this principle and the obligation of Storting and the right to control health priorities in the future. The Directive states that patients should be entitled to receive health care in all countries that are covered by the EU internal market. The patient should be entitled to reimbursement up to the cost of treatment in the home country of the patient. Treatment costs are reimbursed to the patient if this treatment is also offered in the home country to the patient. In principle, free treatment options are introduced in Europe. In the opinion on the free choice of treatment, the Health Directorate refers precisely to the close relationship between the introduction of free treatment options and the Patient Rights Directive. The Health Directorate points out that the consequences of free treatment options for the public health service cannot be assessed in isolation. The size must look at the overall impact of the introduction of free treatment options and the directive on patients’ rights and the market alignment of healthcare that these reforms will lead to together. Being against free treatment options and for the Patient Rights Directive, we believe that there is a blind loyalty to the EEA Agreement. The Patient Rights Directive is not about giving rare diagnostics access to an international professional environment, as some try to produce it. International medical-professional cooperation is not a reinforcement of this Directive. The decisions of the Directive on cooperation between Member States in the field of health are based on the voluntary approach. While increased cooperation is voluntary, if the Directive is implemented, it is a duty to increase the market and free patient mobility between national borders. The main objective of the Directive is to ensure the free movement of services in a single European health market, where public and private providers are treated as equivalent nationally. This health market will then be harmonised with an EU/EEA cross-border market. The fact that rare diseases can be prioritised in a market system is unlikely. These patients will not be attractive or profitable in the health market created by the Directive. The Patient Rights Directive has been presented in the debate as a right for patients to have access to rare treatments that they will not be able to obtain in their home country. There is a false presentation of the facts. The Directive states in paragraphs 13, 31 and 33 that the obligation to cover costs of cross-border healthcare is limited to the healthcare that the patient is required to provide and that exists in the home country. Both the government and the EU ensure that today’s negligible level of cross-border healthcare will continue. Nevertheless, the purpose of the Directive is, under point 2, to ‘improve the functioning of the internal market and the free movement of goods and services’. The purpose of the Directive is therefore to facilitate the growth of this health market. The bill we are dealing with came after pressure from ESA, and had said that the monitoring body was not satisfied with the pre-approval system for the previous Stortinget. When things were up in Stortinget in the previous period, I said the following in my post: ‘In principle, national legislation is subject to EU law in all areas covered by the decisions on the free movement of services. While a territory is being opened, legal developments in this area will be determined by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Today’s Norwegian interpretation of the Directive will therefore be able to be corrected by decisions of the European Court of Justice.’ Someone says that the centre party has turned around when we now go against the directive. I would rather say that we take the consequence that the EU system has responded as we feared and pointed out, and believe that in today's situation the discussion is about pre-approval or not one of the skin debates between the Labour Party and the Right in particular. I would like to mention the proposal of the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party in the configuration. The centre party will reject the inclusion of the Patient Rights Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3128	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3131	The Patient Rights Directive clarifies and regulates patients’ right to reimbursement of healthcare costs received in another EEA country. The Directive makes practical arrangements for patients to use healthcare in other Member States, and the Left is pleased that the current reimbursement scheme for healthcare provision in the EEA area is now being extended to hospital treatment. This will make it easier to ensure high-quality cross-border healthcare and contribute to cooperation between Member States in the field of health. The left has – to some degree of doubt – stated that it is correct not to require prior authorisation for reimbursement of hospital expenses. Experience has shown that there is a limited number of patients who choose to use the freedom of choice to travel to another EEA country for treatment. From our own free hospital choice, there are also experienced few who opt outside their own company. It is therefore considered inappropriate to establish a bureaucratic system for the presumed low number of patients who will leave, which only helps to extend the waiting time for patients seeking treatment. However, we in the Left will follow developments over time and come back to the question if it turns out to be a more costly system than what we see today. In this respect, it is important to bear in mind that a prerequisite for covering the costs of treatment in another EEA country is that health care equivalent to the health care patient would be paid by the public in Norway. The reimbursement is limited to what health care would have cost the public in this country. For the Left, it is important that patients who have been assessed as entitled to the necessary health care from the specialist healthcare services under the Patient and User Rights Act should be able to apply for prior commitments. This ensures that the costs will be reimbursed afterwards, which will be particularly important for cost-intensive treatments. However, this access is also important to prevent the possibility of choosing treatment abroad not only from being used by resource-intensive patients. The right to cover costs of treatment abroad must not be reserved for those who can afford to advance hospital stays abroad. However, in the case of treatments that are clearly covered by the reimbursement scheme, prior authorisation would prevent the effective implementation of the treatment. The left is concerned that we should continue to have international cooperation on patient treatment, which helps to strengthen the professional competence of Norwegian hospitals and provides patients with better treatment. It is important that we also have wide professional competence in Norway, and that we have the ambition to be able to offer all patients. However, there will be patients with rare conditions that are now more likely to be offered treatment at hospitals in countries where acute competences have been developed in the area in question. These are patients who may not have time to wait for the necessary professional skills to be built up in Norway. Another example is those who want a ‘second opinion’ and who can easily access it through a wider environment of competence in another country. The development of professional competence in Norway should not hinder the right of these patients to receive adequate treatment in a hospital competent in this area. The left will have good professionally funded public health services, and the quality of services is more important than who performs them. We will work to ensure that public, non-profit and private health care settings complement each other, and we believe that the possibility of receiving treatment abroad will help to ensure that more patients receive adequate treatment and that the quality of health care we offer to our patients in sum will be strengthened. The left therefore supports the government's legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3144	The matter we are dealing with tonight is not a small matter even if it is presented as such. There's one thing that's not about anyone putting the patients first, while others put the system first. It is we who are against the directive, which takes into account that we need a healthcare system that is about patients' rights, rather than the development we are now seeing in Europe, where patients become more customers in a market. I fear that in time it will turn out that the decision of the Stortinget tonight is a far greater matter than the majority here in the Chamber gives the impression. Firstly, the number of patients using this scheme will be small, but what the future looks like in a Europe where national health services are integrated into a more and more commercial and insurance-based market, we know little about today. That's why I think the majority are taking a big risk when you're willing to release this. We want Norwegian health funds to develop healthcare in Norway. The most important thing we can do to put patients in the center is to expand the capacity of our own healthcare system. What we need is a health care system that sets needs first, not profitability. What this Directive really is is a kind of ex ante implementation of the principles of government reform, free treatment choice, which is a major privatisation and commercialisation reform. The introduction of the right-hand side policy will open up a completely different element of commercial healthcare in Norway — even for a period in which there will be different conditions between Norwegian actors and foreign actors. It may not initially have been the idea of free treatment choice. On the SV side, we see this directive as another step towards making health a good on a European market. We do not recognise that the EEA Agreement should have that kind of impact on Norway. It was never a theme when Norway signed the agreement. The EEA and the EU system are increasingly encompassing the welfare sector and are providing important services such as: health services more like industrial products and goods in a market. For this reason, SV was in grave doubt also during the previous period when the red-green government was receiving this directive. What led us finally to find out that we could support it at the time was just the pre-approval system that would provide a clear framework and clear limits to this system. The threat of a case before the EFTA Court has come in the meantime. The government has chosen to meet it with something that is logical from the political point of view of the government parties, namely a European release in line with the release they want for commercial players in Norway. But that development also makes it natural for SV today to go against the directive as such and also underlines that the fear we have had that the EU system will have a type of dynamic development towards more commercialisation and less control was correct. There are several arguments that we should say no to the directive. One thing I've already mentioned, and it's about control over the health funds. The second is about the principle. Do we want the Norwegian healthcare system to be integrated into a market, or should it be a system based on population rights regardless of profitability? The third is the issue of antibiotic resistance, which I have noticed that the Council of State has been less willing to address in the public debate. It is also worth remembering that in the newspaper earlier this autumn, Dag Berild, at the Department of Infective Medicine at the OUS, said that going in for this was contrary to all reason. Steinar Westin, professor of social medicine, said, "It is a senseless proposal." There are strong words that I expect the government parties to come into this debate. SV will vote in favour of the proposal we have made in the vote together with the Central Party to reject the directive. Secondly, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Although we are in doubt about whether it will be in the EEA and in meeting with ESA, we believe it is better for Norway to stand up for the policy adopted by the Stortinget than for us to give up without delay.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3162	The Patient Rights Directive was adopted in the EU in March 2011. Without prejudice to the consent of Storting, the Directive was incorporated into the EEA Agreement in the summer of 2014. This is the background for the government in the harvest promoting a consent proposition, Prop. 135 S for 2013–2014, to be dealt with today in Stortinget. The Patient Rights Directive clarifies patients’ right to reimbursement of healthcare costs that the patient has chosen to have carried out in another EU country. This is a regulation of rights already established by the Court of Justice of the European Union that patients have, as a result of the rules on the free movement of services laid down in the EU Treaty and the EEA Agreement. The Directive provides for the possibility of requiring prior hospital authorisation. However, an authorisation system must be limited to what is deemed necessary and proportionate and must not lead to arbitrary discrimination. The Directive also contains rules that make it practical for the patient to benefit from healthcare in other Member States. In addition, it provides for voluntary cooperation between countries. The formal requirements set out in the Directive are already largely covered by Norwegian health legislation. We have established a reimbursement scheme for healthcare received in other EEA countries that already covers the reimbursement rules of the Directive. However, the current reimbursement scheme does not include reimbursement of hospital expenses. I Prop. Therefore, 118 L for 2012–2013, Changes to the Patient and User Rights Act, etc., were proposed to extend the hospital treatment scheme. This was a proposal from the previous government. The size joined this. In addition, a provision of the People's Security Act to impose prior authorisation was adopted. In addition, some provisions were adopted which relate to patients from other EEA countries who wish to receive healthcare in Norway. This government puts the patient in the center. We have therefore re-evaluated the need for prior approval. In this context, we have weighed the need for healthcare planning and monitoring against patients’ needs and wishes for freedom of choice, short waiting and simple procedure. From the patient’s point of view, prior authorisation would limit the possibility of hospital treatment in other countries. Subject to prior authorisation, the patient will have the right to leave when he or she has to wait irresponsibly for a long time for the necessary hospital treatment in Norway. Such an obstacle will particularly affect patients with conditions where there is a small and limited professional environment in Norway. These patients will have reduced domestic choice and will have a particular need and desire to have access to medical competence in other European countries. That is the consequence of the minority's proposal in this case. Pre-authorisation is an instrument to limit patient flows to other EEA countries. The experience from Sweden, which has allowed patients to travel freely to other EEA countries since 2005, is that few patients choose to receive healthcare in other EEA countries. The Norwegian healthcare system is very good, and we're working to make it even better. In my opinion, there is no basis to believe that there will be very many patients who want to receive hospital treatment in other EEA countries. But those who want to choose it often have a very good reason for it. Our experience of free hospital choice in Norway is based on this assumption. It is, however, that we do not want patients to have to face a risk that they will not be able to meet the costs. That is why we are also setting up a pre-commitment system which allows patients who wish to receive a pre-commitment to cover the costs in line with the directive. The regulation and the system have been consulted. The five patient organisations that have expressed their opinion on these changes are all positive, including the Disability Joint Organisation, the Cancer Association and the Revmatik Association. Everyone is positive that this government is changing the system by removing prior approval and establishing a simple and orderly system for prior commitments. For me, that's the best proof that this system is a system that builds up under our vision of creating the patient's healthcare. Some of the submissions have tried to present it as if it were the threat from EFTA that we are proposing this. It's not. We have proposed this because we believe it is a good policy for the patient. It underpins the objective of the patient’s healthcare.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3190	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3193	I respect the argument, because it's the same as it was in the case itself. But I imagine a patient who is pretty bad and sick, who travels out and comes back, and it turns out that there's disagreement about whether deadlines are real, there's disagreement about the price of services, whether they're equivalent, etc. – and the uncertainty it entails for both the patient and its relatives. Is it not an extra load that could be avoided by having a system of pre-commitments, so that you were sure to release the extra load? Then the simple answer now must not be that there is an opportunity to ask for an undertaking, because very many people see an opportunity when it first opens up, and may not be aware of how complex hospital systems are and how different it is in other countries compared to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3198	But that's what the answer is: the patient can apply for pre-requisitions, which the representative also pulled out. The consequence of the Workers' Party's proposal is that the patient had an automatic rejection, with a bureaucratic justification that unfortunately, you forgot to apply in advance, you had actually had the right to recover the cost, but because you were so unfortunate not to apply in advance, you were refused. I think the patient would rather appreciate our model: having the opportunity to try his case, and having a right to recover the cost, a few will cover the cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3203	The next representative is Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3206	Now I'm excited, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3211	The Red-Green Government, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party, promoted Prop 118 L for 2012–2013, precisely on the implementation of the Patient Rights Directive. So it was the red-green government that did. Two of the parties withdrew and regret, of course, today that they had agreed to it, now they are voting against everything. The working party is still standing on its own, which I think is positive. But the government can confirm this: the only difference between these two, that is, Prop 118 L and what is now available, is that Prop 118 L requires prior approval before you leave, while what's available today, the government proposal, is that you can also apply for reimbursement after you've been out, if you've got a right to treatment. So the difference is if you can apply for reimbursement or if you can't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3216	The proposal made by the previous Government provided for a regulation in which a person could require prior approval as a prerequisite for the recovery of costs. What we are proposing is that you can get a pre-committee if you want to. But you can also cover the costs afterwards, if you have had expenses that you have the right to be covered under the Directive. You can search in retrospect without applying for a premise. There is the difference between these two proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3221	If you get seriously ill, you look for treatment, and you feel that you have little time. The minister says that it is possible to get a pre-requisition. This is because you don't want patients, if they don't do well, to be left with big debts in addition to a huge burden of disease – which very many do when they have serious diseases. Why is it so problematic that the patient gets that authorisation in the back when they can get an undertaking? So what's the difference? That they're going to know that this is OK, that they can travel, and you can make a system so they get a quick answer? What's the problem with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3228	There's no problem with that. That is why we are also proposing a pre-commitment arrangement. But I think it is problematic that patients should be refused a posteriori if, for various reasons, they were not applied for in advance, even if they had the right to recover the costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3233	The Council of State indicated in its statement that the matter had been heard. Then the government filed a case in the Council of State before the hearing period was over, almost a month before. In particular: The Public Health Institute and the Medical Association on the concern about the development of antibiotic resistance with the proposal. The question then is: why does the government bring a case before the hearing period was over, and why does the proposal not say one word about antibiotic resistance from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3241	This matter that we have to deal with in the Storting today, explains how the government intends to implement this scheme. Then there has been a parallel proposal out at the hearing related to the regulation, which is also public and accessible to all, and to which I referred in my post. The patient organisations that have expressed their views on it are pleased that the government has deviated from the requirement for prior approval, and they appear to be a reasonable system with the possibility of prior commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3246	First of all, I have to say that the new practice of a government party using replicating time is a little special. I think that the representative Nesvik and the Minister of Health have many other opportunities to clarify facts, and I would encourage Nesvik to use them. I would like to follow up the last line from Kjersti Toppe, because the Council of State is constantly avoiding talking about antibiotic resistance, even though leading professionals have expressed strong concerns about this proposal and antibiotic resistance. I will quote again from the Newspaper on 15 September: ‘If the government goes in to send Norwegian patients out of the country for surgery, it is contrary to all reason. This will lead to more resistant bacteria in Norway.’ That's what Dag Berild says. What is it that Steinar Westin and Dag Berild have not understood as the Minister of Health has understood, and is the Minister of Health not at all concerned about the differences between health services in some other countries and ours, as regards the extent of antibiotic-resistant bacteria?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3260	The reality is that Norway is part of the EEA Agreement. I know that the SV and the Center Party are not excited about it, but that is what we are doing, and I believe that is why the previous government – as the SV and the Center Party put in – made proposals for the implementation of this directive and made the necessary legislative changes required to implement it. It's about hospital treatment. A prior authorisation system could not be used — which may have been perceived in some of the interventions here — to refuse patients to go out to the EU area for patient treatment, on the basis, in general, of the fact that there are more multi-resistant bacteria in the EU. That would not have been possible, according to the directive, and that is therefore a wrong claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3267	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3272	I feel that it is timely to respond to the attack by the representative Nesvik on the Workers' Party. The first thing was that he thought it was timely to consider the way you are being treated, but I also understood in the reply that he realized that the matter was up in the spring of 2013, so it is perhaps more effective to implement what we lack, when the government that is sitting today chooses to go away from the good solution that we were able to negotiate, with advance commitments. We feel that there is a protection for the way we have chosen to finance our health care system, with public funding – similar to that in the United Kingdom, which is quite different from that in many other EU countries. I think it's important to be quite aware of what happens to market forces with hospitals in Europe that eventually face challenges with patients and funding – that they will have an interest in being attractive to Norwegian patients. When so little is available for all the types of treatment that may be possible, it will lead to quite a lot of bureaucracy when you go through all these different types of pre- and post-treatment to see what is right and equivalent price. So with bureaucracy, I think it's actually getting worse when it's going to be free, than if it's given prior commitments. But the most important thing for the Workers' Party is actually the patient's best. Patients are sick people. They need to be framed, they need predictability of an accepted treatment offer and an economic framework, and how this should be followed afterwards, and not least that the Norwegian healthcare system is based on a priority where the sick are to be treated first. Then there is already a very good network for rare diseases, which will be met with both the proposal that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and – earlier – the Left stood behind, and the proposal that is now there. There's no difference between the two. The question that I wanted to ask the Council of State when I asked for the word of line no. 2, is about how rudiments and psychiatric patients are to be cared for under this scheme, which does not have the same priority solution when the government promotes its proposal for free treatment but which the Workers' Party experiences in principle enjoys the same right as any other entitled to treatment in the specialist health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3285	I have a comment on antibiotic resistance – and on the vote. In the reply, the Council of State said that pre-approval cannot be used against the problem of antibiotic resistance. But the Institute of Public Health writes the following in its hearing statement: ‘According to the Patient Safety Directive, individual countries may refuse patients prior authorisation if the patient will be exposed to a risk that cannot be considered acceptable from the point of view of the benefit to the patient from receiving the healthcare. Prior authorisation may also be refused if the population is likely to be exposed to a significant safety risk as a result of cross-border healthcare, for example an outbreak of a dangerous infectious disease in the health institution concerned.» The fact that the Council of State then defines a health institution that has a major problem with antibiotic-resistant bacteria, out of this pre-authorisation approach, seems to me to be quite special. At least I haven't read this clearly anywhere. I could wish the Council of State were more clear on the problem of patient mobility when it comes to antibiotic resistance. As mentioned above, there was a great deal of concern in hearing cases about antibiotic resistance development, among other things. The Health Directorate is very clear. The Medical Association has asked for an assessment of the health and economic consequences of the proposal, but all this has been rejected by the government. In the bill proposal, this is not mentioned in one word, and I think that is very worrying. In reply to me in the Grand Council's Question Time on 3 December, the Council of State rejected the issue raised by the Medical Association, of the need to determine the health and economic consequences of the directive by creating a scare image. However, 25 000 people lose their lives every year in the EU as a result of antibiotic resistance, and it has a cost of 1.5 billion. euro. So this isn't a scary picture, it's a fact. We travel more and more, we do, but there is no reason why we should not listen to the medical profession, which also shows that patient mobility is a risk of contributing to the spread of resistance. I said in my post that we are primarily going for our own proposal to reject the directive. Then, as we have said in the vote, we shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, primarily to create a plural against the government's proposal. Unfortunately, the left has changed, but we do the same in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3308	I think it's a little alarming that the Council of State has not answered any specific questions about antibiotic resistance twice now. When I asked about it, it was not to get a lecture on the EEA Agreement – I know very well how the EEA Agreement works – I am interested to know what is the Council’s view on the concerns expressed by professionals regarding the risk of getting more antibiotic-resistant bacteria to Norway. I think it is reasonable for the Minister of Health to give his or her assessment of – EEA or not. So in this debate the Health Minister himself stressed that it was not the EEA Agreement that made him want to introduce this right in this way. This is good right-wing policy. If we are going to discuss the EEA first, it would well underline that the EEA Agreement has some good reason to support it. There is a lot and often a subscription scheme for Norway on right-wing policy. That's why some of us are opposed to it. But my question was therefore the concrete fear that some of our leading experts in antibiotic resistance have of the consequences of the decision we are making tonight. I think it's reasonable that the Health Minister makes an assessment of whether the professionals don't know what they're talking about, or whether it's actually that there's cause for concern. And if that's the case, it's also interesting to know what the Minister of Health is going to do with it. I also think it is a point to add a short comment to the Left's procedure in this case. The left has said one thing in the remarks in the position on the matter, in which they share our concerns about the directive. Today they vote against it. It's not quite good to say what it's left really means, when they do two completely different things. But I noticed in one thing the representative Kjeseth said in his post, namely that if this did not go well, the left would come back to the question. But the EEA agreement doesn't work that way. We cannot implement a directive and then come back to the question if we are dissatisfied with how it works. In that case, we will have to change the whole policy of the European Union in this area. That means that we have to decide whether to implement the directive or not. Unless we're sure you're doing well, you have the opportunity to say no now. That possibility will not be given to the Left in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3321	I might remind you that this directive will give patients an opportunity. In fact, in the EU, a scare picture is drawn by the country. Norway is a small country. We have a long tradition of cooperation internationally, not least with institutions in the EU. I remember, among other things, The heart bridge, which was established because we did not have this kind of competence in Norway. Now we have this kind of competence and fortunately we can operate our patients at home. At the time, no one asked questions about whether patients in Norway should be allowed to take part in this when they had a completely new advanced treatment available. We're talking about a health market. I want to talk about a healthcare service for patients who actually want treatment. This is about patients who are entitled to treatment, they have passed through the prescriber, they have been assessed in the specialist healthcare system, and they have been found to be entitled to treatment. This is not a randomness that arises, this will be carefully planned. If there is no such treatment in Norway and it is abroad, I think it is right and reasonable that the patient should be allowed to participate in it as part of the EEA/EU market. Then I would like to say something about what the Directive actually says in Section 3 ‘Health in the Union has a central role’. They say it's about social protection, it's about social cohesion, and it's about social justice. This applies not only to Norway, but also to those who are members of the EU or members of the EEA. It's about equivalence and an equal opportunity for patients who don't have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3330	One would think that this was not a unanimous decision in the previous period. When SV and the Senterpartiet were in government, this was clearly less controversial. I hear today that they have become concerned about the directive. Hardly a year has passed since then. I can reassure the representative, Audun Lysbakken, that the Left is the 'yes-to-EEA' party. It is not the principle of having this directive that we are against; what we have been sceptical about is, among other things, costs. I will honestly admit that the difference in approval and commitments we had to go some rounds with ourselves. Once we've got the acceptance that coming back is an opening that should actually exist, we think part of this makes sense. For it is as Ormmen Johnsen says: It is the patient who is in the centre – it is not Norway who should send patients abroad, it is the patients themselves who must actively choose. It is also about patients having to obtain information in advance in order to make that choice. Then we get into antibiotic resistance, which is not an entirely immaterial part of the debate – we have to admit that. 90 pst. the prescription of antibiotics in Norway is made by permanent practitioners. It is reasonable to assume that there is a similar picture in other countries, that is already possible. Most of us get into the primary health service as tourists far more than we get into the hospital as patients, because then we actually have to choose. It is also worth noting that Norway is about the middle of the tree in terms of antibiotic use. In fact, there are more countries in Europe that are significantly better than us. So we have something to learn, and it's about cooperation, among other things. It is clear that there is a difference between choosing treatment in Sweden, Denmark and Germany versus some southern European countries, which have a different bacterial flora and a different practice of prescribing antibiotics. However, Greece, which has been experiencing a major economic crisis, has significantly reduced its antibiotic use in this crisis. Obviously, there's a lot to learn here. It's best for the patient's chances that we say yes to this. It's not because we're going to be protectionist, or because we think we're world champions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3345	It is worth recalling that it was a unanimous decision to implement this Directive in Norwegian law. The main difference is related to the question of prior approval requirements. I have not used an argument in that debate that this is something we are forced to do. On the contrary, I am very clear that this is a change that I believe makes sense. When I was working on the follow-up of Prop. 118 L for 2012–2013, which was promoted by the previous government, I thought: Will it be possible for me, as Minister of Health and Care, to defend against a patient that he has been refused because he did not apply in advance? My simple answer to that was: No, I thought it was a very bad situation to get into. That is why I took the initiative on the changes that we sent to the hearing, which we are asking for in the Storting today to implement. The Joint Organisation of disabled persons writes in its opinion on this proposal in which they also mention proposals from the previous government that they were disappointed with the proposal put forward by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in Proposition 118 L, which was subsequently adopted in the Stortinget. They perceived that requiring prior hospital authorisation in another EEA country made it very difficult for patients to choose such an alternative. They continue to say that they support the proposal. They think it makes sense, what the current government has sent to the hearing, and underline not least the importance for patients with rare conditions. I think it is wise to listen to the patients in this matter. When it comes to the question of multi-resistant bacteria, it's a very big and serious question. In addition to the current situation related to Ebola in West Africa, it is the matter that I give the highest priority to working with internationally. We are now also working on the follow-up to expert groups' recommendations nationally on which new measures to put in place there, but it is not least a question that needs to be resolved internationally. What I don't think is an answer to multi-resistance is an idea that one should close the border of people who want to travel on vacation – an area where we really are at risk of multi-resistance, is on our holiday trips to Thailand and other countries – preventing people from seeking health care in other countries, or closing the border for imports of food. There is also a broad consensus that national isolation does not respond to the challenges of multi-resistant bacteria. It does national action in combination with international work. In many ways, this is parallel to the climate challenges: there are many parallels between climate challenges and the question of multi-resistant bacteria, but national isolation is not the answer to any of the two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3357	When I choose to take the word, it's because it was compared to the Heart Bridge, which went on in its time. I followed it quite closely as a nurse. There were pre-approved hospitals the patients were sent to, it was agreed, they were approved, and it sometimes went to doctors from Norway to learn. When the Christian People's Party now asks for a prior approval today, it is precisely to ensure quality. It's not to stick the screws in the wheels. In fact, it is for patients with rare diseases to know that the offer is there and that they will be given an authorisation before they leave. Where we lack knowledge, Norwegian doctors should, of course, be able to participate in and learn. It was just supposed to be missing. In the case of multi-resistant bacteria, the Christian People's Party is not concerned that we should close borders. We are concerned that we need to exchange knowledge, but at the same time we know that some countries have a completely different relationship with the printing of antibiotics. We know that from Norwegian medical students who come home and have learned a completely different use from what we put up for in Norway. That's why it's a challenge we can't put under the chair, but we actually have to look at when we're going to approve the partners abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3364	Audun Lightbox has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3367	Thank you to the Minister of Health for finally commenting on the issue of multi-resistant bacteria. But I notice that the council doesn't do anything to respond to the experts' warnings. I think that's interesting. That must mean that there is reason to take them seriously. I understand the Government's argument for his own proposal that he expects this scheme to be used more than it would have been with the previous government proposal. That's the whole point. We do not want national isolation, this is a question of whether or not we should seek greater European integration in this situation. The Health Minister prioritises the work against multi-resistant bacteria, against antibiotic resistance. We're very pleased about that, but at the same time he goes in with open eyes for something that leading experts think would seem negative on the same goal. It's a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3376	First to the representative Lighthouse: I don't think it's going to be a habit that I ask questions to the Council of State, but in a situation like this, it's to solve certain issues without necessarily spending your speaking time on that particular piece. It was absolutely necessary in this case to clarify here in the hall what is the difference between the two sides. According to Storting's Rules of Procedure, I am fully entitled to ask questions to the government, even if it is not going to be a habit. So a few small comments at the end. It's a little strange, a little bit eye-catching, because first the representative Grung goes to the pulpit and criticises the council because she thinks that Prop. 118 L for 2012–2013, if the Patient Rights Directive was not implemented quickly enough – that is what was criticised – and then the then government partners of the Centre and the Socialist Left Party criticise the implementation of the Directive, even if it is intended that patients who have not been able to apply or have not applied before they left should have their case tried. And then it all comes down to the fact that the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party criticise the Left for the fact that the Left has taken a different view of the vote vote here in the Chamber than they did in the Committee. The two parties have not just turned around once – they have turned around completely in this matter and suddenly go against the whole directive. It's kind of eye-catching. It's important, as several of us have pointed out, that this is for the benefit of patients. I don't know how many times I've been on the Health Committee for the years I've been in, I've met patients who've been abroad and treated, and who have been entitled to treatment in Norway. They think it's bloody unfair. They've even gotten fresh. There are people who have been in line and perhaps waiting for a heart operation, waiting for significant health care, while they have felt that they have become worse and worse in their own country because the queue has been so long. Then they've been out and been treated. Until now, they have been prevented from being able to refund this, despite the fact that you are told to get help in the healthcare system. But you cannot try your case because it lacks prior approval. That's what this is all about. Therefore, it is important that we give this opportunity in this matter to which it is now added by the government, precisely that it is in the interests of patients and patients' ability to apply. There is no guarantee to get it refunded, but at least you haven't automatically lost the right to apply, like Prop. 118 L added up to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3385	Acceptance or commitment is what we are really discussing today, not yes or no to the directive, but now someone has taken a different position. When the Light Hill comes into isolation or cooperation and integration, I think it's an interesting part of the discussion, for the future, towards 2030, we're probably going to be one million more inhabitants. In addition, we get a strongly ageing population. In that perspective, I really believe that we need cooperation and integration. At least we need to share knowledge and skills and to learn from other actors. If we are to tackle the major capacity challenge we are going to face in the health sector over the next 15-20 years, I think we need to think completely new to create both hands and heads and capacity to meet that challenge. Then I think it is also a good idea that we have agreed cooperation patterns, especially with our neighbouring countries, to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3392	The representative Kristin Örmen Johnsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3395	I just want to say to the representative of Bollestad that this, with the prior approval of a hospital, is not part of the directive. It is not suggested that the Norwegian State should give prior approval to the hospital in which the individual is to be treated. It is not part of this Directive. I would also like to say that this with antibiotic resistance is being solved with cooperation across countries. That's why it's incredibly important to work internationally and learn from each other. This is not solved by pulling down the roller blind in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3400	It's quite touching that the representative Nesvik goes to the pulpit and is concerned about treatment cows, while at the same time aging the budget by cutting the hospitals, by cutting health regions, yes, by cutting the possibility of extending the treatment offer and improving the quality of hospitals. Take, for example: my own local hospital, St. Olav's Hospital, which next year must cut 100 million. kr because the representatives of the Party of Advancement and the Right are budgeting their budgets with cuts to the hospitals, with cuts to the community, while giving large tax cuts to the richest of Norway. That is the way the Right Party and the Advance Party are balancing their budgets. Then the representative Nesvik says here that there is no guarantee that you will be refunded what you have been treated for. That's exactly what he said. So the Minister of Health says we're going to have a treatment commitment. But why in all days should you have a treatment commitment if there is no guarantee that it will be refunded? If you have a prior approval, you know that either you get it approved, or you don't get it approved – no false hopes. It's not like we're opposed to sending patients abroad. We would have opposed the whole directive. We are in order for them to have a clear situation, that they know whether they will be refunded, or whether they will not be refunded, not that one should have a floating situation where, as the representative Nesvik says, there is no guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3407	The representative Kjersti Toppe has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3410	This has been a debate on pre-approval and pre-signature. I want to make it clear that when Stortinget adopted the Patient Rights Directive in the previous period, it was with a unanimous increase. So both the Right Party and the Advance Party voted in favour of pre-approval, without the fact that there was one word in the comments, one word in the debate, if for what reason this was such a bad idea. Vips comes up with a new case, and then this is so very stupid to introduce. So there are several parties that have at least changed their eyesight, if that's what the criticism is going on today. When it comes to antibiotic resistance, I'm going to join in what the representative Lysbakken said. It's great that the Minister of Health comes and has a comment, but it's not very likely that he'll deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3417	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3421	When the representative of Otterstad is going to be high and dark on the platform, he should at least have read the matter. I strongly recommend that the representative read his file and see what this is all about. When we talk about whether you can apply for reimbursement when you have gone out and received treatment without prior confirmation: then you are not guaranteed to receive it. That's what this is all about. But you can also apply for prior commitments. Then you already have the guarantee that you get it. I propose that the representative of Otterstad should at least read the documents and not use the pulpit to show that he has not been involved in the matter. In terms of hospital savings: In two years, this government increased the appropriations allocated to health businesses and increased patient treatment, more than the red-green received in eight years. If I had been the representative of Otterstad, I would sit down and read my documents.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3430	I'm sure you can discuss who's high and dark in this debate, but there are some dividing lines going on. I think we agree -- most of us -- that we want to put the patient in the center. But then the discussion of the instruments begins. We don't bring down the roller blinds in the Workers' Party because if we're careful and careful about what's here a health market. We don't pull down the roller blinds because we say no to a free treatment choice for patients. That's the exact opposite we're doing. We're putting the patient in the center. We want to have control and priority of who needs treatment within the given resources. Besides, we have more resources. The representative, Nesvik, says that there has never been so much money. But there has never been such a need. There have never been so many people in this country who need health care. While the representative Nesvik and his colleagues spend over 10 billion. In this budget and in the previous budget, we use it in hospitals and on welfare goods instead. That's why we have more than the Progress Party and the Right and the Health Support Parties and those who need our help, be it in health care or within municipalities, schools, other welfare services, etc. That's the big differences here. This is actually also a choice of values and a certain amount of care on our part to ensure that we do the right priorities, and to ensure that we have a national health care system that takes care of all patients, including those who need it the most. Who is it that has these possibilities? Let's ask questions about it: who is it that has these possibilities? Are we going to throw blues in people's eyes? If you don't have a prior approval, maybe people come back from abroad with a million bill that they don't get covered, and then we've sent out signals that they might get it covered. Then I think it's much more real to say that it should be a prior approval, so you know what you have to deal with. This isn't a either-or, it's a boat-and-and. But there is also some caution and a certain priority in this. If you see this in the context of free treatment choices, today's government with the supporting parties, especially the Left, is developing a health market that is not the best for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3445	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3459	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3468	The issue here concerns the provision of health and well-being services to students. Students have chosen to organise themselves in different ways. A common denominator is that in most of the major study cities — at the main study sites — they have chosen a Community model where they pay part of the holiday fee and organise their health services through well-being or through interactions. The SHoT study, which is the student’s health and well-being study, showed that 19 pst. students have severe psychiatric disorders. It shows that women are more vulnerable than men. It shows that more students feel lonely, and that many students struggle with mastering. This has taken the students into account as best they can with their resources, and I want to commend the institutions and places of study for being involved in and facilitating good trial projects and projects to reduce alcohol consumption, to increase mastering and to increase implementation. In this case, four proposals were made. For the Workers' Party, we have always been concerned with the results, trying to get at the very best for the students. Therefore, we have chosen – and tried to do the best – not to polemise. We know that the answer to the 1,000 health guesses is three things: it's the primary health report, it's the medical report, and that's the health plan. That is why we propose, among other things, as the Council of State corresponds to the Stortinget on one of the proposals, that there be a communication on primary health in the spring of 2015. One of our suggestions is that the student's opportunity to have an extra permanent staff should be examined in more detail, because we did not feel very comfortable going into the Left's representative's proposal. We very much hoped that we could get the government parties and the government council to look into this special group, because in the form of a note, all the parties on the Stortinget agree that the students are in a very special situation. With the exception of Oslo, it's often the way most students move to a new place. You're going to get new contacts, maybe it's the first time you move away from home. You have to learn to study, which is also demanding, and you have to master life all by yourself, maybe far from parents and nourishment. Then it is easy to fail. Then it's easy to fall outside. This is also why several health companies have seen the benefits of the students’ own healthcare services, which are organised jointly, among other things. Health Mid-Norway or Health South-East supports students' mental health services with a few million dollars, so they get extra jobs. It can be health sisters, and it can be psychologists and other health professionals. So once again, we choose to create a broad majority not to polemize. We could refer to the Workers' Party's alternative budget, but we haven't done that to try to create the widest possible majority. That's why I have to say that it is regrettable that neither the government parties nor the support parties can be involved in a proposal that, through the revised national budget, we take into account the seriousness of the SHOT survey, assumes that students' health services are specifically targeted at one target group, towards some young adults who are in a very special life situation, and that we could have supported even better on their mental health services. I'm sorry. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Left of the representatives of Kjeseth, Nybø and Raja are promoting a proposal on student health, and that we are discussing this in Stortinget. There I fully agree with the Norwegian student organisation. But I might recommend and recommend to the Left the next time you want to have a discussion on the topic, rather to have an interpellation, because it seems a little strange to me to promote a proposal and then get away from all the suggestions in the matter when it really counts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3483	The proposal from the Left focuses on an important area, namely the health of students. It's really not much that separates the parties in this case. We all, of course, agree that we want to ensure students' health as best as possible. It is interesting to discuss whether the health situation of students is very different from that of other young people. But first of all, it is important to stress that most students like their studies and feel that they master their lives well. Then, however, the students' own health and well-being studies show a gradual negative development related to the number of students who are struggling with mental health problems. It's a challenge. At the same time, there is much evidence that these findings are linked to a general development of society. The Public Health Institute recently presented an important report on the state of health in Norway. Children and young people’s health challenges are an important part of this. So much as 15-20 pst. among children and young people between the ages of 3 and 18 have decreased function due to mental distress such as anxiety, depression and behavioural problems. About 8 pst. The report states that children and young people have serious problems that meet the requirements of mental illness. As I said, there are small differences in this case. Distinguishing lines go around whether students are entitled to two trainees, whether municipalities with colleges or universities should have their own grant schemes, whether we should subsidise prevention for young adults aged 20-24 years and whether funds should be earmarked for mental health professionals in student co-operation. There is no doubt that many students experience a huge gap between expectations and demands that they place on their lives, and the way it actually happens. It affects and challenges mental health in particular. But students are not a uniform, homogeneous group. They're just as unique and different as all of us are. Therefore, the government parties, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, agree that the most important thing we can do is to develop a good universal and accessible health service in the municipalities, where students also get access to the help they need. We don't need, we think, an investigation into the role of the firmer in relation to students as a group. We need a completely necessary and long-term long-term commitment to the close health services where students live and stay. The studies show that the causes of student health challenges are complex and that interdisciplinary and broad responses are required in many areas. We are pleased that the government has raised the issue of mental health high on the political agenda. This area has not been properly prioritised in the last eight years with a red-green government, but in next year's budget there will be a record investment in health services. Good early work, getting a proper start on schooling and life as a child and youth, is important for health — including those who become students. Several psychologists in the municipalities, a coming primary health report that will also mention the provision of health care to children and young people, and an individual youth health strategy that will see young people’s problems with new eyes, are some of the government’s important steps towards better health care for children, young people and students. At the same time, we know that there are a number of things that are important and can be improved – including at study sites. We are impressed by the work done in student associations and relationships, and see that it creates a sense of belonging and important relationships for many. An important part of the student’s health situation is related to sexual health. Highly accessible prevention and good guidance can be important measures to reduce the number of unwanted pregnancies and abortions. One of the most important measures we can take for students is probably to ensure that health services targeting sexual health are available at the study sites. In the next year's budget, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left want projects with Sex and Society to be tested in cooperation with the school health service and student relations to ensure precisely such good services for the students. At other places of study, the government’s proposal to provide health sisters and midwives at health centres with all forms of contraception will be an important low threshold offer. Instead of using funds to subsidise long-term prevention methods for young adults between 20 and 24 years of age, we believe it is a better investment to expand the overall offer for all young people, including students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3502	Psychiatric disorders are one of the major public diseases. That is why I am pleased that the government is putting mental health on the political agenda and is clearly committed to this in the 2015 state budget. Too many years of drug addiction and mental health have been neglected, and considerable resources are required to ensure that the health service remains at an acceptable level. This is now done with the Right and Advance Party of Government. The Progress Party takes seriously the results of the Student Health and Welfare Survey, the SHoT study. It shows that several students are struggling with mental health problems. The incidence of people reporting severe psychiatric symptoms is twice as high among students as among others in the same age group. This testifies to the fact that many young people experience study time as a demanding time. At the same time, I would warn against presenting students in general as a group of mentally ill people. Most students are resource-intensive young women and men who face new challenges, new experiences and new opportunities — and do so with good health and courage. They are in a very exciting time in life – they learn, they meet new people, and they are molded into our future citizens. At the same time, most people look back at youth as a period of constant ups and downs and many feelings of good and bad. Let's not forget that our young people are incredibly good, and let's not forget all the positive things our young people contribute to society. They get engaged, they train more than before, they smoke less, and they're good at doing volunteer work. In general, students drink slightly more than the population as a whole during the study period, but the trend shows that alcohol consumption is stabilising on normal consumption after the study period and that young people generally drink less today than a few years ago. Youths most are in a vulnerable period of life, it's one of the things that it involves being young. It's about finding yourself and its place in life. Especially vulnerable, our young people can become in the situation when they move from their mother and father for the first time, often far from home, while in need of economics, little networking – and a bit of longing for homes. When our students experience problems with their mental health, there should be health services available to catch them. Our students will be helped to master the everyday life, the study situation and their health in the same way as everyone else. In that case, the proximity to healthcare is crucial. Closeness is essential for a functioning fixed medical system. The fixed medical system assumes that everyone who is temporarily resident in a municipality should be able to get away with a regular doctor, even at the place where they have not chosen their permanent staff. A good cooperation between the municipality, the place of study and the student contacts is the key to achieving as much as possible at the earliest possible time. The Government has notified that parts of the fixed medical device should be passed through to facilitate the increased use of other staff in relation to the permanent medical centres. This will be included in the notification of the primary health service. The government has also announced that they will present a youth strategy for the Storting. This has been very longing. Today, we have strategies for children, adults and the elderly. Adolescents are a time that is too often forgotten, and have missed their deserved attention. Youth is very different from the other periods of life. That is why I am very pleased that the youth strategy becomes a reality with this government. I am also pleased that the government and the cooperation parties are continuing the recruitment grant in 2015. It gives room to recruit even more psychologists in 2015. It will also benefit our students. The government is delivering. One of the proposals that this draft representative first contained has already been implemented by this government. This concerns the amendment of the regulation on the requisition and supply of all types of contraceptives. This means that the right of healthcare providers and midwives in health and school health services to seek and provide prevention is extended to all women over 16 years of age, irrespective of their place of employment and all forms of contraception.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3525	I want to start by thanking the Left for the representative proposal. The Christian People's Party had intended to follow some of the proposals for decisions, but then we see that these go into one whole, and that there are minority proposals. The Christian People's Party will signal in the introduction that we are going to support the proposal of the Center Party. We wish it was free contraception up to 24 years, but we can start with subsidization. The Christian People’s Party – and everyone in this room – knows that there are many people with mental problems, especially in childhood and youth. There is an increased risk of experiencing mental distress and suffering later in life if you get it in early childhood. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party believes that it is vital that children and young people receive the help they need when they need it. When, according to the student survey, we know that 19 pst. of young people have serious mental and mental health problems, i.e. that the size is twice the size of the population otherwise, we have a challenge. This means that we need more accessible lowthreshold services both in municipalities and in places of study. If we want a low-threshold offer, the teenagers, the young or the students cannot meet a closed door when the need is there – or burst capacity and long waiting lists. Young people are young people, and they need help there and there. That is why the Christian People's Party wants to earmark funds in its alternative budget for mental health, precisely because we want to be sure that we are able to build up these measures and ensure that the young people get help when they need it. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that we found in the budget agreement that we want to get more jobs in the school health service, and that more Sex and Societal Centres are being added around in our country where student places are available. Student health is important on a general basis, not only in terms of sex, but also in terms of all other health issues. The Christian People's Party is engaged in a multidisciplinary competence in meeting with the young. The Christian People's Party has also called for regulatory changes to the mental health of children in municipalities on several occasions – regulatory changes that say who is responsible for the mental health of children in the community health service. Because it's not like it's about one time you become a student that you get mental challenges, many have this from a small age. The earlier the effort comes, the better help you get, and the more you manage to cope with bigger adult suffering. This needs to be clarified in the community health service: Who is responsible for the mental health of children? The Christian People's Party is also committed to meeting the youth on their challenges. We know that one of the biggest challenges is that for Norwegian youth, abortion rates are deciduously highest between 20 and 24 years of age. We know that prevention is a matter of prevention, and we know that there are results, where you gave them free contraception from 16 to 19. We know the consequences of abortion on mental health for young people. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is committed to offering free contraception. We want to go in with guidance, and we want to go in with knowledge. The Christian People's Party would wish that the Left had stood on the proposal to look at the possibility of starting with an extension/regression of free contraception up to 24 years. When it isn't, the Christian People's Party wants to follow the Center Party on their suggestions. But we as big people should take on that one of the biggest challenges is actually the high abortion rates, which also pose mental challenges. Then we might have to be willing to put money on the table. Then I am glad that there is a youth health strategy – I am not in doubt about it – but we must not lie on the lat side and wait until it comes when there are concrete measures we can take until it comes, which, when it comes, can be implemented in the plan itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3546	The left has four proposals to strengthen the provision of health and well-being for students. They have proposed to ask the government to grant students a right to have one permanent resident and one at the place of study; they have proposed to establish a state grant scheme to increase the overall capacity of the university; they have proposed to extend the system of subsidised prevention to young people up to and including 24 years of age; and finally, they have proposed to extend their right of pre-emption to midwives and health sisters. I think this proposal from the Left is a very topical proposal. There has been an investigation that confirms the need to look at the health and well-being of students as a group. The concrete proposals are those that have been discussed earlier in the Storting but which are also current and which need to be discussed again. I have probably not experienced the same thing, that those who are behind a proposal for a representative fall from all their own proposals when it comes to voting, and vote for the proposal to be annexed to the Minutes. When we look at the concrete proposals, I can understand the last proposal, to extend the right to prescribe to midwives and health sisters, because this has already been addressed by the government – a matter has been put to the fore about that. But one has also fallen from the proposal to extend the system of subsidised prevention up to and including 24 years. And what is very alarming is that this proposal was put forward at the same time as the Left's representatives voted against the same proposal in the Christian People's Party on abortion prevention measures. So that's what I'm responding to. In the case of proposal No: 2, establishing an add-on scheme to increase the general medical capacity at the place of study, this is recorded from the opposition party, and the Centre Party is involved and supports it. I think it's okay that this can be reconsidered. It has been discussed before, but it is a good suggestion that we get a new assessment of it. When it comes to the first proposal, to outlaw the role and the possibility of having two definites at the same time, it is also taken up as a concrete proposal. The centre party will vote for all the left-hand proposals in this case. We also make a separate suggestion in the setting. It is an obligation to provide for a system of subsidisation of long-term prevention methods for young people aged 20 to 24. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party is signaling support for that proposal. I hope that perhaps others can vote in favour of it subsidiaryly. The centre party is aware that we do not want a free arrangement. It's a total estimate, but it's a big problem that there's so much abortion between 20 and 24 years old. We know that many people who take abortion use contraception, but it's not safe enough methods. Then it's a fact that the safest methods of prevention, i.e. the long-term methods, are expensive in one-off purchases. For students as a group, I can understand that a lot of people actually can't afford the one-time payment that this is. I've asked the Minister of Health about this in a written question, and the answer is that if one takes that cost over time, that is, how many years this is for, this is a cheaper method of contraception. It's right and wrong at the same time. Because it is cheap over the years, but it is expensive in one-off purchases, and then we know that those who are weak will not make it – that is why this proposal. I had hoped that it might have been a proposal that could have got multiples. I will deal with that suggestion in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3565	The representative Kjersti Toppe has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3568	The Left has promoted this proposal for a representative containing four proposals for action: right to a permanent staff member at the place of study and a State grant scheme at the place of residence in order to increase the general selling capacity of study places and to strengthen the capacity of the mental health service for students in particular to extend the subsidiary prevention scheme to cover the right of the midwives and the health care sister to prescribe contraceptives; The proposal was promoted on 22 May, and that was seven months ago. Fortunately, something has happened after that. One of the elements is that the Left and Government parties have said that we want to develop a youth health strategy. It's one of the things I feel like one of the winners of the proposal we've been making, that we're now putting the spotlight on youth health for the first time in Norway, and we really appreciate that the government will be there. Then there have been negotiations on the state budget, and the Left and Christian People's Party have a cooperation agreement with the government parties that deal with the economy. As far as prevention is concerned, there was no breakthrough in the negotiations to extend the system of subsidised prevention beyond 20 years. We have to deal with that – as a cooperation agreement is also binding. Since 22 May, the primary care message has also been notified, and this is how it becomes an important milestone to review, among other things. the medical capacity and the ability to have two permanent doctors. That's why we don't want to commit to that very scheme in this proposal. We think there may also be more groups that need flexibility in terms of real estate agents. We want to have a review of the entire fixed medical system as part of the primary care message. As far as another part of the proposal is concerned, in the budget negotiations we have had the advantage of a two-way trial that student relationships, health centres and sex and social centres can work together to increase the capacity of students. As others have pointed out, the SHOT study – which is also a very good study, because it has been done exactly the same over several years, i.e. a qualitatively good study – shows that students are now struggling slightly more than they have done in the past in the area of mental health in particular. Here it's open to see how we're going to deploy the resources when we see that there's a need to strengthen this field. Another part of this is that there are quite considerable differences in the funding and organisation of the student health and welfare offer. In Bergen, the health enterprise grants a grant of 20 pst. to the student health service. In Oslo, the employees of the Student Health Service are employed in the Municipality of Oslo. In Oppland, which has two colleges, one at Gjøvik and one at Lillehammer, they do not receive any grants from either municipality, state or enterprise. It goes without saying that then the burden will increase on the students who will pay this through the holiday fee. Everything suggests that there is a need for increased capacity. Another moment that it is very interesting to look forward to in the context of the primary care message and other health related messages next year is the particularity of student relationships. They are currently organising a very successful welfare and health provision for their target group, and it is mainly funded by the students themselves. It's a rather homogeneous target group they're targeting, and it's an attractive professional environment. Especially in Oslo and Bergen there is a great application to work with this group. For the Left, we find it very interesting to discuss whether student relations can be further used to contribute to both capacity and quality to especially young people. Then we also discuss whether there are other young people than students who will have access to the offer organised by student relations. There's all reason, and there's a lot of communication that opens up for those who are not students to pay off. This will also be an exciting debate in the future, and that is some of the reasons why the Left is not on the original proposals, because there is a debate that we want to pursue in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3600	I must first praise the Left for promoting these proposals. It's quite in place, I think, that we're discussing the students' particular health challenges and the opportunities to pursue a good health policy towards the student group here at Stortinget. There is every reason to take seriously the health challenges that studies have recently shown us in the student population. It's about several things. For some, the very period in which you begin higher education is a vulnerable moment in life. We know that this is the time when many lose contact with health care and other services in the municipalities. It is also the case, as the representative Kjeseth pointed out, that student relations are a separate form of welfare organisation on the side of the public offer, but which plays an important role in some places in the country, and can play a more important role if we want to. Taking this part of student policy and health policy seriously is a long-term investment in something important, and at a time when we have, among other things, the possibility of making better efforts to prevent young people from developing mental problems. Sexual and reproductive health must be part of this work. SV wants, as we have shown in dealing with previous issues in the Stortingen this year, to extend the arrangements of free prevention to young people. We believe that what representatives point to in the proposal on mental health is important, and that is why we have agreed on the proposal to ask the government to return with earmarked funds for mental health professionals in the context of the revision of the national budget. We also think that the proposal to look at the possibility of having two permanent doctors is an exciting and important proposal. The majority have now resorted to a much more moderate wording than in the original proposal of the Left. Now we in the minority of the committee want to investigate this. I find that difficult to see costs the large amount of money, and I am therefore a little surprised that there should be something left that cannot be supported, by reference to its budget agreement. Now that I have said a lot about the Left's proposals, I must also be allowed to say that I can never remember having experienced before in the Stortinget that a party has voted against its own proposals in its own document 8. It is especially and a little disappointing to those of us who think more of the proposals are good, and we have even tried to promote them in a more moderate form than the Left suggested itself. The representative, Kjeseth, said something had happened since May, and it must have happened a bit of each. I understand that there are certain things the Left cannot do for the sake of the budgetary agreement, but it is difficult to understand that all these proposals are covered by it. For those who do what would cost money, it is only to note that the Left has not prioritised the proposals that they themselves have made in this Document 8, so high that it was among the Left's priorities to give the Left's money out of the budgetary agreement, to. I think that will be noticed by those who are burning for the proposals that the Left has also promoted here. SV will vote in favour of the proposals we agree to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3615	I just want to start by saying that what the Left does in this case, namely not to vote in favour of its own proposals, because a person has been partially impressed, that there is work going on in the government, or that one has been through a budget debate, is neither new nor alarming. It's actually quite normal, and at least I've experienced it very many times from different parties over the 14 years I've been on the Storting. But at least I would like to thank the Left for raising the question of student health care. Health and education are very closely linked. We know that mental health is often the cause of high school drop-outs. We also know that 7-15 pst. studies that have been referred to in the debate have also been shown. This is due, inter alia, to: low quality of study, low level of effectiveness — the failure of one to achieve a goal — and sometimes a reduction in quality of life, solitude and, in some cases, mental health challenges. We know that women between the ages of 20 and 24 are the most likely to have abortions, and that is also the most commonly used age group. This means that this group needs accessible lowthreshold services, such as medical services, psychologists, prevention counselling and access to prevention. Access to prevention and prevention guidance is important to reduce abortion rates. We need to make prevention, prevention consultations and prevention information easily available to all groups of the fertility population. The Government has therefore proposed that health sisters and midwives be entitled to all types of hormonal contraceptive and copper spiral, irrespective of the place of employment. This means that students can visit health centres for young people, student health facilities or midwives in the municipality they are studying. The proposal will help young students find a method of contraception that works best for them, without having to walk the road to regularity at home. The proposal is in consultation until 15 December, and we aim to be able to adopt the new regulation during the spring of 2015. We need to strengthen competence in mental health in municipalities, and competence needs to benefit users. In the State budget, the government has proposed to strengthen the availability of lowthreshold services in mental health work in municipalities. We will strengthen the number of annual works in the municipalities and ensure that there is a legal requirement for psychological competence in the municipalities. In the big news about the primary health service of the future, which we will present to the Stortinget in spring, we will be clear on how to achieve a better low-threshold offer in municipalities, and such an offer will also benefit students. The public health report, which we present to spring, will focus on including mental health in public health work. Mental health should be as important as physical health in promoting public health. It is simply about creating a society that promotes mental health and the ability and ability to master what everyone experiences as the challenges of everyday life, and students have equal rights to immediate help when they need it. According to § 3-1 of the Health and Care Services Act, each municipality must ensure that persons staying in the municipality are provided with the necessary health and care services and, in order to fulfil this responsibility, the municipality must, inter alia,: provide a fixed medical system, medical watch and emergency medical service. This means that the municipality must also ensure that students, or others with permanent qualifications in a municipality other than the municipality of residence, have access to the necessary health care. Municipalities with many commuters and students etc. shall ensure, in the planning of medical services, that the decision-makers have overall capacity to receive them as well. Through circulars, municipalities are encouraged, in cooperation with the local authorities, to find solutions in the field of e.g.: students with chronic disorders and the need for continuity in medical care both at the place of study and at the place of residence. Study time is special. Many move from home for the first time and are in a situation of life that is characterized by more instability than in other periods of life. For some, this is demanding, while for others, it feels like a whole new world that is opening up – new friends and exciting studies. The government will therefore provide easily accessible healthcare to those who need it, and this, of course, also applies to students. We simply call it good resource management. Investing in young people's health is actually one of the most important things we can do for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3637	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3640	At the presentation of the SHoT study, the Minister of Health expressed his intention to invest in the mental health provision in the municipalities and did not mention the mental health provision that the students themselves have built up for their own money in common, with several psychologists, in several major cities, in several major study places, with one single word. Does the Minister of Health think that the mental health service that the students have built up does not have an effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3647	Of course I don't mean that. I am very pleased with a lot of the work that student relations do in providing students with good welfare and health services. It's a work I've been following very closely all my time as an active local politician and as a big-time representative, and I appreciate it very much and think it's important. However, it must in no way deprive the host municipalities of the responsibility to provide the students with the necessary health services. So I am very pleased with the positive attitude that the Committee also has in the setting, to the health care of the student community, but it is important that we do not, through it, deprive the municipalities of the statutory responsibility they have to provide the student population with a good health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3652	Now, Höie confirms what is agreed in the committee, namely that it is an effect that the mental health service is good. The reason why that's good is because it's special for students. Psychologists and health professionals work a lot with students, who have a good knowledge of everyday life, life and challenges that are special to students – as we agree on – because they are in a special way of life. It is strange – if you agree that an action is effective and if you see that there is a rapid intervention prevention measure – that you do not want to bet on it. Why does the Minister of Health think that it is a contradiction to bet on the municipal mental health service and to bet on a mental health service in the direction of the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3659	I don't think there's any contradiction, but I'm probably more doubtful that there's evidence that it's because the offer is in student relations, that it has such a great effect. It's probably so much because it's an available offer. I believe it is essential that we ensure that the population has an easily accessible offer, one that avoids unnecessary waiting, even when one has mental health challenges. That's why we're so clear on the part of both the government and the Christian People's Party and the Left, that we have to have a completely different promise for the supply of mental health in the municipalities than we've seen in recent years. It is of course very good the offer that is given in the interaction as well. There is no contradiction between these offers, but I think that a more in-depth analysis of the success will show that it is not least about availability as well. I also want that availability to work to provide the rest of the population, and the municipalities of course also have a responsibility for the health services provided by the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3666	I agree with the Minister of Health that accessibility is important. That's why, in our alternative state budget, we're proposing 10 million. DKK in particular for mental health care and 5 million. for the prevention of students at institutions. It says the students themselves that they can cut the waiting time for a psychologist from three months, at some interactions today, to one to two weeks. Does the Minister of Health think that standing in a public health queue when you have an exam week after, and getting an hour and treatment one month after exam, is sufficient help?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3673	No, we want to reduce the waiting time to get help in the mental health service, and therefore we also want to build up the offer in the municipalities. It is also one of the reasons why the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on a significant commitment – much more than the previous government did – to build up the supply of mental health locally. In addition, I will provide a big message about the primary health services, where we include: shall reverse the professionally neutral municipal health and care services law and impose a legal requirement on mental health services in municipalities. At the same time, we have agreed to establish our own youth health strategy, where we are really going to promote the importance of having a youth education throughout the healthcare system, including a good health service for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3680	In a new study, four out of ten people taking abortion use contraception. That's a pretty high number. I have asked a written question to the Council of State, where he answers that he does not consider it necessary to have a specific financial system for young adult women for the purpose of subsidising long-term prevention, which is expensive in purchases: over NOK 1000. My question is, does the Council not see that this is a problem? When the Council of State does not want to do anything with this difference in price: what is the government's strategy when it comes to the problem that this investigation shows, that closer to half of those who are taking abortion today, is using contraception?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3687	As the representative Toppe is aware, this question contains a little different elements. The first is what I also said in the answer to the written question, and which I now have to take into account the memory, namely that the annual cost will be about 400 kroner for women in that age group, 19–25 years. In a Norwegian context, it cannot be seen as a very high amount, and it is always a priority question of what we are going to spend health resources on. This is about spending so much money – up to 70 million. kr, I think – to give free contraception to a group that is basically completely healthy and fertile. Another question concerns the use of other types of contraceptives, such as: condom. I get worried if we continue to put up with a policy that means that it is always the responsibility of the ladies and girls to provide prevention, because then we also lose the fight against e.g.. sex diseases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3694	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3699	At risk of encountering harassment: the representative from the Right expressed that there were small differences. I agree that there are small differences in the analysis, and I fully agree with the representative that students are also different people, even though they are in a special life situation. But that was not the point of their own health service. It's precisely because they're in a special way of life that it's their health care, students' health care -- which is actually the closest they get to primary care when they're away from where they usually set their own, where they've grown up -- they know their own primary care. The amazing thing about students’ mental health services is that it’s early – we agree that it is so important to prevent longer courses of disease, to help the individual quickly and to contribute to more mastering. So I do not agree that there are small differences in the measure we propose in our alternative state budget, because it can cut the waiting time from three months to one–two weeks in the various locations. It can be crucial before exams, when you really need help. Then it became a mantra during the last period, towards the big shot, that we should vote for what we're for, and against what we're against. If it was on the background of setting up a new government, it is especially true that you are voting against your own proposals. If it is true that the students get part of the shopping message about primary care, I am very pleased. I would then like to commend the Minister of Health and Health for investigating the possibility of students getting more qualifications. But it is actually that we can act even if there is a strategy in 2016 on youth health. We also agree that is very good. It's great that the new government wants that, we want that, but we're excited to see what's actually in that strategy. But it can't be that we're waiting for a year and a half until there's a strategy – and maybe two years if it's exposed – we actually have to act. And when the figures show that one in five students have serious mental health problems, it goes without saying that it's socio-economically very profitable to make sure that more students master their everyday life, and that more students get through. So to the very last point, I want to take up the minority proposals from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, SV and the Center Party. There's an incubator there. So it's not a proposal from four parties, it's a proposal from three parties – it's just the centre party that's grown so big on the polls that we thought it was cool to mention them twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3709	The representative of Audun Otterstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3712	It's getting closer to the end of a long day, but when the representative Otterstad in the debate here says we can't wait for a youth health strategy, we have to look back eight years, at what the red-green didn't do, related to student health. Then we can afford to wait for a primary care message, because there is a bit of the central debate here – it is primary care responsibility, where municipalities have a statutory obligation to make an offer today. Then we see that student relationships operate an efficient and good health and welfare service, funded by the students' own holiday fee. The question is whether we can open up so that they can operate something more. That is what we want to include in the primary care notification and the debate there. As far as the fixed debate is concerned, it is not necessarily the case that the principle of having two definites is the right thing to do. It's about increasing medical capacity, and it's also about financing it. Sex and community centres have medical services, for example, so it can be a way to strengthen the provision of medical services for students. Another way is to fund all local medical centres, such as Sagene Stadtdel has in Oslo – they have a general medical capacity beyond fixed capacity, which may also be a better option. The point must be that there are doctors who can work with juvenile health, and we don't have that in particular today. Sex and Societal are probably the closest we have today. Now the Working Party becomes a little bit of a system party, which doesn't see the differences and differences because student health is very different. In some places health businesses are in and out funding, while in others, for example: in Gjøvik, who has always been a worker party director, we have a health station that is open on Tuesday evening from. 5:00 to 5:00 p.m. - Twenty. There we have 1 000 students in high school, we have 1 000 students in a vocational school, for which the municipality is responsible, for which no county councils are involved in financing, and then we have 3 500 students who are in that municipality, who don't get a very good offer either. They have two nurses employed in Student Cooperation in Oppland. It is a very different health service from what student relations in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger offer. This is why there is every reason to work with both organisation, capacity and funding, and also with a division of tasks between primary health services and student relationships in the continuation here. Here we have a good dialogue with the government parties, and we feel that there is good reason to wait for the primary health message and other messages to get a better division of tasks and funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3723	It's quite touching to see how busy the Workers' Party is now. I have participated in debates in Velferdstinget in Oslo and Akershus, I have spoken to students. Many of the students say that the challenges they face as students are not new to them. They wanted a more accessible school health service, especially the boys say they want a more accessible school health service throughout the school cycle. That's why it's important to note that from the 180 million. kr as the red-green government has invested in school health and health station services, so the government parties – together with the Left and Christian People's Party – have increased this amount to 450 million. kr in 2015. There is a strong commitment to what may be the most important thing for many children, young people, young adults and students. There is no radical change as this SHoT study from 2014 shows, it shows a gradual change, so although the red-greens did not give priority to bet on this in their reign, they were not entirely unaware of the challenges that children, young people and students faced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3732	It becomes kind of strange to me when the games are going to come up here and be high and dark across. It will be difficult if we talk about the last eight years in a political case. But that's okay for me, we can talk about when the Workers' Party put in government, when we gave the municipalities huge grants, over 60 billion. kr more. We had a stepping-up plan in the mental health service in the municipalities. Over 10,000 annual works were employed in the field of mental health protection in the municipalities. The plan, the expansion and the solutions we're talking about here – yes, we've built it out. We tried to hire more people in the school health service with $180 million. kr, but we've seen and evaluated. And what was it that we saw? Well, that's right, as the representative Wilhelmsen Troeen says, that only 50 pst. spent the money on what they really were going to do. It had to be stronger, stronger lye than this government was willing to use in terms of the spaces. We believe that this also needs to be done within the mental health service, so we add extra money and earmark them for the school health service. There is no contradiction in that – I think the representative, Kjeseth, also agrees – to bet on the school health service or to grant as little as 10 million. Dr to the mental health service for students, to get psychologists enough, to get health professionals enough, to cut the queue so that more people get through the exam. That's what this is all about. Then we can take a coffee and discuss the last eight years in the red-green period, and we can discuss the possibility of part-time sick leave for students, we can discuss student loans, we can discuss student housing, and we can discuss how to make life better. The point here is now that in an attempt to praise the government in order to come up with a youth strategy, I also say that we cannot stop. This commitment to mental health, I feel, is also with the committee leader, with the health minister – I experience it in the whole room – so that it would be so controversial to say that we can't stop, that we have to implement measures, that I have a little trouble understanding. Then we point to a concrete measure. I think this was really great. The left should be commended if the good dialogue has led to the Minister of Health using parts of the primary care message for students and young adults, but the good dialogue should perhaps also be before a Document 8 proposal is promoted. But it has to be up to the left to evaluate, I won't put anything more into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3741	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3752	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3760	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Mr Aasrud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is requesting that everyone who organises boxing matches in Norway has ratified the WADA Code and thus has a code approved by WADA.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3793	The President assumes that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3806	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3820	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3868	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose a legal secret in order to enable the police to benefit from discretion in order to recognise credible police statements from third countries outside the EEA territory as a basis for the construction of driving seats before the four-year butide requirement has been met.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose language and quality requirements for drivers in passenger transport that could improve the safety of drivers and passengers’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3881	The Labour Party and the Centre have announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3986	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e3998	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to vote against also here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e4011	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e4447	The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left are behind the vote, and the Socialist Left Party has announced support for the vote. The Right Party and the Advance Party want to vote against. The voting boards showed that 51 votes were cast in favour and 47 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.41.33]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e4456	I pressed like that, but it didn't help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e4461	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e4688	The working party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left are behind the setting. The Socialist Left Party has announced its support for the adjustment. The Progress Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e7387	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a plan to implement the Patient Rights Directive as described in Prop. [[2012-2013]] 118 L The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the proposal. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e7410	Proposal No. 1, which we have voted on, had the support of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. That proposal fell. Then it's up to those parties to know how to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e7413	The working party will vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e7418	The working party then wants to vote against the setting. The Left has announced support for the suspension, and the President now expects the Right and the Advance Party to support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e7437	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Audun Otterstad, on behalf of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 4, from Kjersti Toppe on behalf of the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a scheme to subsidise long-term prevention methods for young people aged between 20 and 24’. The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e7465	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3 from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the role of the council to be played by students and for the possibility to have two judges at the same time, in notification to the Grand Duchy of primary health.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The government asks the government to assess the need for a grant scheme so that municipalities with higher education institutions or universities have a sufficient number of permanent staff.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government is asking the government to propose earmarked funds for mental health professionals in the interactions of the revised National Budget for 2015. These appropriations shall be monitored in the State budget for 2016 as a fixed item.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-16.ana.ud1018e7512	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? Nobody does. - The meeting's been cancelled.
