ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e117	The representative Ingebjørg Amanda Vosskensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 1 and 13 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e149	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers for each group and up to six lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e158	I want to pink the government to carry on and build on much of the policy of the Stoltenberg II government. We doubled the admission of police students to 720 this year, and we made sure of funds for the addition of these. It has the government maintained, just like us. Another example that builds on the work of Stoltenberg II is the money to bring down the response time for helicopter preparedness from the Defense. We made sure to have helicopter standby in Bardufoss and Rygge, but left the basis to reduce the response time to one hour, as it is now done. In some areas, however, the draft budget to the government lacks a holistic approach. Justifiably, one more means of adding lawyers, but the police force is not getting any more money for operation. The mechanism that some in the police have already warned against is that this is being tried to save by cutting into civil positions. According to the Labour Party's view, it is not a desirable development. Civil settings need one to support during the police work. Here we will follow closely. In other areas, the government lacks long-term plans. An example of this is that there are no means to build prisons in Norway — not a single penny. Unless it announces the capacity of criminal services asking for extra funds, there will be no planning or construction start in the near future. It is difficult to interpret this as anything other than that the Minister of Justice lost in the Budget Conference against his colleagues. In that case, he may at least have a certain acceptance too far to present his plans for criminal services as offensive, even if they are proven not to be. On the other hand, there is money in 41 new places in prison, and I would like to remind you that Stoltenberg II provided 750 accommodations in eight years. That's approximately equal to that. 93 places per year on average. The initiative for Minister of Justice Anundsen is therefore less than half the size of the stake for Storberget. Other major issues are also pushed ahead of the Minister of Justice, whether they be emergency services, aid laws or national operational centres. The lack of action is unfortunate, but the newly won understanding of the importance of distributions that the particular Progress Party has received in government is a wax training it must be allowed to rejoice over. But there's a question about whether the Progress Party on the Biggest is equally happy. Let me draw up some important distinctions between the Labour Party and the Right-front party government. The only thing is that we're strengthening the prevention. With our draft budget, Kommune-Noreg would have had 3.4 billion. kr more than the government has proposed. It is in the municipalities that prevention takes place. That's where the kids can be caught, that's where the judges will live their lives after the end of their atonement. By preventing more repairing a smaller one. We have also proposed a doubling of the funds for cooperation between police and local authorities. Unfortunately, there will be a vote by the government party today. It is particularly disappointing because we agree that there is a need to prevent extremism and radicalisation. The government has presented an action plan on which there is broad political agreement, but one that lacks the political pressure, the economic musculoskeletals, to actually tackle prevention where there is a need to address it locally. The second is that the Labour Party focuses on the content of the soning, not only on the number of prisons. From today's government there are no plans on the table for alternative reconciliation. On the contrary, for example: The fine service cut heavily, which could have freed 45 places overnight, and one would have avoided people who have not paid the penalty, sons in prison along with people who have committed more serious crimes. In addition, in our alternative budget, we have invested 40 new members of the criminal service. It has an impact on both capacity and quality. One day earlier, both yours and my neighbor will be judged. Then the reasoning and the starting point must be that they are less criminal when they come out of prison than they were when they went into prison. We are concerned that the bet on content in the soning will not matter. The third example of the difference between the Right and the Progress Party and the Labour Party is that we give priority to the fight against violence in close relations. One hundred million. kr until babysitting becomes ear-marked. In the government's original draft budget, there was not a single penny specifically set against the government in close relations, and the Minister of Justice has also received criticism from the stakeholder organisations to be invisible in this field. All in all, we're dealing with a good budget, with no big visions, no emphasis on soundness, no long-term plans. This is how the first financial year of the blue government has gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e186	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e189	I want to begin by commending the representative for the commitment she has shown around culture and leadership in the police. It's an engagement I think more in the hall strongly share. There are two ways to approach that discussion. One is to have a general approach and to use clichés you can find in almost every textbook on management. The second thing is to be concrete. So my question to the representative is whether she can be concrete: what does the Workers' Party think is good management and culture in the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e196	This is a question I'm very happy to get, because this is something I'm very busy with, and that I'm busy also going to work well with in the police reform, which the government is going to put forward. The previous government is working on it, among other things. as follows: A fund for work on change programmes — how to work on change management in such a large and comprehensive establishment as the police task is. One also contributed to clarifying roles and responsibilities by clarifying the instructions of the Police Directorate and the Police Director. There are ways to work with this. I expect that the police reform will also bring about that kind of clarification of roles and responsibilities. It worries me, for example. that, when the Police Directorate is about to set up a situation centre, the Council of State says that they should be able to review operational decisions locally. It's a way of creating ambiguity about roles and responsibilities, and it's weak when it's about culture and leadership, because it doesn't make it clear what expectations you have of what institutions and agencies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e203	Let me first thank the Chairman of the Committee for a thorough review of the priorities of the Workers' Party. Politics is about priority. Therefore, it is good that clear dividing lines show where the different stands, although the committee leader pointed out that it was a continuation of the policies of the previous government that led to this. I also think that there is respect for being involved in prevention, you are concerned with the content of the compensation, and you are not least concerned with children's homes. All this is for the Workers' Party. I also see that the draft budget proposes to earmark 100 million. D to the children's houses, which are taken from the free resources of the police. In this context, my question is as follows: What kind of tasks, which are mostly put within the free resources today, is what the Workers' Party believes the police should give priority to prioritizing children's homes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e210	The representative of Ellingsen is quite right in saying that politics is about priority. For the Labour Party, it has been important to raise the tab high and to be a clear and clear voice when it comes to power in close relationships, and especially to power against children. When it comes to choosing against children, one knows that the kids themselves are not always able to communicate what has happened, being drivers because there is a click on this field. Then we think it's a political responsibility to make sure that the pressure is there. One has also seen the need for political attention to this, for historically, the power of close relations has been seen as a housewreck, which concerns only the family within the four walls of the house. It's about, for example. It is also obvious to the police that this is a priority, a political and economic priority. There is something that I have experienced in the police too, both among police officers and among the police's trustees, that they are pleased that we are clear that this should be prioritised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e215	I would also like to begin by commending the representative, Mr Tajik, for a good report and not least for a good cooperation this year that has gone by. A field in which we cooperate well is especially violence in close relationships, where I feel that the Workers' Party has been very offensive and contributes to our common good policies in this room. Another field that is very important to the Christian People's Party is the fight against human trafficking. I record in the notes that the Workers' Party only has a reluctance – what they write about is the previous action plan, and there may be criticism that there has not yet been a new one. I share that criticism, and I am pleased that a new action plan will now be in place. But in the agreement, the Christian People's Party received a 15-million mark. kr additional and clear designation for the establishment of similar investigation teams to the exit group in Hordaland, which has received half of the trafficking in human beings so far. Why hasn't the Workers' Party been involved in the offensive campaign, and hasn't the Workers' Party thought of a more offensive effort to combat today's slavery?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e222	I want to give the representative from the Christian People's Party the honor that he was able here to correct the course that the Right Party and the Advance Party had set up with his budget, and that he was also able to invest these kinds of funds in the fight against trafficking in human beings. I support the Christian People's Party so much in the work that the Labour Party will vote for the funds. It's important to us that this work continues. We are therefore not pleased with the signals made by the Council of State here when it comes to a new action plan against trafficking in human beings, because the previous one is now due in 2014. One needs a new one to keep your press up. It also tells the police that the previous action plan helped them. At least the message we have received is that there will be an action plan, but one does not know exactly what time it, possibly, will come. I hope that the Christian People's Party and the Labour Party can be drivers of law to the Minister of Justice, so that this action plan can quickly be put in place and contain actions that are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e227	Does the representative of Hadia Tajik wish to address the Labour Party's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e231	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e236	The representative of Hadia Tajik has taken up the suggestions she referred to. This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e241	The main direction in the budget for next year is that the government is doing important tasks today and equips Norway for the future. This means that the budget places particular emphasis on knowledge, transport, health, police and preparedness. Just as society is changing constantly, so is crime. We see that registered crime is reduced, while complex, organized, technological and economic crime is growing. With this budget for justice, the government, in close cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, provides an offensive and sound basis for meeting these challenges. The appointment of the police with 350 new posts is a massive boost. It will significantly strengthen the police's ability to prevent and combat crime, and it will facilitate the faster employment of graduates from the Police College. Together with 68 new positions of the prosecution authority in the police and of the higher prosecution authority, this is a major increase in the capacity of the police and prosecution authority to investigate and rectify criminal offences. This shows the government's power of action, and it creates secure communities. The budget strengthens the courts. We're continuing a recruitment from the current year. In addition, we strengthen our competence and modernise the procedures for the implementation of new criminal law. In Bergen and Stavanger, impact studies on the construction of new dishware were started. The government inherited a reconciliation queue from the red-green ones. It is important to make the waiting time from judgment to acquittal as short as possible, so that the rehabilitation of the convicted person can begin. This is why the government is taking several measures to reduce the pay queue. 41 new settlement sites are established within existing walls, and the government is further working on the possibility of renting vacant settlement facilities in the Netherlands, as a short-term measure. In addition, the government submits a communication to the Stortinge on the capacity of criminal services. This is an important step towards the development of new prisons in this country. The government also inherited an enormous maintenance of the building mass in the criminal care of its predecessors. This slowed down sharply under the red-greens. The last estimate shows that it's between 3.3 billion. and 4,4 billion kr i lagp. In this way, with our grips, we maintain the balance in the criminal case chain. Both the police, the courts and criminal justice are strengthened in next year's budget. One of the most important things is the efforts to prevent violence in close relationships — in order to prevent it. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to cooperate across several disciplines. In addition to the Justice budget, it is therefore also important to emphasise that the government allocates an additional 15 million. In order to strengthen the offer to families with high levels of conflict and to families at risk of violence, it is important not least to note that a 200 million increase in health stations and school health services is being carried out. kr in 2015. In total, there is a massive rise in the prevention of violence against children and violence in close relationships. The Gjørv Commission and the police analysis tell us that the police are not organized to meet tomorrow's crime challenges. The government is in the final work on a near-police reform. We want to restructure the police to create a powerful and modern organisation that will be even better to prevent and combat crime. It's now going to be set at 150 million. kr to this reform work for next year. It is with great expectation that we from the Right – and the government parties – look forward to the cooperation on the new police reform here in Stortinget. To the right, we believe that we have a deep obligation to take over the reality picture of the Gjørv Commission and the Police Analysis give us about the need for reform. It is important to meet the crime challenge and social development in a way that creates a safer country. It lays the basis for this budget, and I look forward to both the debate today and, not least, the results that will come in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e267	We in the Committee on Legal Affairs say that waiting times for children's homes have to go down, and I record that figures from in the fall indicate that waiting times may be coming down, which is positive. I look forward to seeing the 2014 annual average, which will answer whether the government has achieved its goal. What is the goal, however, is somewhat uncertain. In the legal proposition, which we are discussing today, the government writes that they should go down to 30 days in wait for the verdicts of children, which I believe are annual averages, by 2014. In the ‘Good Childhood’ action plan, which came one month after the budget, the target was 40 days before 2014. What I'm curious about is whether the representative can respond specifically to what is the reason why a person has reduced ambitions to reduce waiting times from 30 to 40 days from October to November?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e274	I thank you for the question. It gives me the opportunity to clarify that it is gratifying that the waiting time for a court hearing at the children's houses is going down. It's lower than under the red-green, and we have a goal of getting it down to 20 pst. By October this year, the waiting time is 36 days, and the goal is to reach the statutory waiting time of 20 days. It is clear from the budgetary observations, and that is what we are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e279	The Office for the Compensation of Victims makes a great and important effort for victims of violence, and it is of course important that the proceedings there are speedy and effective, so that people can explain the matter as quickly as possible. However, with the arrangement from the government, and with the draft government budget for 2015, the office – as they say – will have to reduce sharply in its activities over the next few years, which will lead to an increase in the balances, and that people who are victims of violence will have to wait longer to get answers to the case. What my representative, Werp, will be the consequence of the cut that he himself and the government propose, in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e286	The increase that the Victim Compensation Office received after 22 July 2011, we were all here in the Stortinget. So it was a total collapse – including the Center Party – that at that time gave a very clear signal that it was a one-time promise to take away the rise of things, which came as a result of the terrorist action. We have all noticed the signals that the office has given behind, when you saw the budget for next year. We believe that, with the comments and leads contained in the budgetary agreement between the cooperation parties, we have made it possible for the office to carry out its important job and continue it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e291	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e294	With the budget we are discussing here today, the justice sector has finally received the attention it deserves. The government and government parties, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, are well-informed to take back security, because we are strengthening the police, the criminal services and the courts. In a number of areas in recent years, delays and queues have accumulated, and employees in the sector have not felt that the problems they have had with the lack of budgetary appropriations have been taken seriously. The average police lawyer had over 80 pending cases at the turn of the government. This posed a challenge to legal certainty and led to a number of consequential problems in the criminal justice chain. It is worrying that this crucial element in the criminal chain has been neglected for a long time. This has not been without consequences. Police lawyers have stopped due to a massive workload, and reports have remained for months and years. This has not only been a heavy and unnecessary burden on the victims, but it has also provided a penalty discount for gross crime. It is well known that the courts condemn milder penalties where the police have been slow to investigate. I believe this has been a major problem for the rule of law. It is not without reason that the chief of police lawyers has referred to this budget as the judicial budget of the time, and I am pleased that the government is proposing to strengthen the prosecution authority with a total of 69 posts in the budget for next year. This will be an extremely important measure for both the victims and the whole of the criminal justice chain. The police have generally been very pleased with the government's historic budget for justice. On 8 October this year, the daily newspaper announced a hallelujah vote among the country's police officers when the Minister of Justice presented the draft budget of the Right-wing-Fremskrit party government. And that's not without reason: 350 fresh police posts – in addition to what's at the bottom – make it possible to employ as many people as they leave the Police College. In addition, 150 million are granted. SEK 70 million for improvements in the police force. SEK to PST, 30 million. kr to ID equipment and a number of other important measures in this Justice budget. The police are strongly strengthened, and most people will step by step notice that we have received a new and powerful government that prioritises the security of the streets. A particularly challenging area for police has been between 7 000 and perhaps as many as 20 000 illegal immigrants who walk freely in Oslo streets. Of course, in order to identify these, it is important that the government has granted 30 million. kr to ID equipment, but it is equally important that these persons are actually apprehended and sent out. That is why I am pleased that the government is planning to set up a whole 32 new posts in an operational section of the Foreign Service in Oslo. These are the police that detect, investigate and attack illegal immigrants in the capital, especially linked to the open drug environment. The entire legitimacy of immigration policy and the institution of asylum is linked to the fact that people cannot avoid posting, and it is important that the Right Party government has ensured that the fight against illegal immigrants is finally taken seriously. The challenges that this government took over in the field of justice are massive, unlike what today's chairman of the Justice Committee is trying to tell us. But perhaps the greatest failure of the red-green government is in the field of criminal law. We took over a big line. It is therefore essential that the Right-Fremskrit party government has addressed these problems immediately. For us, it is simply unacceptable that people in the police department should be imprisoned, released directly into the street because there are no custody areas. Already in the current year, we have been able to release 88 detention centres, and we are continuing this effort by building 41 new places in the coming years. In a few days we will also be submitting a criminal health report. I also note that in certain debates the Workers' Party has called the construction of prison sites immature, and that they criticize the government for the absolutely necessary settlement agreement that this government wants to put in place with the Netherlands. Until the Workers' Party launches a credible alternative to solving the capacity problems of criminal services, it is difficult to take such criticism seriously. When one third of prisoners in Norwegian prisons are foreign criminals, it becomes paradoxical to criticize the government for wanting more people to zone abroad. Finally, I note that most of the government's budget for justice is unanimously adopted in this Chamber today, and there are virtually no points that create noise from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e313	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e317	If I listened right now, the representative Leirstein said that the challenges were massive in the justice sector after eight years of red-green governance. First of all, Leirstein cannot then have got what we've been doing in this period has been the signal from, among other things. The leader of the Police Union, who indicated a historic uplift for the police and much of what we did. But what is striking about the claim is that one first shows that there are massive challenges, and then tell one afterwards that 41 new prison sites will be created next year – as if there were massive challenges to be solved. It'll be striking. I want to know what happens specifically when it comes to prison. There's nothing in the budget for next year. When does Leirstein think a new prison in Norway will be finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e324	1 300 people in prison queues are part of the legacy of this government when we took over the government after the election – 1 300 people, and the queues increased. The only solution from the previous government was that allegedly a great deal of work had been started to get a prison in Agder. Well, that project had come very short. We already have well over 100 new prison places in place after having managed for over a year. In addition, we are working on a reconciliation agreement with the Netherlands, which can provide us with a few hundred seats, and in addition, new prisons are to be built. If the representative Jenny Klinge waits for approx. One week, she will get answers from the government on how we've been going to solve the criminal justice challenges with a separate message, which the previous government did not care about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e329	The representative Ulf Leirstein has been involved in the public debate for a long time, with clear messages and a sharp tongue. Only in his post today does he use many adjectives and expressions, such as security back, massive bet, hallelujah mood, legal certainty in danger, etc. etc. He also showed here in connection with the question from Jenny Klinge about this with a reconciliation queue. I would like to remind the representative that the previous government halved the reconciliation queue. It could be nice to see what this government can do in this area. I have noticed the statement that it will be over that the police officers make their own rules and are small kings, and I have noticed many questions and suggestions that the representative has made, among other things. guarantee of employment for students, sound and image recordings in all Norwegian courts, worthy compensation for victims of violence. How many of these proposals have been implemented by the representative at his or her own State Council and in his or her own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e336	Firstly, this representative is getting a lot more impact today than with the previous government. In the previous government I got zero throughput. Now I have the joy of getting a lot of penetration. I thought it was nice to see that the Minister of Justice made sure that we now set up a cold case group, where we can deal with issues that the police have not previously prioritised. Now we're doing it. Then we are in a number of areas – as requested by the representative of the Workers' Party – in the process of delivering. This is the Justice Budget of the Time, a historic budget for justice, and the ‘hallelujah vote among the police’ is not something I invented; it was something VG chose to write as a subtitle on its case when the Minister of Justice visited the police officers and presented the Justice Budget. In area by area we deliver. We now come up with a criminal health report to do something about the major challenges we face in the field of prison, and then I think the representative of the Workers' Party will also see that this representative has a significant impact on things that have been said and meant over the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e347	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e350	Since none of my colleagues have said that, I will use the words of Jon Lilletun: A good budget has improved. I would like to thank the Committee, not least my colleagues in the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, for their very good cooperation on a good budget. The Christian People's Party cannot be ashamed that the police lawyers and the police are creating a hallelujah mood because of the budget. We can be proud of that. It's about security, it's about safe growth, and it's about a safe society. That's why we're proud of a budget that gives money to 350 new police posts. We are also pleased that the Minister of Justice and the Government have so clearly chosen to give priority to 50 new prosecutors and 18 posts in the higher prosecution authority. We think that's important. Then we're glad that it's an appeal to the courts, and that through the negotiations we've also got a cash out of a KVU for Stavanger thinghouse. At the same time, it is important to stress that the growth that has taken place in the courts must continue. As far as criminal law is concerned, we are pleased with the new places that have arrived this year, and also with the 80 million. NOK set aside for the next year to 41 new places. It's important. I look forward very much to the few days we have left to wait, not until Christmas, but until the police report comes. It will be an important matter, where the Storting will finally be able to take the priority debate and see the whole country as a whole and see what capacity we need to meet future needs. That's why I like those signals. In the negotiations and the conciliation between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, I am particularly proud to have had a positive impact on the means of increasing the fight against trafficking in human beings. There shall be five special groups, investigators and lawyers, who shall give priority to working specifically in the field of human traffickers. Since 2004, there have been 30 human trafficking judges. 15 of those sentences have been in Bergen, and we know that it's been a priority work with the Exit group. Eleven of those sentences have been indebted to children, and five of those cases have been in Bergen again. It shows what it can mean if we succeed in copying some of the good work you've seen in Hordaland. We've seen the crime of work, the Lime case, and how serious it is actually with black work, social dumping, that very quickly borders human trafficking. We know that there are sex slaves, we know that there are children. The peace prize this year actually went to one of the same things, the fight for children's rights, the fight against child slavery or child labour, and I think the budget that lies here answers well. Also in the case of Statens Barnehus, we have received a pass. The working party writes that they're proud of the 60 million. NOK that they wanted for 2014, and now we say clearly that it is 90 million. kr for 2015. There are resources that are needed, because there has been a large increase in the number of interrogations. It is important that we strengthen our capacity. And we have to have the waiting time down considering how long it will take before the court hearing is conducted. It is to strengthen legal certainty. We also have a job to do to ensure that several of the cases end in a conviction. A childhood that is destroyed by the fact that one does not discover it, a liver in a relationship where one can be subjected to violence and abuse, is something we cannot be aware of. That is why I am pleased with the efforts we are making here to combat violence in close relationships. The size has also taken important decisions in relation to children’s homes. That is why we are eagerly awaiting a new regulation, which must come quickly, and also for several measures. Children’s homes are not the same as the clog, they ensure a good follow-up to the children and can conduct the hearings, but the police need to make greater efforts to carry out the hearings quickly. I am pleased with the common wording that we have there, and I look forward to reducing the waiting time for court hearings and reaching the target of the 14-day deadline for sexual assault, and you should get under it both for violence and for sexual assault. We are also pleased that we have received good wording on the Office for the Compensation of Victims. We were somewhat worried, so we added more money for 2015. However, the Committee concludes that the government must follow this closely and possibly come back to revision if more is needed, but promised that the 10 million. kr which was actually intended to cut in 2016, not to be cut anyway, creates predictability for the Office for the Compensation of Victims. We're happy to get back in at 10.3 million. kr to measures for incoming EEA citizens, but it was only to be lacking. After an agreement has now been reached between the government parties and the Central Party on the prohibition of begging, there should be no need to follow up social measures for those who are coming but cannot beg. In the end, I would just like to point out that we are satisfied with the clear commitment we have to voluntary organisations, to legal aid measures, to criminal services, to violence in close relations and also to action in the field of human trafficking. We believe that non-governmental organisations can contribute to an important job, and that is why we are pleased that we are raising the appropriations for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e376	In the value basis of the Christian People's Party, the next love is described: ‘It includes even those we might perceive as our enemies, and it requires active action.’ It is described as a basic attitude with which to meet all people, including those with whom we must be able to perceive as our enemies. The signals of the Progress Party on the Stortinget are part of the criminal policy, going in a slightly different direction, in my opinion. The representatives of Tybring-Gjedde and Sandberg have stated that the content of prisons must get worse – Norway cannot be the best in the class. Today, we are dealing with a budget that is becoming very challenging for the rehabilitation of prisoners. I expect the representative and the Christian People's Party to give the prisoners a new chance, and to include them in their next love. I wonder: can the representative, Ropstad, guarantee that the budget support of the Christian People's Party for the Progress Party will result in increased content in prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e390	At least I can take a story about solidarity versus close love – because it's important to me. Nest love is something that extends far beyond one's own group, while I perceive solidarity as something that really just accommodates ourselves and those within. Next love is boundless, and therefore it is right, as the representative says, that we should have an extra responsibility for those who have fallen outside – those who have done something wrong with us. But next love doesn't mean to me that you just have to forgive and say that everything is okay. They have to face their punishment, and therefore good capacity in prisons is important, and therefore good content is important. In my post I said that I was satisfied with the strengthening of criminal care. But I insisted that we finally get the criminal health report, because I think it's important. I'm concerned about the content of criminal care – just as I was under the red-green – because we haven't managed to strengthen rehabilitation well enough. We could say that rehabilitation is good compared to other countries, but we have a long way to go. And therefore I can promise the representative Henriksen that the voices of the Christian People's Party and the comments of the Christian People's Party in connection with the message will go to lift that bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e397	Now it is not long before we – either before Christmas or after Christmas – have presented a police reform from the government that we are going to deal with here in Stortinget. We're all excited about that. I registered that the Christian People's Party is not involved in the request for the work on this police reform to be submitted to the Stortinget. They themselves – as I understand it – have said that they have chosen not to be at the end because of fear of the near police. The Central Party and the Christian People's Party are occupied by the local police and by having police throughout the country. My question is whether the representative Ropstad understands that the great majority that is now, with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, is problematic in putting in place a police reform that takes care of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e406	When you have a minority government, it's basically how the government prepares the cases. Then they come to the Storting, and then we treat them there. Police reform may be one of the most important issues to be addressed by the Stortinget — at least by the Judicial Committee. That is why the Christian People's Party and the Left felt it was important to accept the invitation we received from the Minister of Justice to participate in and design it. But when we were going to put all or at least many of the premises ready for the Storting, it was important for the Christian People's Party to get an approximation of what we thought was most important. We don't have the same investigative device that the government has, so we recorded and had a very good and constructive dialogue about what was important for the Christian People's Party, and what was important for the other parties. That's why I'm sure that when the reform comes, I know well where the Christian People's Party stands, and I'm going to put a heavy effort on having a clear neighbourhood police force. But we didn't meet the requirements we had, so we think it would be better to take a thorough and good treatment in Stortinget. You get a hearing, and the Christian People's Party together with the rest of the Stortinget can hopefully secure a broad majority for a very important reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e416	I want to begin by commending the Christian People's Party for the commitment and effort they put into the work of preventing violence against children and children's homes. In the last few years under the red-green government, the funds for the children's houses were ear-marked and clearly prioritised. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party in the committee's comments on the matter today called for a clearer prioritisation of this and so it also had as a clear issue in the budget negotiations. What I'm asking you is, the working party wants to pay 100 million dollars. kr to children's houses to ensure that the funds go to children's homes. Then the representative says in his post that they will allow 90 million. kr. Then my question becomes: how can the representative be sure that it is 90 million? kr to children's houses, as long as they are not eartaged?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e425	As the representative knows, the mention of children's homes has been a tradition in the state budgets, where one says that a certain number of millions are going to go to them, but at the same time the police districts themselves are getting the money and thus prioritizing them to the children's houses. That means that when the representative says they were earmarked in the last few years' budgets, that's not right. For example, in 2014 this was to be done. according to the notes of the Workers' Party, 60 million. kr. But the money was not earmarked. I've taken a discussion with myself and others in the games whether it's right to earmark the funds. It may be a good play, but it hasn't been like that before, and so I have great confidence and expectation that the funds that are involved here are 90 million. kr, actually goes to the children's houses. But as I was in my post: the children's houses are one thing, but it is also important to have capacity – interrogation rooms, equipment, etc. The main emphasis, I think, is that we must now focus on the efforts of the police, so that they have the means and people and can carry out the hearings and prioritize them quickly enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e434	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e437	We, who are working on politics from our position in the Justice Committee here at Stortinget, are constantly getting rid of difficult things, things that are touching, shocking or causing us to know off limits. In the meantime, we get the success stories, the things where, after all, things have arranged pretty well for people, even with a difficult starting point. Of course, even if the elected representatives have a superior responsibility, we cannot be held responsible for all the individual people around the country of Norway for their lives. But we can use the policies we pursue, at best, to lay the foundations for the most possible closure. Our goal is for young people to be safe and grow up without violence and abuse, for both women and men to be able to travel safely, for lawbreakers to be detected quickly, and for them to find their way on the right track through proper criminal response and good follow-up. In the justice sector, there is too much activity in 2015, from the courts to criminal justice. In the red-green government, we strongly invested in the police, and we see that the new government is following up on this. The arrest of the Central Party against the police in its alternative state budget is that we – in addition to what is underpinned by the government – propose a great deal of effort on the district police. $200 million. We are looking at this, are linked to concrete objectives of reducing the response time in the districts and strengthening the staffing of the county staff offices. Unfortunately, there have been several serious events in recent years that show that this is necessary. And we're going to allow over 40 million. D on the judicial budget for a greater commitment to the fight against economic crime and crime at work, 127 million. DKK in total, and over 8 million. kr to more options in the prosecution authority. The police are important to bet on, but it is also important to balance the criminal chain, that the courts have the capacity to avoid the cases that are coming, and that there are enough places for those who are convicted. It is said that no government is as good as she says she is, or as bad as the opposition says she is. We're going to take this with us, both when we're in government, and when we're in opposition. For the time being, I am part of the last group, the opposition, although hopefully it will not be any longer than 2017. I'm going to use the opportunity to show that I'm willing to see that the sitting government is doing something good, and for example, I want to draw out as positive, is the strengthening of the prosecution authority and the extra jurisdictional positions, and that they're continuing to bet on the police. What is unfortunately not positive is that, among other things. is cut in funds from the Victim Compensation Office, that there is no money to start the process of building new prisons, and that there is no money to increase the salary of lawyers before the public justice system. An increase of 5 dollars per hour in salary is close by being ridiculous, but there's nothing that can make sense of it. We need a system of free legal aid that works for the best of those who need the scheme, and legal certainty can be at stake in the worst case if the pay rate is too low. What the Senterpartie has seen at the payroll rate will mean an increase in line with wage and price growth. Another issue that we in the Center Party are concerned about is the equipment for audio and video recording in the courts. There we have seen money for pre-projecting, because the goal must be to get one going soon and put audio and video recording equipment in place in all Norwegian courts. This is an important measure to strengthen legal certainty. So the government and the cooperative have not seen money for new prisons. The center party has considered this to be so important that we've seen 100 million. In order to speed up the construction of new prisons, design tools have been developed. It is fine that the government will provide a few extra places in the existing prisons next year, but there is no doubt that we now have to start building a new one. Furthermore, there is reason to point out that the Land Change Courts must be able to implement a new law on land change. There's not enough nice words here; there's more money to make it possible. And we have to make it easy to recruit judges and engineers to the right to change. I would like to refer to our budgetary remarks for more on this and on other things we propose to allow money. It is probably not long before the Stortinget is allowed to make a case about a major police reform by the government. Through our work on the 2015 Justice Budget, we in the Centre Party have shown that we are busy with the local police and a lack of structure in the police case. I initially said that one of our goals is that people should be safe, and that lawbreakers should be discovered quickly. To that end, we need a well-functioning police force across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e472	The center part was known as part of the red-green project. When they completed the Halden Prison project, which was decided by the previous government — and that was it. Now that the Center Party is out of the same project, the Center Party will build prisons here and there – Ålesund, Mosjön and Agder. Can the representative Klinge say a little about what needs analyses are underlying these elections, and why the East is not included? As far as I've registered, it's actually where the reconciliation queue is the largest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e479	I thank you for the question. The red-green government got the reconciliation queue down from a huge reconciliation queue to a little one. Unfortunately it grew again, and there is something that we wear with today. Prison was a large project with many places, and it was important to get in place, but there is no doubt that there is more to it. That is why, precisely because we saw the need for more places, a capacity plan was presented within the criminal justice system, pointing to where new prisons should be built, and where one can expand with new places. There must now be a reason, of course – I suppose – for the plan that the government is about to submit. When it comes to Agder prison and what has been pointed out there, it is desperation that Agder is far ahead of getting a new prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e490	The centre party has also been part of the promise that has been made at the children's houses, and that is good. At the same time, there has been a discussion about more children's houses, and I see that the centre party is concerned that it should be considered to build more children's houses than the ten we have today. Now I have been in contact with several of the children's houses, the Children's Ombudsman, UNICEF and others who are occupied by the children's houses, who believe it is important, if necessary, to expand some interrogation rooms, where one can conduct interrogations, and that the most important thing now is to build capacity and competence in the existing children's homes. Why does the Center Party disagree with that assessment, and what makes one want to build more children's houses now? It would have been interesting to hear if the representative could elaborate on it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e495	Thank you for the question. It's important for me to make it clear that the Center Party does not mean that we should increase the number of children's homes a lot. It won't be about that. That's how this is special competence. It's a very important job that's being done, and it's important that it's made best possible by people who can do it. Then it's not necessarily that it makes sense to have it in all the states, but it might be up to you to build one or two or some more. What we have pointed out in the comments on the budget now is that we want to assess whether this might be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e502	Norway had a police reform in 2000, where 54 police districts became 27 districts. In the period since then, it is clear that police reform 2000 was not implemented in a way that created the desired results and the efficiency potential proposed by the Stortinget. Now we have both the Gjørv Commission report and the police analysis that tells us about challenges in police and preparedness. In the police analysis it is among other things. some basic problem areas which, in total, contribute to the failure of the police to carry out their core tasks as well as to the provision of resources. Police analysis concludes with fewer districts. How does the Central Party view the professional quality that the police themselves believe can be improved with fewer districts, if one is not to look at the district structure?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e509	The center party is quite clear that we're not against change. What we have said in particular is that we are willing to look at the police district structure, and have themselves suggested a county model, in practice 18 police districts, about that, as Agder is already merged. What we've been very busy about is keeping a strong police force in the whole country, a police force that's where people are, who know people, and who people know. Then it's not necessarily a problem to cut the number of police districts, but it's a problem if cut gets too big. We do not want any massive aggregation, and it is important to find a balanced reform that takes the police into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e517	Will the representative Klinge address the proposal of the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e520	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e525	Then the representative Jenny Klinge has taken up the proposal of the Central Party. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e530	The budget for justice presented by the government was marked by the fact that it was a bet area for the sitting government. However, in the alternative budget of the Left, we have seen a need to strengthen this area on some points, and some of this has been passed on to us in conjunction with the government. Firstly, it has been important for the Left that we continue to have different measures aimed at poor EEA citizens coming to Norway to try to get a better life for themselves and for their families. Now that the government has formed a majority with the Center Party on the possibility of local begging bans, and has announced that a national begging ban will come before the next summer, this offer is particularly important. As one of the richest countries in Europe, we must also contribute when we face poverty, and I am therefore pleased that there will be 10 million. kr for actions aimed at this group in the agreement with the government. And then we're happy that it's now set at 3.5 million. SEK to KVU about new warehouse in Stavanger. Today's warehouse does not in any way provide satisfactory work for the judges and lawyers who spend their days there, but this is also about security, and it's about capacity. On several occasions Stavanger has had to rent other premises because the proceedings are so large that there is no room in the ordinary courts in the warehouse. It's actually also an important urban development operation for Stavanger Municipality with a new thinghouse on Nytorget, and so it's a bonus that they can now start planning. We are also glad that 25 million have been put in place in the agreement. to strengthen the capacity of children's homes and to strengthen work on trafficking in human beings. But I would also like to mention some of the issues left in the alternative state budget, but for which we unfortunately did not get through in the conciliation. It is probably not only I who have received letters with five persons in the post office because the lawyers are dissatisfied with the increase in the salary, and I have to say that I understand that – as some people point to – it can be a danger to legal certainty when these important matters are put away to the most inexperienced lawyers, or we see that lawyers will no longer take such important matters. I also have to say that I understand the lawyers who point out that the lawyers they meet on the other side of the table – and who are also often paid by the public – have an hourly rate of several thousand kroner. So in the alternative budget of the left, we added an increase in the hourly rate of $20. I would also like to draw up a pilot project that we would like to implement. We'd put 10 million. kr to test alternative smooth cells in some police districts. We've discussed the state's use of smooth cells earlier this year, and we all know the verdict from the district court here in Oslo, which was quite clear in its speech, that today's practice is illegal. During the examination of the Left’s Document 8 proposals for smooth cells, all the parties expressed that this was something they considered important, and that at least they wanted to instill more smooth cells so that there could be some stimulus for the brain available — such as: a radio, a television or similar. We also know that many are put in the police arrest because this is the only place we can have them while they sleep out of their rush. But there could as well have been an offer to the medical officer as in the police arrest. Unfortunately, for the time being, we have not seen that the government has followed this up with enthusiasm, and if we were to allow ourselves a New Year's wish from this pulpit, it would have to be exactly that – that the Council of State is addressing the daily human rights violations committed by the state, as a result of our use of smooth cells.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e549	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e552	The former Minister of Justice of Left Odd Einar Dørum was similar to former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget of the Labour Party, who respected and felt a broad commitment to the work against violence in close relations. Now we have a government council that has received a lot of criticism for being invisible in the field – criticism from us, from the media as well as from interest groups. My question is, how can the Left be comfortable supporting this invisibility in the fight against violence in close relationships?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e559	First of all, I would like to thank you for your fine words. Our former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum had – and still has – a strong commitment to those who fall outside, those who are weak in our society. This is an engagement that not only he has, but that the whole left has. Well, that's what also permeates our efforts in the field of justice, that we want to catch those who fall outside, whether they're the ones who sit on the smooth cell for too long, or it's strengthening organizations that work against the criminal care system, like For Fanger's Family. I think one of our most important errands in cooperation with the government is to lift these groups. It's a job we're doing today, and we're going to continue with, with increasing strength, through the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e566	I only have a short question. It's due to the establishment of prisons, which go out on time. Now the government has proposed to rent prisons abroad. I would like to know what the representative from the Left might object to such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e571	We have major challenges with prison capacity in Norway today. One of the things that I took up in my post is that we have a large amount of excess on smooth cell, which is actually a human rights violation. The reason they're sitting there is because there's no prison capacity. That's why we're committed to increasing that capacity. This is why we are also concerned that prisons must be built in Norway. The government has announced that it will facilitate detention abroad. I believe there are many objections to it. It's about the possibility of prisoners returning to the Norwegian community, it's about the possibility of prisoners being visited by their relatives, it's about the follow-up they get in prison. But I think we have to set things up against each other, and human rights violations are the ones that for us are enthroned at the top of what we're going to do. Then we'll see if the government is able to find satisfactory solutions for those who are going to zone abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e578	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e581	Justice policy must prevent and fight crime, safeguard our national security and a number of other important tasks, and, fortunately, there are also many things in the justice policy that are widely agreed on. There were many important and positive things in the draft budget for the government and the same in the agreement that has now been made. I don't want to at least bring forward the systematic efforts on the police towards 2020, which, fortunately, is a very broad consensus in the Stortinget, and which I think will be followed up. But for one, justice policy is absolutely decisive for the whole of their freedom, their ability to live a good life for the rest of their lives, and they can be completely incapable of defending themselves against the assaults and the crime being committed against them – and there are children. If I'm going to point to one judicial task that's ahead of everyone else in the years to come, it's to preserve the legal certainty of children and prevent and prevent abuse and crime against children, which we unfortunately know is far too widespread in our country. This is also the main priority of SV's justice policy in our alternative budget, because too many children experience physical and mental power, and we have had several serious cases of murder and cases of gross violence in the fall. That's why we're proposing, first of all, strengthening the children's houses, which have gradually developed into a very important hub in the work against violence and abuse of children. Secondly, we are calling for an increase in police competence, not least when it comes to the investigation of violence against children. We have to review the procedures for that kind of case in the police, and the waiting time for a hearing has to go down if we're going to manage these matters better. It is important to stress that these and other measures — including in other areas of society, because good justice policies towards children are, in fact, the most prevalent in areas other than justice — are part of a systematic effort to better address the potential of children. So it's going to be about 10 pst. by Norwegian women have been subjected to electoral scrutiny, and we know – as several speakers have been in it – that power in close relations is a huge social problem. That is why, in our budget, we have also made a heavy effort to strengthen the Morality Departments in the districts, both capacity and competence, strengthen the Central Unit of the Police against sexualised violence and increase support to the National Knowledge Centre for Selected and Traumatic Stress. Then I would like to draw up a few other areas: I thought the representative Nybø had a good report on legal certainty, and the need to strengthen legal aid we have prioritised in our alternative budget by increasing the support for low-threshold legal aid measures, and in part by reversing the government's cut at the victims' compensation office – to list some issues. I also believe that the proposal to take up the salary for lawyers is right now, and that it is a major challenge that this will not be followed up more closely in the future. It is also important to prevent extremism and work systematically on it. There has been a good effort by the government in important areas and an action plan, but there is one area where I am a little upset, and that concerns research into extremism. In the field of defence and justice, this did not seem to be a high priority; there are significant cuts in the defence budget in the strategic research funds. SV has also put in an extra effort on exit measures to prevent extremism and research into it. We believe it is crucial that we understand and have more systematic knowledge of the different environments of extremism – the reasons for it and how they grow in Norway – in order to put in place even better measures in the future. Let me also briefly mention, on the occasion of the debate that we have had in the last few days, that we have also seen extra means to figure out the possibility of an animal police force, i.e. an own department of the police. I think the time has come to assess whether those matters are well enough dealt with in today's system, or whether we should actually have a separate unit, as a number of actors have called for. Finally, it is good that important areas of justice policy are characterised by broad agreement in the budget, but I believe that the major issues that will shape the debate on justice policy are more issues of value – not least the police reform on how to organise the budget may be one of the most important issues next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e603	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e606	SV has been absent from the major police reform debates that have taken place in the last year. I understand that it is difficult to follow the day-to-day debate that characterises the justice sector when you are not in the committee, but it has been ample opportunity to participate in the perhaps most important matter during this period. Perhaps the strongest impression I'm left with, after reading what SV really means, is that they believe that the reform work is too slow. But that is not a courageous position in the field of justice. It's sitting in the opposition and having unrealistic expectations. So what does SV think about the content of the police analysis? And, in concrete terms, what does the SV want with the police reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e613	The most common view of the government when waiting for a reform is that one is annoyed that the opposition looks very much before it is presented. So I want to say there's a surprising input that they want more meaning before the proposal comes on the table. Let me take a super short version here: we're concerned that the police reform should not just be a structure, but have elements of content. Strengthening research will be decisive to support a reform – that there is an actual commitment to improving research. That leadership and culture and how we work on it are at the centre of a new police reform is decisive for us. When it comes to structure, we see the need to make changes in our service locations and districts. But we're going to give decisive attention to the fact that the local police, as we're familiar with the idea, are going to be able to pass on, so there's a lot of places where the police can reach people. So I'm going to say that we're going to wait for the proposal and be open to engage in dialogue with the other party in the Storting about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e625	Let me first thank you for a neat and good debate so far. The government has put a lot of emphasis on thinking about the whole thing. We have therefore put in place three chain perspectives in the Ministry of Justice and Security: one for the criminal chain, one for the asylum chain and one for the security and social security chain. For the criminal justice chain, it has been important to see the context even when we have presented this budget. I noted that the chairman of the committee, the representative Tajik, said that it was a fine, pointless budget, while we heard from the pulpit others who have characterized it as the budget of the times, that it created a hallelujah mood, etc. The difference may well be that the representative Tajik characterises as straightforward and unorthodox, is precisely this whole bet – it gives a rise across the whole criminal chain as we now increase by a net of 350 more policemen and strengthen the prosecution side quite dramatically, with about half a dozen people. 50 new prosecutors and 12 new state attorneys. We also strengthen the salary base of state lawyers, so that they are even better able to recruit and retain their skills. There is very strong competition in the market to secure that State attorney's competence. Now we've been doing the arrests that the prosecution has been waiting for for many years. In 2014, the government lifted the suspension of employment in the courts. We are now further increasing the capacity of the courts by 10 million. kr, and we're in criminal custody. In fact, some critics criticise the fact that ‘only’ is 41 new places in 2015. But it's not just that. In addition, there's a 50 million bet. kr in exceptional maintenance costs to ensure that we release prison closures. We have come with us – also in the media lately – how dramaticly badly maintained some Norwegian prisons are. Then it's important that the government does, to bet on it as well. In addition, in this budget statement, we have stated that we can reach agreement with the Netherlands on the rental of prison places there. It'll give you an important boost. Then, too, I would like to say that in the pre-Christmas report, of course, there will also be a proposal for a strategy on how to build new prisons. But we've rigged this country with a quality assurance system that means you can't build a prison from one year to another, you have to implement that quality assurance in this government, as in the previous government. That's what's been a bit of the criticism in the past, that we've come too short for us to be able to put the drawer in the ground on several prison projects. Overall, this is an important and important boost to the criminal justice chain. In addition, it's set at 150 million. on the implementation of police reform. It is important that we start in 2015 with the work that we know will come. We still have the investment in ICT of 200 million. kr. It is very important that you look at the extent to which the ICT side of the police actually has, what it also represents on the service side. It is absolutely vital that we continue that ICT-lift. There are enormous challenges there too. Then I want to say a few words about violence in close relationships. I am truly sorry when the Workers' Party tries to create the impression that I am not involved in this. First of all, it's completely wrong. Secondly, we are now showing practical results by making a solid effort to reduce child questioning time. It was in the spring of 54 days. In October it approached 40, and in November it approached 30. So we're delivering practical results in an extremely important area, and hopefully that's more important than some fissile millimeters. But I almost feel like it's such a trick that was common in the schoolyard before: if you can't take the ball, take the man. I think it's a shame, because it's a total big deal that's involved in this problem. We have had several debates in this process, where there is a cross-political, strong consensus on how to bet on the fight against violence in close relations, especially when children are involved. Then I want to say that the chairman of the committee started by saying something like -- a little short summarised by my side, easily reproduced -- all that's good in this budget, is a continuation from the work of the previous government. Everything new is too bad. It's hard to deal with that, because it's simply not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e642	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e645	In the Justice budget, there is a reduction of nearly 1 billion. kr, if one looks at the efficiency improvement, which is equivalent to 0,6 pst., but also looks at the changes in the VAT regime, which correspond to approximately 850 million. kr. We have asked the Ministry of Finance how the changes in the VAT regime affect different chapters and posts, and we have been told that it does not know what is really wrong – it can't be done for it – which means that in some areas it may hit correctly, given the situation and the need, and other places do not meet it equally correctly. What I am looking for is: can the Minister of Justice guarantee that the cuts he has made will not affect the quality or content of the work done in the police or in criminal matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e652	That kind of guarantee is difficult to give from the Storting Chair – also from elsewhere, for that matter – but what I can guarantee is that we should have a lot of attention around this to see that the device does not have unintended consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e657	I thank you for that answer, but we're going to follow it carefully from the Storing's side. There are changes that the Minister of Justice has made that do not have to look bad on content and quality. My next question relates to a headline in Dagbladet yesterday that the number of people added to the Police Directorate by over 1 million. kr in annual salary has been more than double from the beginning of 2013 to today. Eighteen Cappelen of the SSB says that the wage developments of the circle around the police director are also high compared to others. My question is whether Anundsen understands that this payroll party can eat up the growth of the police budget, and that it can affect the work of ordinary police officers and women. What does he want to do to prevent that from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e664	The national wage policy has the following starting point: it must be a competitive wage, but it must not be a pay-leader. I find it difficult for a government council to comment on that statement in the newspaper. I think the representative Tajik has previously been concerned about recruiting good leaders in the Police Directorate. Now I think it's beyond 60 pst. by the leaders of the Police Directorate who have been replaced, and we see that there have been some consequences on the pay side. In general, I am concerned that there should be a fair, competitive, but not payroll level in the public sector in general, and that must apply to the police as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e671	I want to pay tribute to the Minister of Justice for the efforts to combat violence against children, and in particular the effort to bring down waiting time at the children's homes in the case of court hearings. This is not a new issue. I myself have had repeated questions in this room, discussions, and looked at waiting times that have been extreme for many, many years. And despite a great increase in matters, which unfortunately must be referred to as joyous because there is a lot of darkness, the waiting time is coming down. I find it difficult to tell myself contented before we are under the legal deadline for sexual assault, in 14 days, but it should also be under it in cases of violence. The majority has taken some decisions in the case of judicial hearings, and we want to see more action taken. Among other things, the children’s homes are calling for the regulation to be put in place, so that a person gets a level playing field, for example. in the case of medical examinations etc. Can the Minister of Justice say anything about when that rule comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e679	This is one of the very important and high priority issues we work with in the department. We've been working on it over time, simply because the Säverud Committee's position, which was the basis for the regulatory work, got a lot of access during the consultation round, and we've probably thought that it's crucial that we now create a solution that keeps time, that's efficient and good, that's better for children's legal certainty than today, and that also ensures that one has the resources to keep the deadlines. It's always dangerous to make dates, but this is very high priority. It is tempting to make a date anyway, but there are such things that can hit hard back. But it's high priority, and it won't be too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e686	What I'm going to ask is audio and video equipment in the courts. There is no doubt that legal certainty will be strengthened on the day one is allowed to record sound and images in all Norwegian courts. There's something we in the Center Party are so concerned about that we've seen of money to start working in the budget for next year. We have also been clear in the past that we think it should be possible to use admissions in other instances, i.e. in appeals, where there are cases with victims and witnesses that have experienced something so bad that they should not give the explanation again. I would like to know how the Minister of Justice prioritises the task of putting audio and video equipment in place. When does the government add that this is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e693	It's a priority high, and the government shares the commitment of the representative Klinge in this respect. There are some economic challenges to this, and there is an investigation by the Court of Justice with a cost analysis that shows an enormous cost of implementing this. It is now a few years old, and after dialogue with the DA, as far as I know, they will now be working on an update of what will result from costs. This type of technology is much more reasonable today than it was at the time of the investigation. In addition, they need to make some changes to the Criminal Procedures Act if this is to have the function that the Blade is after. Therefore, this is also part of the mission of the Publicly Appointed Criminal Procedures Commission, which is to look at how sound and video recordings can contribute to improving the effectiveness and improvement of legal certainty in legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e698	The size has been quite clear that no one should sit on the smooth cell for more than 48 hours. The last figures I've got are from the central detention centre in Oslo in October of this year. They show that 78 people have been sitting more than one day longer than the deadline, 18 have been sitting more than two days longer than the deadline, 13 have been sitting three days longer than the deadline, and four have been sitting four days longer than the deadline. This is a violation of human rights, which takes place on the watch of the Minister of Justice. What does the Minister of Justice intend to do to bring this practice into line with what the Storting has decided? We have had a Document 8 proposal for treatment where it was quite clear that the government also wanted to equip the cells in another way, which makes it easier to sit there, and that you get stimulation for the brain. What will the Minister of Justice do with next year's budget to get this done?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e705	I share the commitment of the representative Nybø at this point. Human rights violations shall not occur. For this reason, the National Advocate has issued new guidelines for the use of this type of prison. It's not long since that happened. I expect the new guidelines to be followed up by the individual police districts, and that this in itself will help to reduce human rights violations. Then, after some time with these new guidelines, it is important to go through this to see if you have received the results you can expect. If those results are not available, we need to implement measures. I just want to say – to the last question – that in some police districts some attempts have already been made to create a cell environment that takes care of the interest that the representative Nybø is after, namely that the pressure of sitting on smooth cells should not be as great as it is today. Among other things, there's lighting control, there's clock -- these simple things -- in new cells. This is a work that we will follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e712	Towards the end of the next week, there are four weeks since a general temporary weapon was introduced by the police in Norway. I have understood that there will be a new safety assessment before that, and that therefore there will certainly be an assessment whether it should continue or not quite towards the time. However, the Minister of Justice and the Department have had time to think about how they will present this, how they will ensure an open debate around it, and how they will involve the Storting in such an important decision in a good way. So in what way will the Minister of Justice involve Stortinget in it, and in what way will he ensure that it becomes possible to debate it publicly? For example, he wants to. take the initiative to present in the Chamber the assessments and the decision he then makes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e717	It may well be the case that it may become applicable gradually. What we don't know yet is how long this will last, and it's very important for me to make sure that we don't get into a situation where we have what some people have thought is a kind of snitching of general weapons, because that's not the purpose of this. That is why we have also called for a limited period of time with regard to the proposal that came from the POD. We will look closely at other risk-reducing measures that could cross the lines when there is a need for armaments, etc., but here we will also pay particular attention to the technical evaluation of the Police Directorate. So I hope that we will now gradually come into a situation where the threat level may go down, but at least we have other risk mitigation measures that can allow us to take the big discussion about how the armed conditions in the Norwegian police are going to be in the future, at a different level, of course with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e722	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e727	The government parties are overly enthusiastic about the government's first budget – and that is understandable, of course – despite the fact that the main lines of the previous government are fixed. Government parties can enjoy more – they can enjoy more money than ever, and some other government. That money is spent on tax cuts for the richest. They are rarely in criminal custody, either among employees, prisoners, victims or relatives. The vision of the Labour Party is that the justice sector should support a larger social project – large money on large tasks, small differences, increased membership and a justice policy that meets the needs of citizens for security. The basis for a safe society lies in prevention — safe growth, good and sufficient teachers and health sisters. It lies in the good rehabilitation of prisoners, good contents in prison and free care, and a merciful and solidarity approach to those who commit crime, without being released from being held accountable for their actions and settling themselves fairly. Penalties shall be returned to victims and communities in a fair manner. For 422 days, the Minister of Justice has been ready, but unclear. What happens to foreign prisoners, enough closed prisons and foreign prisons? A little we know: Sweden – no, the Netherlands – does not know, duplicate – neither new, good nor big. For 422 days, we have wondered if there is anything new about content, return and prevention. For 422 days, we've been waiting for the government's goals and visions in criminal custody. It'll probably be next week. We'll wait. Over 250 million. kr per year, on average, went to the criminal services of the Stoltenberg II administration. Minister of Justice Anundsen submitted some Ninety million. In the first budget of this Government, and on average this year, Minister of Justice Anundsen has established half as many places as the previous government. In June 2013, under our government, the settlement queue was 1,114. In June 2014, under new government, 100 more were in line. The working party knows that the task of contact with children is important, and more jobs are needed. That's why we're making it possible to hire over 40 more. Women have special challenges as prisoners. I record that the Minister of Justice has not lifted this in criminal custody – women are only mentioned once. The Labour Party takes on seriously the challenges faced by female prisoners. That's why we're going to give 1.5 million. to psychologists at Bredtveit prison. That's why we've labeled 1.5 million. for cultural and outdoor measures for women. That's why we're going to allocate $30 million. kr for jobs that also benefit Bredtveit. I have recorded that there are two different perceptions of this budget. The Progress Party in the Government seems to be a comprehensive and non-directional budget, while the Progress Party in the UK believes that these are clear priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e753	Taking over the Ministry of Justice last autumn must have been an interesting experience. This is a sector that has experienced a real increase of 30 pst. Over the past eight years, but where the problems have nevertheless accumulated, and there have been two very depressing reports of the state of things. I think some of the problem has been that instead of taking some proper force, the previous government chose to lubricate the funds thinly. There is also one exception: at one time the appropriations for the police increased quite sharply. It was probably not the trigger of a political will first and foremost, it was the trigger of new working time regulations. There are working time regulations that, according to Dagbladet, we need 19 years of police work to mann a police patrol of two people. It's probably given us the most expensive police in the world without the great effects of it being shown. So the result of lubricating budgetary resources thinly has been that we have not only got one bottleneck, but many bottlenecks in the criminal chain. So this government has faced formidable challenges of speeding up the criminal chain and removing the plugs in the system. But with this budget, work has started. The power to strengthen the police has already been widely discussed by the representative, Mr. Werp. But the year's budget has also cleared up another and long-standing inheritance sin in terms of the prosecution authority. The chief of police lawyers has stated that this is the ‘judgment of the times’. There is a maximum amount of effort needed to advance the investigation and proceedings in the police department. In the police judicial circles, the joy is simply over the fact that the country has been given a new policy course that actually dares to give priority to some fields in the justice sector rather than others. Then we can go on to the courts, where there must also be a shipper's roof in this magnification period. Year after year with stagnation in e.g. the number of Judges has led to a large fall in the number of Judges. We have already begun to employ several judges and case handlers. As for the representative Kari Henriksen, he said they are waiting and waiting for the message coming next week, it is worth remembering that it is soon ten years since the representative Henriksen's party could do something about that waiting time. Now this government is doing it, and I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e772	For those who have major concerns today, I will provide a clarification and a case report. There is a real probability that this budget will be revised in May/June next year. So those concerns could possibly be put to rest until then. I also do not overlook the fact that there will also be an balancing next harvest, so the great concerns expressed today can probably be returned if it is not expected to be necessary. Politics is about priority. When I hear the Workers' Party standing here talking about children's houses, I want to say I'm 100 pst. agree with their points, but what disappoints me most is what those priorities are going to cost. Where in the free frame that the police have today, there's room to take away 100 million. and prioritize anything else? The priority is in place in terms of the plus-time – it's okay – but the way in which this should be assessed for those who are dependent on police services avoids being skillfully avoided. I belong to those who are proud of the Norwegian rule of law and the principles of law we have here. We initially have a very good foundation. There will be discussions about nuances, as it is now, but it will always be, because politics is about priority. Once I've had the pleasure of visiting, among other things. Ila prison, I have visited the weakest of the weakest. Viewed in the light of the talk here today about solidarity, I wonder: Where is the effort of the Workers' Party? After eight years in government, then, the conditions for the weakest of the weakest in Norwegian prisons are still as bad as they were when the Workers' Party joined after the Bondevik II government. Is that what you're proud of today, when you're standing here and yelling at yourself for your own excellence? I understand that what the new government has done is to take hold of where other governments have failed, not least what the Minister of Justice has now done together with the Minister of Health: to take action so that the prisoners get a better daily life. For the Progress Party, it is important to be tough on those tough, while at the same time it must be quality for the most vulnerable, including in criminal matters. There's another element I need to say something about, namely the volunteering: I'm incredibly proud to be part of a national assembly in a country that has such a great volunteer. There I think many other countries have something to learn from us. People put up and take responsibility, regardless of whether you should or need to, but because you have a feeling that it's their duty. I'm proud of that. Let me finally get into another field that is also important: our main rescue centers. There is the Progress Party on a majority comment that I hope the Council of State has read carefully, because I intend to be relatively balanced and calm today with regard to that field, but I promise the Council of State that I intend to continue with this. Our main rescue centres are a coordinating factor, which is absolutely crucial when crises occur, and they deserve even more attention than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e787	Criminal care region west has alerted about the supply of sick and exorcising prisoners in Bergen prison. Several inmates have serious mental illness, and their additions are more and more likely to cope with irrational behaviour and unstable interventions. Developments have led to a strong increase in the use of safety cells since 2012. In 2012, security cells were used 28 times in prison. Last year, the amount increased to 49 cases. Use of a safety bed is another coercive measure that has increased. For the past 24 years, the use of a safety bed has hardly been registered in Bergen prison. So far this year the safety cot has been used five times. It is not just the criminal services that are warning about this serious development. In a report from the Health Directorate last year, increased levels of mental illness among prison inmates in Norway were well documented. It is a political responsibility to ensure that mental disorders are provided with the treatment they are entitled to. I therefore call on Minister of Justice Anundsen to give them his upper hand. Extra resources in the Ila prison budget are good, but this does not solve the challenges of other prisons in Norway. I note in the vote that a joint committee has just shown the situation at Bergen prison and the increased use of security measures there, and I am pleased that a joint committee points out that the government must work for closer cooperation between mental health protection and prison services. Minister of Justice Anundsen, in answer to a written question from me, said that the government would ask the Directorate of Criminal Affairs for a report on the use of safety cots and other cots at Bergen prison. I'm glad to be done. The Minister also responds that he has ongoing dialogue with the Minister of Health and Care about the health provision of the prisoners. The size needs to be informed about what the state councils Höie and Anundsen will actually do to strengthen the supply of mental ills in prison. I'm very concerned that we're now going to commit a serious mental illness a major wrong. Prisons other than Ila also need to increase staffing for those with special needs because of their mental health. I am also concerned that the reform of efficiency and red tape to the government will go beyond the provision of services to those most in need. Criminal services will save $25 million. kr next year. The fact that this is to be achieved by means of smarter purchases, transport and logistics, as State Secretary Brein-Carlsen said to the Official Journal of Bergen in November, can be a hope, but more cut in crews can soon become a reality. The ratio of mental illness in Norwegian prisons is no better with more vigilance and coercive measures. These are people who need treatment and close follow-up of medical staff. The government needs to ensure that the health services of inmates are equivalent to the services of the rest of the population, because today they are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e804	The working party and the red-green government strengthened the work of social security and preparedness for people to experience a high level of security for life, health and important values. We were concerned that when a crisis arises, it should be managed quickly and efficiently, with sufficient competence at all levels. We were trying to get the most out of society's response resources, so that the whole became larger than the sum of the individual parts. One of the measures to strengthen preparedness was to merge administratively the two centres of the Sola and Bodø into one unit under the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The aim was to provide clearer guidelines from the Department of the Main Rescue Centre and to provide the Main Rescue Centre with a clearer coordination function in the rescue service. This should also strengthen the cooperation between public and voluntary organisations in the rescue services. I would encourage the Council of State to announce what is the timing and follow-up of this matter further. A strong close-up police force of adequate competence at all levels is the basic preparedness of our society. The Labour Party and the Red-Green Government have travelled around all the 27 police districts in the spring, in the summer and in the autumn. There we have experienced a good dialogue and, not least, a longing for progress on the new police reform and what framework the police will work in the future. The Labour Party presented a communication on preparedness for terrorism, which had a number of measures affecting the police’s daily lives and their ability to act. Now today's government and the Council of State have been sitting for 442 days. We are still waiting for this police reform. It was about coming in the spring, in the summer, in the autumn and for Christmas. But during the national meeting of the Police Association late in the fall, we were told that it would be a delayed Christmas present. Yes, it is Christmas again, and Christmas lasts until Easter. No, that's not true, that's not true, because between them comes solid. We're going to have to hope that the police, the courts and the criminal justice community will never get caught up in the future. The Labour Party has had a good dialogue around pending the new police reform, and we want to follow this closely. We are wondering about today's state budget meeting the challenges of a new reform. Will we achieve the goal of two police officers and women per 1,000 inhabitants, for whom there is a cross-political agreement? What budgetary resources will enable us to ensure a good close-up policy in the future in all the municipalities of the country and to be able to meet developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e825	The State budget makes full reference to the fact that we have received a government that is concerned with people's security and legal certainty. There can be no doubt that the task of the police is to fight and solve crime. Unfortunately, the inspections by state lawyers over the red-green period have shown uneven quality and uneven achievement between comparable police districts. There is a danger to legal certainty. The government will have a police, courts and criminal justice that are on the verge of crime. This is exactly why the Right Party and the Advance Party are strengthening the whole chain of criminal proceedings. The State budget is a serious strengthening of the prosecution authority, with 50 new police lawyers and 18 new posts in the higher prosecution authority. Nor could the Riksadvokat hide his joy. "We've been waiting for years for this," he said. Just over time and in various contexts, the National Advocate has rightly expressed concerns about the police investigation situation: overall, the Riks lawyer is not in doubt that ‘the police’s ability to investigate — and thereby clarify and execute — criminal offences [...] is under pressure’. This has evolved over time under red-green rule, with the Workers' Party's knowledge. The alarm message should have been taken too long. That is why the government is strengthening the police with 350 new police officers and those 50 new prosecutors. In addition, the Minister of Justice is following other police areas in order to strengthen the investigation environment in the police case. Over time, the police have been the most attractive job among law students, but we see that they are going to be there for a very short time. What is more serious is that the higher prosecution authority has problems recruiting and retaining good prosecutors. A scrupulous actorate is particularly important in order to maintain legal certainty in the face of competent defence lawyers. It is precisely for this reason that the government strengthens the State Attorney's office and is now open to look at the salary of state lawyers. The justice sector has received a prolonged power injection. The reason is really quite simple and obvious. We have a government that believes that it is one of the central tasks of the state to ensure the legal certainty and security of its citizens by preventing, combating and resolving crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e842	There is an invisible war in Norway that is going on every single day – the invisible war that destroys life and takes life. Jon Gangdal has called the last book "The Invisible War." The story of Eve – and violence against women and children in Norwegian homes”. I want to talk about the terror that affects thousands of kids, women and men, and they experience it from their neighbors. I want to talk about gross everyday crime – yes, because this is everyday crime. It's only when we recognize that the choice in close relationships is everyday crime, that we can give both the attention that it needs and the necessary priorities that it requires. Power in close relationships is not just a serious social problem, it's a serious crime, and it has to be treated like that. Before the Stoltenberg II government, there was no children's home in Norway. Now we have ten children's homes, which I know has meant a lot to children's legal certainty. And there is a need to strengthen this further. That is why the Labour Party proposes that 100 million. kr shall be earmarked for children's houses above the budget. We have written in the comments, and repeat today, that we lack a clear prioritization of this in the judiciary proposition, but we are very pleased that the Christian People's Party in the Committee has contributed to both a greater emphasis on and through the negotiations ensuring that the rights are strengthened together with the Left. To the representative Ellingen, who asks questions about how we can defend such a priority, and what we should have prioritised down, I have to say that this article makes me ask a question. The representative, Ropstad, said that through the agreement, $90 million. kr for children's cottages. It's very good, and I also scraped it off in my line to Ropstad. But now I understand even better why my criticism of earmarking is still standing. For Ellingsen's post, it really indicates that the 90 million people may not go to children's homes – because if they do, the representative Ellingsen must ask himself the question he asked to the Labour Party. It was said by Anders B. Werp in an article earlier today that they are also pleased with the strengthening of the school staff. It's good that it's going to cost 200 million. kr to the school nurse, but there I have a request, and that is that one should learn from some mistakes we made when we put in government. When we didn't hear anything about the school staff, the funds weren't used the way they were supposed to do it. The working party proposes to earmark 200 million. kr for the scholastic services. To make sure that this bet actually happens, that's the way to do it. In the end, nothing pleases me more than if the Minister of Justice really shows commitment to these matters. I just want to remind you that criticism of the Minister of Justice comes not only from the Labour Party, but also from interest groups and political commentators in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e857	An important field of criminal care is children in prison and children of prisoners in prison. Norway has an obligation to do its utmost to prevent children from being put in ordinary prisons. This is important both in order to avoid breaches of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to ensure the proper exercise of the rights of the child. Prisoners under the age of 18 are vulnerable, and will often be more closely linked to criminal settings by the imposition of penalties in ordinary prisons. That's why I'm happy that the government is adding up to put four places in a separate compensation unit for youth at Eidsvoll at a cost of 20 million. kr. This is a measure necessary to ensure a good rehabilitation situation for criminals under 18 years of age. I am also satisfied with the job done in criminal care to provide the best possible facilities for children of prisoners, and that, in a short time, they will be appointed as child care officers at all units in the criminal care regions. At the same time, it must be important that association is on the child’s premise. Otherwise, I have registered that the Labour Party in the various debates this week has shown that everything we do from good action is just a continuation of their own policy. I expect that they are satisfied that we are not continuing their policy on what may have been one of Norway's most serious human rights violations, which is now being corrected. In spring 2014, the demanding mentally ill detention centre at Ila had been in total isolation for up to three years. This is a practice that has been going on for years and on which the previous government did not give priority to finding a solution. Both the Civil Ombudsman, the Criminal Service and the European Torture Committee have made extensive criticisms of the years of isolation of mentally ill prisoners, without any action being taken to improve the situation before the revised national budget 2014. I am also very pleased that the government is continuing the appropriations from the revised budget in 2014 and proposing 10 million. kr to continue this action in the 2015 budget. At the same time, after the transition from the protective regime to today’s detention laws, it has in some cases become more difficult to provide proper treatment for mentally ill prisoners. I am therefore pleased that the Civil Ombudsman supervises the criminal service, and expects that what may be revealed will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e868	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the representative Ebbesen for what she said about children in prison. I think it's very nice that it's going to be the theme of the budget debate with the Ministry of Justice. They absolutely deserve the attention they are given here now, and not least in the perspective of this debate. We're going to Christmas, and we're probably meeting the festival where both adults and little ones have the greatest expectations. This applies to children of those in prison who are absolutely unfulfilled with their expectations, but not least to the large group of children who feel that the festival is one of their greatest downfalls and where expectations really fail. In this way, I am very excited that the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and those who have taken part in the debate here have spent so much time in the debate just to raise that violence and crime that affects the very least. There is a crime that was also described as terrorism-like in the previous articles, or in the previous two articles. It's persistent, it's very serious, it's happening in an arena where the kids have to feel safe: at home, and it's towards the most vulnerable group we can imagine. In this way, I believe that we have two challenges to do with this, and that makes the debate around children's homes extraordinarily important. But children's homes should only be the beginning of many measures that need to come, and as the Storting has to go into more than we might do now. We need to increase the risk of detection, and it is great to see that policy benefits, that from 2006 to 2013, there has been an increase in the number of reviews from 81 – well – to nearly 1800. This is first and foremost proof that it benefits with political grips, and we've been gathered about all of this here, so we have to be happy about that. Then we must also have the ability to think differently in response, that the burden of proof these children face in the criminal chain – in addition to any reasonable doubt – is usually not appropriate, and that many of the measures that society needs to take must be based on a completely different burden of proof. That's what's going on with the children's houses, where the doubt benefits the children. I hope that in the future we can also discuss, in addition to what we experience as a very affordable priority on the part of the Labour Party, that we are now stimulating the children's homes financially in the way that we want to do from the Workers' Party, but that we also have the ability to find other approaches to how we react, not just to the children, but also to those who are attackers. The mechanisms of conflict for families with children in which there is violence are now a good example of thinking differently. The children's houses are a good start, but it's just the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e877	Near-police is a description of a police officer who comes when people need it, a police officer who knows the local conditions, and a police officer who does good preventive work. The police must and must operate throughout the country. People's security and security are just as much worth it, regardless of where they live. The response time in the district police depends on the number of people at work and on the availability of patrols. If the watch lists are short, the ability to act quickly is also reduced. Some people live with up to two hours of response time, and this is totally unacceptable. Just improving the response time has been important for the Central Party in our alternative state budget. We're making 200 million dollars. to the district police to provide better watch arrangements and to obtain more people to work. The police shall, when necessary, be the first on the ground. In 2015, it shall not be necessary for the police officers, when they receive the letter of assignment from the Police Directorate, to sit and look where they can save money and where the cuts are to be taken. We have previously discussed the carpentry of canal offices in the districts of this room – offices that are being drained for resources, jobs that are not advertised, and empty premises with a yellow note on the door that you have to contact another office. The central party has a serious concern that this will continue in 2015. In this context, clear political signals are needed. There is no contradiction between having a well-equipped police force in the big cities and at the same time investing in a well-established local police force. Preventing and averting crime brings great social savings, which should be included in all accounts. We're going to have a full-blown police force, not an A- and B-police. When the centre party's commitment to a good police force across the country is seen in the context of the great effort to improve and strengthen border control, we will make Norway better equipped to fight crime. It may be as simple as getting smart surveillance cameras installed on all mobile border crossings, and making sure you have more luck-filled border stations. With simple action, we can quickly improve the fight against crime in this area. Finally, I would like to highlight the Centre Party's strong commitment to criminal care and the rapid construction of new prison sites. In the long run, setting up shelters abroad does not help, we also need enough space at home – and it is urgent.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e892	The representatives Vågslid and Storberget both referred to the Workers' Party's wish to bet on violence in close relations. Earlier in the fall, the Council of State responded positively to a call from us to make violence in close relations a responsibility for municipal emergency services. I wonder if the Council of State has thought about how he will follow up on this. There are several reasons why I'm asking. Violence in close relationships occurs every day. It affects women and children, it affects the elderly. Estimates are between 75,000 and 150,000 victims a year, but we don't know for sure. Therefore, it is a pity that the government chose to drop the scope study. But we know that when it happens, it's not a one-off case, but a continuous chain of physical and mental terror over the years. The victims are unable to break out until after a long time, sometimes not until it is too late. This is crime of the worst kind. Had these acts of violence happened on the open street, it would have been raging. Large resources had been put in place to take the perpetrators and to protect the victims. But it happens at home, where you were supposed to be safe, so the crisis should actually be bigger. But unfortunately later we often do not see. The departments concerned lack competence to see and ask the right questions. Often the cases are settled, and the victims get worse than before. You don't become a knowledgeable scientist working with violence in close relationships. Responsibility is powdered. There must be one place. In the Security Council, everyone has partial responsibility. That's where they can talk. For a little over a year, I have been a member of the Parliament's Committee on Judicial Remuneration. There we see how many children in this country have been exposed to, and we see the consequences many years later in the form of mental problems, lack of schooling, intoxication and ruined lives. In the Labour and Social Committee, where I sit, we are concerned about an increasing number of young people. 59 pst. they have a diagnosis of mental and behavioural disorders. In addition to young disabled people, nearly 40,000 people under the age of 30 are registered with Nav with reduced working capacity. I have asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs if we have statistics or research that can say something about how many of these are victims of violence in close relationships. The answer was no, we don't know, we just know that the young people we're talking about here have often fallen out of high school, that many of them have health problems, especially related to mental illness and addiction. So in the justice committee, we see the connection to violence in close relationships. We also see that many times we have been in contact with auxiliaries and the police. Still, it goes wrong. No one seems well enough equipped for this task – not school, not hub, not child protection, not health care, not police. It's time for these floors to start talking – focused. Someone has to take responsibility for that. The Minister of Justice is a maximum current candidate for that task.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e907	Children are often asked what to become when they grow up. The answers are many: princess, director, carpenter, teacher, etc. I don't think there's a child who has a dream of being a criminal. Despite that, there are many young people who end up on the slope. Our responsibility as politicians is to remove the starting blocks of the criminal career, and the best and most effective policy for more security is good prevention. A good community economy is a prerequisite for good and broad prevention. When the Workers' Party strengthens the local economy, the local people elected to give priority to leisure activities for young people, quality in kindergarten and a school that can trap those who are struggling and those who are falling away. That is good prevention policy. Every day, there's a great deal of prevention: on football courts, in clubs and in recreational clubs. It is in good growing-up settings that qualities, strategies and attitudes that protect against crime are created. Therefore, the Workers' Party's commitment to culture, local economy and volunteering is important. Everything is related to everything, and it's a whole policy that makes sure that more people can actually become what they dream of when they grow up. Safety also depends on good rehabilitation. In Valdres, there is a unique prison. The history of prison is the story of what can be achieved when combining good ideas, fires, progress and a unique opportunity to find practical solutions. Cooperation with high school, municipality and local business has provided the prisoners with tools to master life without crime. This is where all the good intentions of the criminal welfare report are realized every day. When the prison celebrated the 25th anniversary in 2010, the then Minister of Justice Knut Storberget guaranteed for the future of Slide Island. Now, unfortunately, there is uncertainty. Criminal law enforcement has been called for to improve efficiency and has therefore proposed to close the department. On Wednesday, over 500 people gathered in Valdres. The message was ready: do not lay down any more state jobs in Valdres, let us keep the good prison in the Isle of Slide! At a time when we need all the settlements we can get, it must be out of the question to put down an entire prison ward. I'm going to be clear enough – it's approaching Christmas – to understand that it can be challenging for a government council in a minority government to guarantee the future of prison, but the question is: does the Council of State want to maintain prison, and does he have this as ambition? If the Minister of Justice wants more settlements, the plans for the Isle of Slime and enlargement are clear, and I can guarantee that the Minister of Justice will get a lot of money back. I can also wish the Minister of Justice Christmas and recommend the Christmas song that the prison inmates have made to keep their prison.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e922	The fight against rape is about security and freedom. When about 10 pst. by Norwegian women who have been raped, thousands of women have experienced their own safety and freedom being deprived. That's why it's also joyous when there's such a big and broad commitment here from all sides and all parties. Nevertheless, what we saw after the National Science Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress presented its nationwide study was some newspaper headlines. So quiet it abruptly, despite striking numbers that show how extensive this problem is. In its alternative budget, SV has chosen to give priority to strengthening the police unit against sexualised violence. Here we've put 10 million. kr that are ear-marked. In addition, we strengthen the Moral Departments in the districts. It's about increasing the capacity and competence of the first line among those who meet women when they've experienced something of the worst that a human being can experience. Half of the women who reported rape to the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress had been raped before they turned 18. This says something about the situation of young women. When my friends and their parents are worried and worried, it is not unconditional. The figures show that women's freedom is limited. I think the big problem is that we don't talk enough about rape. It's still a theme of taboos, guilt and shame. Of the women in the study at the knowledge centre, there was only 11 pst. who were in medical examination or treatment for the first time thereafter. Nearly a third had never told anyone – a third. It's hard to understand that we haven't come anymore. It is as the representative of Mrs Wagzlid said so well earlier today that this is gross everyday crime. Violence is contrary to Norwegian law, it is an attack on fundamental human rights, and the consequences are enormous for those involved. 10 pst. by Norway, women have been raped. This is not a number in a statistics, these are real people who deserve help and support. It's probably talk, and it's time we acted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e938	The State budget for 2015 has a clearly unsocial profile. It takes the wrong direction in some of Norway, and it does not respond to the challenges facing us as a country. Perhaps our biggest challenge, the crime of working life and social dumping, is not just about the exploitation of foreign labour. It is about threatening Norwegian pay and working conditions, threatening the recruitment of skilled workers, jeopardising the whole of the Norwegian labour market model, competing with serious companies, and weakening productivity and quality in industry. Tax evasion and black work steal billions from the community, and in some cases this threatens the entire Norwegian welfare model. It doesn't hold to say that you're concerned about the problem, that you share the Workers' Party's analysis that you're not doing anything about it, and here the government and the Workers' Party are separating layers of will and ability to act. For what is the government doing in combating this problem? Well, it points to more stringent penalties and controls. That's good, it's cross-politically supported, but that's not enough at all. Crime at work is like any other crime; it must face both prevention and punishment. So far, the government has not given a single answer as to what it will do to prevent it. In order to prevent this crime, the strongest and most effective instrument we have is the trade-union movement. Trustees, with tools, which can be our eyes and ears, are the most effective supervision around the workplaces across the country. They need to get stronger tools and stronger positions. Is that what the government is doing? No, on the contrary - it suggests removing tools from your professional movement already has. It proposes to leave it again possible to pay temporary workers less than permanent employees, so that it will again pay off to hire them. The proposals for changes to the Working Environment Act, which will take place at round two today, are not an act that meets and combats unprofessionalism in the workplace. On the contrary, it's a hindrance to getting the problem alive. The Labour Inspectorate says that the proposals will make work on labour crime more difficult. It doesn't just keep punishing, like the government does. The Labour Party believes to have two thoughts in its head at the same time: prevention and punishment. We want the problem alive. On Monday, the government will have the chance to vote for 22 new measures to combat social dumping and crime at work. I expect that the government will again show that it does not take seriously the greatest challenge of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e953	The representative of Trettebergstien talked about prevention. I want to talk about another topic: rehabilitation. It is a fundamental goal that people convicted of crime should be rehabilitated and returned to society with a real opportunity to master it. One of the most important things to get to it is that the prisoner has contact with the world outside under atonement and gets help to get into ordinary networks after release. Criminal services can now help with housing, work and health on the way back to society. But what's forgotten is the rest of your life and not to go back to criminal environments where you have status and get recognition after release. It's where the network after settlement volunteers come in. The network works in such a way that the participants are connected with a volunteer – not a support contact, not an employee or a professional, but a volunteer who uses his or her own experience to help others on the right path. Prisoners who have been part of the program say that it has been absolutely vital to succeed in their return to society. We have a lot of non-governmental organisations that offer good deals to people who are in a very vulnerable situation. Voluntary organisations, such as The Church's Social Service, the Salvation Army and the Fangers Family Association are important supplements to public work among prisoners. The left therefore believes it is important that these be given a good framework for their work so that we thus create a more holistic and accurate criminal justice system. We are therefore very pleased that the allocation to non-governmental organisations in criminal matters increased by 2 million. The budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, compared to the government's proposals for the State budget. Another thing that I am very pleased that we secured in the conciliation is that we are passing on the funds for actions for the travelling homeless under the direction of voluntary organisations and municipalities. In a time when we see an increase in the number of people coming here, it makes no sense to reduce this offer. I'm myself a local politician and I'm looking very closely at how challenging it is for a municipality like Oslo to take care of completely basic health and humanitarian conditions for people in a very vulnerable situation. The job of humanitarian organisations such as The Red Cross and the Church's City Mission do for these people, are invaluable, and the 10 million. kr the state sets up in that pot, is the least we can contribute from this hall to those who are in line to get a bed in the cold. Last year, the red-greens removed these funds from their budgets, but the Left and Christian People's Party got them back into the conciliation with the government. This year it was the Right and Advance Party that took them away in their draft budget, and we had to take the fight again. I hope we've made it clear how important this is to us, and that we don't have to fight for this sum again, as long as the need is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e964	The government platform says to strengthen victim care, and I very much agree with that. The working party supports that goal. In spite of this, a cut was made in the operation of the Committee on Compensation for Victims by the Government when the budget was presented in October. This generated strong reactions from, among others. The National Association for Victims of Violence. The leaders of the Election Victims' Committee in the Summer of the Newspaper said that they would not be the losers, and indicated that they would do a proper job with the budget. We know that the cut came anyway, and if it had been agreed, the Victim Compensation Office would have done worse than before 2011. Once again, I am pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Left through the budgetary agreement made some changes. Unfortunately, it is not likely that a member of the Board of Directors will be strengthened for the next year, as the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV will, but I am pleased that one in the form of a note will write that one will avoid the planned cut of 10 million. kr for 2016. That's what's supporting me. I agree entirely with the representative Storberget that children's house is just the beginning, but it must be in place, and it is very good that Stortinget has agreed – on a proposal from the Labour Party – to make the use mandatory. There are several things that need to be done to strengthen victim care, and I agree with the representative, Mr Werp, who earlier today highlighted the importance of better coordination and cooperation in order to strengthen this. I think we need to strengthen the first line meeting with the victims of violence. We should sit down and discuss and evaluate the ban – whether it works as intended – and we should also discuss Code 6, with regard to all those who currently live in a secret address and the situation they have. An important measure to make life better and safer for many is also the introduction of the so-called stalking law. The law is waiting in the department, the hearing was over a year ago, and I hope he can get to the Stortinget as soon as possible. I have recorded that Right Linda Hofstad Helleland has stated that Right is against this law. I'm a little uncertain about what the answer was, so I could imagine getting a clarification from the Judicial Committee on that vote. I think we need a common criminal law protection for people who are stalking and violating their privacy, and I also think it might be very useful for the police in their work of punishing people like that. not to give peace to previous victims of violence, after they have been issued with election alarm. To the last – reverse dial alarm: There are 40 of them in Norway. One of them has been used, and I found that to be a little small. I think this is a very important and good tool, which signals very clearly that the burden should be placed on the perpetrator and not on the victim. So if the Minister of Justice is going to take the floor in the debate today, I could imagine that he said something about how we can get more people to use the reverse election alarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e981	Today we have a threat picture that makes the government put in place a temporary general weapon against the police. The Labour Party has great confidence in this decision on a good professional basis in order to secure society, groups and individuals against threats and violence. As I said in my first post, the Minister of Justice has now been sitting for 442 days. The Labour Party, like many others, within the police and other organisations, is alarmed at the progress of the establishment of a new National Emergency Response Centre. All those concerned with good security and social protection are concerned that the Council of State lacks action and a clear prioritisation in view of the progress of this centre, which will provide the police with a good practice area and not least provide good competence for further work. Still, the plans – as we understand it – are shot into the blues, pending the state councils to explore new options. That is why we hope that the Stortinget and the police and others will now be able to clarify the progress of this case. Today we see that the blue-blue government is struggling with polls, and we hear that the Council of State is sorry that interested organisations, the public and the media do not see the great commitment of the Council of State to violent children and their superiors. I record that the representative Ellingsen was concerned that the Progress Party and the government were going to be tough on those tough ones. As far as I know, it's an old jungle that the Phantom used to be tough on those tough ones. The Labour Party is more concerned with the weakest in society, how we can provide children and young people who are exposed to violence, good security, good growth and a good follow-up. The Labour Party is committed to having a police force that is involved in prevention, a police force that has great confidence in its community, and that can investigate and solve matters, and that we have a criminal body that can operate in rehabilitation that allows criminals to return to society. I remember the posts of the Council of State during the national meeting of the Police Federation. When it came to sending prisoners out of Norway to new prisons in the Netherlands, he mentioned it as the raisin in sausage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e994	Let me first say that it is very nice to take part in a debate on justice with the representatives of Storberget and Håheim again. I have a lot of good memories from previous debates. This is a justice budget that makes Norway a safer country. We can never be absolutely sure. It will never be a goal for any government, I hope. We have to live at risk in society, but the government is delivering here a budget that takes important steps to reduce risks and make the country safer. In front of us we have a police reform that the Justice Committee and then the Storting will spend a lot of time on. It will secure the country further. Another important issue we have in front of us is the news of crime prevention. It affects many fields in the justice sector. And it was with concern that we could not long ago read that Oslo prison is at risk of perhaps having to close one or more wards because of lack of maintenance. If that happens, the pressure in criminal care will increase further, the settlement queues will increase, and the care situation will be further exacerbated for police investigation. This is a result of a maintenance run for which our predecessors in the government offices are responsible. It's pushing the whole sector. We have to work on that. We're taking the first steps in this budget. Fortunately, the children's houses have had a lot of attention in this debate, and let me immediately say that I was injured to say that there was a 20-day deadline for court hearings in the event of sexual assault. Of course, the correct number is 14 days – so it's recorded. One of the main attacks from the Workers' Party is that the government does not earmark funds for the children's houses. We probably share the intentions, I experience in the debate, but for the sake of order I took a check on the justice budget for 2013, which is a red-green budget. There is no means for the operation of children's houses. So I can best not see that there's going to be any big political point. I repeat: I feel that we share our intentions in the debate. To the representative on stalking: there has been a hearing on this matter. It has been revealed that the law in force covers a great many of the problematic conditions, and that the Ministry of Justice is continuing to work on this, so here there are no conclusions drawn from the government. We're going to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1011	The working party has started the history of the red-green period. That's interesting enough, but the stories that are probably going to be the most interesting, are probably the stories that will hardly be told. Why increased the maintenance run for the railway to 17 billion. kr – 1 billion. kr per year – from 2005 to 2013? Why did the maintenance run for the national roads come up for approx. 40 B.C.E. kr before the voters got enough? Why has the maintenance shift in prison now reached 4 billion. kr and increased by at least 1 billion. kr during the red-green period? This is the history of arrears in important national infrastructure and a critical lack of value-reserving maintenance. This week, VG has told us that prisons in Oslo are likely to have to be shut down because of rats, fungi and moisture. The right-wing Party government has been given the inexhaustible task of repatriating important national infrastructure from kneeling and rigging us in a more sound way for the future. The government is offensive in criminal custody: 80 million. 41 closed places, establishment of youth prisons in the East, necessary specialisations in the Ila prison and 50 million. kr for exceptional maintenance. However, we should probably look at new models for more sound management of EBA – property, construction and civil engineering – in the justice sector. Here, there might be something to learn from the defence sector. From 2012 to 2013, the cows increased by 53 pst. I also expect that to be part of the red-green story. The government is working hard to put in place new prisons. Reconciliation agreements with the Netherlands, mentioned in the debate, and rapid implementation of penalties are important for the benefit of both the victim, society and the convicted individual. It is very positive that at least the Labour Party is not opposed to the idea of zone in the Netherlands. In general, the Labour Party's anti-justice policy strategy seems to be following government policies. It's not a stupid strategy – keep it going.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1022	The President does not know how much is in the position of the Justice Budget on Roads and Railways, but will recall Section 55 of the Stortingen Rules of Procedure, which states that the speaker should stick strictly to the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1025	Right-wing justice policies are based on everyday security needs of individuals. In order to achieve this, we are dependent on the presence and effectiveness of the police, the rapid and secure handling of criminal offences and the response to criminal law, which send out clear signals that undesirable behaviour is not tolerated. The justice sector has been treated in a vote over recent years. This state budget strengthens the entire criminal chain. The government strengthens both the police and the prosecution. And when these areas are strengthened, it is also necessary to strengthen the capacity of criminal justice. With a coverage today of 98 pst. I am pleased that the government in this budget is proposing 80,5 million. DKr for the construction of 41 new prison sites within existing walls, distributed across the country — and an attempt to reach agreement with the Netherlands on the rental of temporary prisons until we have built one or more new prisons in Norway. I can't leave it unsaid here today that the inheritance after the red-greens has cost us a lot. As early as 2006, a report from Multiconsult showed that prisons had a maintenance run of 2 billion. kr. The lack of political will to address this in the years that have passed has led to an increase of between 3.3 billion in 2013. kr and 4,4 brd. kr. This has now materialised in acute challenges, and we could now read in the media that after inspection in Oslo prison, a city councillor here in Oslo has to close down shower facilities, kitchens and toilets in three departments after finding large amounts of mold and moisture. This government takes responsibility and has proposed 50 million. kr for exceptional maintenance, in addition to the 80 million allocation. kr, which was set aside by State Building. Violence against children is a major social problem. I dare say that it is gratifying that we have had a marked increase in reports related to violence in close relations. In 2006, 81 cases of violence against children were reported, while 1,791 cases were reported in 2013. The State Children's House is an important player in the overall offer to children exposed to violence and abuse. It is gratifying that this budget will further strengthen children's homes. I have a expectation that the good and good engagement of the Minister of Justice will continue, that the Stortinget will be presented with proposals for legislative changes, and that the regulations on children's homes will be completed, so that the 14-day deadline for consultation can be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1036	We are facing a changing threat picture both in Norway and internationally. The threat picture has become both wider and deeper, and simply one can say that intentional and unintended events put our preparedness to the test. At the same time, several actors and groups may pose a future threat of terrorism. Earlier this week we discussed the defence budget here in this Chamber. The situation in Ukraine has led us to have a different relationship with Russia than a few years ago, but there is therefore no immediate danger of a bilateral military conflict with Russia in the north. To that end, we have far too many common interests in maintaining an international legal order. In many of the crises we see in the Middle East today, on the other hand, we do not have good enough answers, and the extremists are getting more upset. It is not just a threat to security in the Middle East, or in the region, but to the whole world. In the defence policy priorities we are making today, we need to focus both on the threat of terrorism and on the defence’s ability to assist in any terrorist attack on Norway, while focusing on our neighbourhoods. The threat picture today underlines that the danger of any terrorist attack is the most imminent. The debate and priorities should therefore reflect this fact. We need more knowledge about terrorism to meet this. For a number of years we have built a world-leading environment at the Defence Research Institute, in particular Islamist terrorism. There's an environment that's very good and that's world-leading, and the researchers are used in many contexts. I believe it is important that we strengthen this effort to combat radicalisation, but also in order to provide knowledge to both the police and the defence. Therefore, the Workers' Party will strengthen the research resources for research into violent extremism – including right-wing extremism. The overall research effort in the justice sector is, as is well known, low compared to other departments, so one is even more dependent on the strategic research funds allocated to the defence budget of the Defence Research Institute. We therefore believe that this should be strengthened. We are pleased that there is a common counter-terrorism centre in place, but we disagree with the priority that has been given to not having the same pressure on a common threat assessment by the NSM, the E-Service and the PST. It's good that we've got a common helicopter readiness, which is established on the back and in Bardufoss, and that this is strengthened, but the effort against radicalisation and for knowledge of it is too weak in this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1051	I will first allow myself a never so small greeting home to someone who has done an invaluable piece of work for the county I come from, but also to preserve our common close history. The gallery today has ten people from the Espeland concentration camp, who are present to see that we are voting to sell the former German prison camp Espeland for museum purposes. Espeland is located outside Bergen and is the last German prison camp in Europe, in fact, which is in its original state. For 20 years, the foundation has worked to get this done. They have been met with bureaucracy, they have been met with industriousness and not least with politicians' promises. It's nice to be able to stand here, at the end of the road, and be able to tell that the mission is finally done. The ferrets who have worked to get this done have given us the opportunity to share important history with new generations. It's the story of German occupation, German oppression, but also the story of resistance and struggle for our values. Then I just want to follow briefly the line that the representative of the Harek Rivers was on, because I actually want an answer – and even better: a confession – from the Labour Party representatives here today about the imprisonment. It is simply a very little pleasant surprise that is left to us. In the military, we called this a 'hidden gift' to the next coal. It may be a politically convenient thing to push maintenance costs ahead – pushing it down the road. You may not have the choice to clean up prisons in Norway, but the delays that have been made are going to cost the community perhaps billions of dollars. The problem is not only that the buildings are old and worn out, but at some point it will have real capacity consequences. In the worst case, we could risk that convicted people have to go free because of the decay that the red-greens have administered. Now, fortunately, there will be funds to reverse the course. Also here we have to do a proper shipper roof, but it's a change of course that's necessary, and that's haste.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1062	First of all, let me do something that I almost said was not going to do instead – namely, thank you for a good cooperation with the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, linked to the budget and the budgetary settlement. As it has been said earlier here, a very good budget became even a little bit better after that cooperation. Then I want to say that in general, it is an important part of the political everyday life to owe each other. It's actually maybe the least pleasant side of politics, and I blame myself for it all the time. But I have to say that a lot of this debate has gone on other things, namely looking at how to prioritise in the future in order to solve the challenges we face. I think that's important, but that doesn't mean we're going to forget the story that gives us the starting point today. I want to say that there is a lot of good work done by the previous government. Some of that we can build on in this budget, but very much is bets in a different way, with a different strength than before. I think that's important and correct. One of the examples of trying to create a strange political game is related to the Emergency Response Centre, where the representative Asphjell said that progress had been shot into the blue. I have no idea where Asphjell's representative got it from. What was the challenge was that the planning and location of the emergency centre on Alna was so poorly explored that it has really created major challenges in the continuation. That is why we have now followed the progress plan that the red-green government provided. At the same time, we have launched a KVU to ensure that if there are difficult, costly or complicating factors at Alna, you will be able to locate this elsewhere as soon as possible. It's taking challenges seriously. It is to ensure that, in the future, we will solve the challenges better than today. Then the representative was Vågslid within the reverse alarm of violence. It's a very important tool. And although I'm going to be careful to comment on the activities of the courts – because it's the courts that assess the cases in which this is to be done – I'm surprised that the extent of the use of that instrument is not greater than it is. That's why it's important that we follow closely how the courts practice this. If it's necessary, we'll have to bring it back to Stortinget, to clarify in which cases the Storting believes this is an important tool to use. Because the potential that I believe the Storting put into it when this was adopted, is clearly not exploited. Briefly within the representative Toppe, who was also in mental illness in criminal care: it's a very important focus. The Government is now working closely with the Ministry of Health and Welfare to ensure that they receive the offer they will have. But there is also a difference between mental illness in prisons. Some of the most mentally ill have been imprisoned in Norway without any kind of offer, without any possibility of aeration. It corrects this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1076	It would have been tempting to start by saying that the hearing of the representative Awake! is on a level with the damn ability to read the Bible — cf. her posts in place when it came to my assessments and priorities with regard to children's homes. Let me repeat that I was quite clear that I fully understand – and I think it is very good – that the Labour Party is doing what they are doing. My challenge back to the representative of Awake! was that if you have a pot of money and you take it off and say that this is going to go to one place, you have to give priority at the expense of something else. It would have been nice to hear what the representative Vågslid and the Workers' Party down priorities. That was only what was in my question. That you don't want to talk about it, I take note, but there's also a political signal in that piece. Then to the representative Asphjell, who talked about the raisin in the sausage. I don't know what kind of sausage he has his raisin in – I kept saying, if that's what I'm allowed to say – but the record and my reference point about being tough on those tough ones, so I've picked up from former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum, who pretty often used to humiliate his policy. Those who challenge us the most must endure the toughest consequences. We're going to have a completely different approach to the weakest. That's what I'm talking about. The Minister of Justice was here now. In the case of the weakest of the weakest, e.g. in Ila and other prisons, we have a duty to take care of them as much as we have to demand of those who challenge us in the worst. That's what the whole thing is called, and that's what it's all about. This dynamics lie and balance different relationships that need to be taken into account. Then I look forward – as more people here have said – to the debate on any agreement with the Netherlands, and how it will be met in Stortinget. It is a fact today that we have a lag on the maintenance side that is larger than large. We are still struggling with settlement capacity, both normally and in terms of police custody. If there is an opportunity to rent capacity in the Netherlands, are we going to say no because it will break Norwegian tradition? Should we say no because it may make it more difficult to maintain any contact with Norway where it is natural and required? Or are we going to say yes, we dare to think new, because the solutions we've looked at now have not worked? When politicians – at my discretion – end up taking on the responsibility of taking on the fact that there are societal challenges that have not been solved, it is ultimately about one factor, and that is knowledge. What kind of knowledge do you want to focus on to create a solution? Of course, you could say no, it can't – it's been tried, but it didn't work out. Or you could say, well, we have a problem, but we have to solve it. No one else has done it before us, because you haven't had the will to try it. My ambition is that the new government should do things that haven't been done before, as long as it's sound and it's done in a way that makes you have legitimacy, you have a legal basis. There's nothing that suggests that being stuck in an old ditch is a future solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1089	Violence in close relations has been a topic in very many articles in the debate here today, and I think that is very positive. Then I sincerely believe that the representatives of the Workers' Party have helped to clarify that this is a problem that needs to be resolved across the board. I would like to refer to Tajik's first post, where she said that the Workers' Party's proposal for doubling the amount of cooperation between the police and the municipality will be voted down. It's actually a shame, because well-functioning SLT cooperation can prevent many things. I can give an example from my own municipality from the time I was a municipal politician. The A and B gang tried with some long fangs to the Drammen. They were effectively stopped almost at the municipal border by the police. It was included in the SLT cooperation, the municipality put in leisure activities, and the A and B gang never got a foothold in the Drammen. Another example: almost 20 years ago, we had a joint violence project. We map: Who are the victims? Where does that happen? When does that happen? Violence in close relationships was part of that picture. The Drammen municipality became the first municipality with an agreement with Alternative to Violence. I believe that these methods are still relevant, although the issues may change. Unfortunately, some issues do not change. Then I have a little comment on the two posts from Anders B. Werp. The Labour Party has also proposed, as last year, to strengthen health centres and school health services by 200 million. kr, because it includes, among other things: is important in order to detect violence in close relationships at an early stage. As a former municipal politician, I have, in principle, an ingrained scepticism for ringing – as a municipal politician, it is easily perceived as basting and binding. But I'm for the topic we're talking about here: violence in close relationships. What we saw was that when the Stoltenberg II government in 2014 turned 180 million off. For the same purpose — health centres and school health services — the nurses’ association subsequently examined how this money was used. Of the 180 million. kr was less than half used for school health services and health stations. That is why I am very much in favour of earmarking the money we need to combat violence in close relationships, both in the area of prevention in other departments, in the area of prevention measures such as the SLT in the Ministry of Justice budget, and in the area of strengthening children's housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1102	The representative of Haarek Rivers has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1105	I feel called to note two aspects: one that is not mentioned, that is the great effort being made in the field of civil protection: new rescue helicopters – 16 pieces. – Emergency networks will be completed in 2015 and the entire civil protection force will be exercised in 2015. The second relationship is the timeless and universal judicial policy statement ‘equality of the law’. I noticed that the president pointed out that the signatories were outside today's agenda. It may be, but that should apply to all the representatives. The representative Trettebergstien used his posts for temporary employment, and I can't see that it belongs within today's text.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1110	The President is concerned that this is a matter of justice policy, and that the road sector may have been a little off the agenda today, and will refer again to Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1113	It was the representative of Elvenes who made me take the floor again in the debate, and then there is also a bit of the smell of fairy tale that makes me do it. It was pointed out by Riveres that the Workers' Party is now very pleased with what the government is actually putting forward and relying only on it. I was sitting and reflecting a little on it: Is it that wrong? Because I feel very much that you agree with a lot of the big lines of justice policy. I say so that the current government too leans on much of the work that the previous government did. And I'm going to be so clear to say that a lot of what the Stoltenberg government did, it leaned a lot on that last government back there, which the Right-Party actually did. Take, for example, the police. If you're going to get more policemen in the streets, I think there's two important steps you have to take. You have to increase the recording at the Police College, it was significantly done by the Red-Greens, to over 700. As far as I can see, there's no further increase. And you have to finance new jobs that come out. That was also the reason why we put more money in the police budgets under the government of Stoltenberg, very much of the same grips. It was just going to be missing if we didn't applaud actually continuing that line. The same can be said of cows: when we entered the government offices in 2005, we had a pay queue of well over 2,000 judges. We could spend a lot of time on it in this debate, but what's interesting is, what do we do in the future? If you can continue some of the work done earlier, we have to be happy about it. The fact that the government of Stoltenberg managed to reduce it to zero for a period of time was because of the construction of new prisons, both built new prisons and expanded capacity, built Bruvoll, expanded Hof, I can mention many places where you just did that job. And then we added money for maintenance, it was done in the same size as what we see the government parties now propose. But it is quite clear that the maintenance challenges are great, and the efforts that are now being put on the table will not be enough. So if you're really going to be able to do priorities and think that the justice sector is important -- the support of a lot of civil society -- you could imagine we're going to use maybe 10 pst. of the property tax relief proposed by the government to take up the maintenance allowance in Norwegian prisons. Then we would really have been able to make an effort in this area, but it's about priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1124	First I'd like to say a little bit about women. They're a challenge to criminal justice. I see that in the budget proposition, women have almost disappeared. They are mentioned only once, and then under the chapter on custody, where it is said that few women are sentenced to custody. You can ask yourself the question of whether this is about the fact that there are only men in political management. I record that the criticism that comes from the government parties is mainly about maintenance and capacity. There is little coming from the government parties, I believe, which suggests that they have a vision for the justice policy we are going to have in the future. We have a government with a Minister of Justice who has been sitting for 422 days. The first thing the government did was cut the maintenance budget by 10 million. kr. So this government says that we've been hungry for the maintenance items. Well, I hear that Leirstein thinks he started at zero in terms of penetration, and then I realize that 50 million. kr is quite a lot – an allocation we otherwise support. But after the history of the Right Party and the Advance Party, this post should have been three or four times as big. With a total budget greater than ever — greater than any government has ever had — I cannot, with all due respect, see that there is any special hallelujah character of the appropriations for maintenance. Then I just want to refer to Ebbesen, as I think had a very good post about children and about focusing on prevention. It was shown to the number 80,5 million. NOK, which is allocated to the design of these 41 places. On the Justice budget, it's only 20.5 million. kr. The rest of the money comes from other budgets. So it's 41 new places, but it's growing. It is cut in funds for fines, for example, funds proposed by the previous government. It is a reversal of the system of electronic control. The cows are growing. There are no prison plans. In the field by area, those who now have power in a judicial sector they are responsible for, under half of what the previous government did, at the same time complaining about what the previous government actually did. The fine-sone queue, for example, has increased — from 2 500 to 3000 people in one year. For 422 days, major issues have been put on hold – preparedness, police reform, capacity – in a government with more money than ever. 8 B.C.E. kr has gone to tax cuts. It is a reality that the Minister of Justice has not got any more into his field — and has actually got less into the deal, because the bureaucracy increased from 0.5 pst. to 0.6 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1139	Since it may seem that the debate is coming to an end, I would like to thank the Committee for a good and committed debate and cross-political agreement on a very large number of points. It's good to see. Nevertheless, there are some areas in which we separate layers, and that I would like to mention in this article. The way this justice budget has been made is a little bit like getting a silhouette in Christmas gifts, and then you're told that this isn't a silhouette; it's actually a down jacket. But no matter how much you look at that still, it won't be a down jacket because one calls it a down jacket. Even if you call the budget formidable and historic, it's not necessarily that. One of these speakers has produced it as if it were even more interesting for this judicial budget, but I have registered that the police management team, for example. have gone back on what they have said that the budget for justice is a good budget. They themselves write in their journal that there are words that they have to bite into, and that they are concerned about the operation, as I am. It is also not exciting to see the partner organisations working against election in close relationships, and especially against children. We've been looking through media lookups lately. So the government council and I had a reply about the pay level of the POD leaders. It may seem to the Council of State that this is a level of pay that is required to get the best leaders. I agree that one needs the best leaders. I don't necessarily agree that this salary level is what defines how to get the best leaders. I'm concerned that it's going to eat up the general budget. I ask: will the Minister of Justice do something about it in order to avoid the general involvement of the police being eaten up, or is it such that the POD police leaders are going to get down jackets, while the police officers are going to get quietongs? Then there are many words about reconciliation queues. The reconciliation queue was dramatically reduced during Stoltenberg II. I am very excited about what the reconciliation queue will look like when this government is done with its work. Currently, the work to bring down the queue is quite weak. The annual average of Stoltenberg II was 93 places per year, while in the budget for this year there are 41 places. It's less than half as much as Stoltenberg II delivered this year. 41 places is a good styling, and that's useful. It warms when it's needed, but it's still not a down jacket. It is also symptomatic that it is the Storberget and the Labour Party that talk about, for example. the use of conflict advice and the importance of it, while the Right and Progress Party and the Minister of Justice are talking about closed prisons. I want to remind you that it's not possible to get caught in a safe society. One must also focus on the content of the soning, alternative forms of reconciliation, alternative conflict resolution as well. I have expectations that the staging message that is being notified, which comes in the next week, will take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1156	The representative, Lene Vågslid, has had the word twice in the past and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1159	I'll be brief. The claim that funds were not earmarked or provided to children’s homes in the 2014 budget – that’s wrong. In the proposition put forward by Stoltenberg, it was clearly mentioned under budgetary priorities that it is seen of 60 million. kr for 2014. It was for two new children's houses, and it was for strengthening the capacity. Now we are going to highlight the strengthening that is in line with the decision made in this Chamber in June to strengthen the capacity of children's houses by earmarking 100 million. kr. The representative Ellingen can take it quite calmly when it comes to his concern for my hearing. It's all right. What I'm registering is that the representative Ellings doesn't want to answer my question, given that the budget agreement also led to nearly 100 million dollars. SEK – 90 million. kr – for children’s homes. That's what they say, on a chapter of 13 billion. I will accept that 100 million kroner. kr shall go to the children's home. Maybe we can cut something in the down jackets, as the representative Tajik mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1168	With regard to the discussion on earmarking, I think there are several people who need to read the old budget proposals a little bit more carefully. I would like to say to the representative of Storberget, who started by asking if it is really so wrong that the Labour Party agrees with the government on the budget. No, it's definitely not wrong, it's very good. What's special is that the representatives of Storberget, Henriksen and Tajik, the latter with an equation related to down jackets and stilts, or pantyhose, later on, like they do so much more than they do. The reality is that when Storberget e.g. I'm talking about taking 10 pst. of the reliefs in the taxes on wealth and applied to the maintenance of prisons, the Workers' Party could propose it in its alternative state budget. But they don't. Although they cut the taxes on wealth, they do not give priority to the field of justice. That's why I think it's going to be a bit strange to end this debate when the opposition says that the government is building its work on what the former government has done. All the old stuff is really built on the policies of the former government. Some of it is, some of it has been important to achieve the goals you have, for example: on the admission to the Police College. But there's a lot of other things that aren't at all. So the working party has many, many billions of dollars to distribute in its alternative state budget, but they still choose to give priority to things other than bets in the field of justice. I think that's okay, but I don't think it's okay to try to pretend that something else is the case. I think we get to be in the priorities we have, whether we're in position or in opposition. It is simply not a matter of saying that the government could prioritise this much more when they themselves do not do so in their own budgets. We all agree that there is a need to secure more places in the criminal justice system. There is a particular need for closed prisons. What is challenging about closed prisons is that they are not built overnight, it takes some time. The previous government has launched a quality assurance project in some areas. This government has followed up some of them, and we come back with a comprehensive criminal health report before Christmas. I think we should be honest with each other and stand in what we are actually proposing – whether we are in government or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1180	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1183	It is at the Council of State in connection with a new emergency centre. I refer to the budget proposal, where the Council of State itself writes that Alna is a well-suited alternative for a new emergency centre. But despite that, the Council of State continues to explore new options. Since there is no mention of it in the 2015 budget, it will mean that it is either shot out in the blue, that the Council of State has not won out in the budgetary negotiations with the government, or that he cannot say anything today about when we may be able to present a matter relating to this important issue. So to the representative Ellingen and this with the raisin in the sausage: what I referred to was the speech of the Council of State at the National Council of the Police Federation, when he was going to explain how much work he had done with criminal care, with good capacity, and that moving prisoners to the Netherlands really was the raisin in the sausage that made way in the well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1195	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1198	I record that the representative Awake! still has a selective memory. I'm going to lay it down for now. The big discussion now is about who is the best witness of truth to reality. It's probably a fact that when the Workers' Party honors its own excellence, they should perhaps take all the elements with them. There is no doubt that former Minister of Justice Storberget has a Norwegian record in the case of a compensation rebate. There is no doubt that the special discount that the Bondevik II government and the Workers' Party made was the release of time for people who should have been in jail. When facts are to be put on the table, you should be relatively repulsive, at my discretion. It is also the case that when Storberget and his associates – if it is allowed to say so – tell us about the efforts that have been made, there has probably been a very big difference between the needs of the criminal services and the solutions that have been provided. I have perceived that the last Stoltenberg government did, primarily to bet on opening open spaces: much cheaper and faster, but in return much more expensive and therefore more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1205	The representative Anders B. Werp has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1208	We're heading towards the end, and it may not be time or place to talk about the consensus when we're actually growing the disagreement, but I find that the government, in cooperation with the cooperation parties, is presenting a budget that makes the country safer. I'm glad. So to the representative, Mr. Vågslid: I said it emphatically. I had one budget by hand. That was the budget for 2013, not 2014. I do not doubt what the representative Vågslid said, but in the red-green budget for 2013, the operation of the children's houses is not mentioned by earmarked funds at all. To the Emergency Response Centre and to the representative of Asphjell, I am surprised that there is such a high profile in a case where the previous Minister of Justice put on information relevant to the project, without informing the Stortinget, while the Stortinget had cases for treatment that went to the Emergency Response Centre. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1217	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1220	Had I had a beard, I would have smiled a little under the Minister of Justice's posts, but I can't do that. From our side, we do not complain as much about the situation as the government parties do now, and the Minister of Justice and the government spend less money on the table than the previous government did. Where we are separated, in terms of content, prevention, women and volunteers, and we put more money on the table in this budget than the government does. That's the facts. We're going to wind up the discount that Mr. Ellingen spoke about. We make sure to have both a track that's about content and a track that's about capacity. We want to build, get ahead of the prison building, before what this government is doing, unless money is less than what this government has to spend in total. That's the dividing lines. We want to use funds for well-being and services, not for tax cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1225	The representative of Hadia Tajik has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1228	I'm glad that at the bottom of the debate we've got cats out of the bag. The Minister of Justice also reveals his view of justice when he does not see the context of justice policy, or the wholeness of what he should expect to be the work of the government. As the debate has shown, the Labour Party is thinking of healing, and we are working for healing. It has representatives from the Municipal and Administrative Committee, from the Labour and Social Committee and from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. We have worked closely with the Family and Culture Committee, with the Church, Education and Research Committee and the other committees, because this is about the long lines. What we see in the government's budget is that they add up to a cut in taxes. It means that one has less money for prevention, but as it says in the leader of the last edition of the magazine Police Forum: ‘Personally, I can easily accept a charge on both caravans and boat engines if it can provide the police with sufficient resources to conduct good investigations.’ They see the need for healing, and they demand the need for healing. When we get 3.4 billion. kr more to the municipalities, it is a force for prevention. It also has an impact on the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1239	Finally, the government agrees that it is important to think widely when thinking about the entire field of justice, including prevention. That is why it is also a good municipality arrangement this time. But what's my point is that the posts that have been held by different representatives from the Workers' Party are characterized by the fact that a person wants to bet more on, for example. Criminal services. The Great Mountain said 10 pst. the tax relief on wealth could have led to a reduction in the maintenance of the criminal justice system. So the Labour Party can propose this in its alternative budget, but it must be allowed to point out that it is despite the fact that they have more money to go with than this government, because we have different priorities – we have not prioritised it. That's what was initially my point in the previous article. When I then heard the representative Henriksen say that the Labour Party does not complain as much about the situation as the government, I think you should go through what was said in the post to the representative Henriksen earlier today. There is definitely no rose painting of the situation, either in criminal custody or elsewhere, that characterises the Workers' Party's posts here today. I think it's nice that at the end there was some temperature, which shows that there's still a good deal of disagreement in justice policy, but a lot of agreement on the main lines. So on behalf of the government parties and I also assume the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is behind this budgetary agreement, it is good to note that along the big lines there is a great deal of consensus. Also along the major priority lines, the government and the cooperation parties are at a very good level in the area of the justice and preparedness budget. We're going to be happy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1248	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1262	The Committee has examined Prop. 120 L, on changes in the criminal enforcement law, i.e. The Infoflot system. Of course, I thank the Committee for a good job. It is a unanimous committee that supports the changes in this proposition. In its proposal, the Ministry proposes a new Chapter 1 B to provide a clearer basis for the processing of personal data by the criminal services in the Infoflot system. This bill regulates: in which cases criminal law enforcement can process personal data in the Infoflot system where, without prejudice to professional secrecy, criminal justice can provide information to the police and the prosecution authority where criminal law enforcement is obliged to inform the data subject of the processing of data relating to the data subject’s right of access to data subject’s data protection control of the registration, including verification of compliance with procedural rules; The proposal also contains proposals to repeal the electronic control system as a safeguard surrogate. The Infoflut system was established in 2005. Prior to this, the exchange of information between the police and criminal services was informal and varied. The background to formalisation was an increasing need for exchange of information between the police and the criminal services due to an increase in threats related to organised crime, as well as several individualpisods related to a lack of information exchange. The Infoflot Committee was set up by the Ministry of Justice and Police in May 2010. The Judicial Committee points out that the sample has reviewed the Infoflot system, made assessments and proposed new rules for the processing of information by the criminal services in the Infoflot system. I am referring to the fact that the matter has been discussed widely before it has now been dealt with in Stortinget. The Committee notes that cooperation and exchange of information between the police/prosecution authority and the criminal services are an important prerequisite for preventing, preventing and combating serious crime. The Committee notes that it is necessary to provide a clearer basis for the criminal enforcement act on the processing of personal data by the criminal justice system in the Infoflot system, in order to ensure that criminal justice performs its job in the context of the human rights and international data protection obligations of Norway. This means that the processing of personal data must be governed by law and that this legal right must be sufficiently precise.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1297	I would like to thank the case spokesman for a good review of the significance of this for the Infoflut system. It's also very much in agreement. I take the word only to point out that the Workers' Party – I have been allowed to say this also on behalf of the Centre Party – will vote against II on the suspension of the system of electronic control as a protection substitute. It is very regrettable that the government will cancel this arrangement. Norway has a number of destinations on custody, and this is provided by the criminal law § 188. For example, the Court of First Instance may: decide that the sight is produced for the police at specified times, or that one cannot leave a particular location. The Court of First Instance may also decide that the sightings shall supply passports, driver cards, seafaring books, certificates of service or equivalent. Instead of imprisonment, the court may decide to reside in an institution or municipal housing unit if the institution or municipality agrees. Electronic control as a surrogate of custody is thus in line with other means of securing custody than imprisonment. The Varettelsinstitut is under constant criticism because of the negative impact it has on the prison. The fact that custody is being held for too long in police detention and that there is widespread use of restrictions in isolation is a repetition of criticism of Norwegian prison practices. It is a criticism that the Labour Party and the Central Party take very seriously. I would also like to add that the care institution is closely associated with the problems of housing queues and the lack of prison capacity. The abolition of these destinations could therefore lead to poorer prison capacity over time. Otherwise I will refer to the department's assessments in Prop. 71 L for 2012–2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1310	This is a matter with which the Council of State has been in charge in its former function at Stortinget, and which is fundamentally important, at my discretion. The fact that the matter comes back to Stortinget today, and that you get a better legal basis, is, in my opinion, completely required, because it has been a little vague earlier – and that concluded with the selection in its time. At the same time, after reading the proposition, I have some questions that I hope the Council of State will be able to comment on today's article. The fact that criminal services have access to information that they can share with the police, in order to prevent and combat crime, I think is very positive. The challenge is what kind of boundaries are in here. Does it mean, for example, that if a former State Council visits an inmate in a Norwegian prison, all they're talking about will be available, and it's up to the Criminal Service to assess how much of what you might share with the police, if you think it's timely? Well, at least it's good to know about it. Another thing is what kind of — if in some way — those who may be visiting a prison will be aware that information that they share can be used further by other public institutions. As I said, in a system like ours, where we have a high degree of transparency and a system based on opposition and not self-incrimination, it is important to make sure that the legal basis is correct. That is why I look forward to hearing if the Council of State has good answers to this. That the law is required, and that we need it, is raised above any doubt, but at the same time I'm excited to hear what kind of boundaries lie, seen from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1319	Let me first say that we from the SV's side will also vote against the proposal to abolish electronic control as a protective surrogate. I thought it was unfortunate that it was done, and I joined the foundation that the representative Tajik gave in his post. But what I'm going to spend most of the time on is the proposal of the so-called Infoflot system. It is important to establish rules for the handling of personal data by the criminal services and how they can be used. It is therefore good that such legislation is proposed. But even if we stress the importance of it, some concerns about the proposal make us vote against it, and we make our own proposals, which I will come back to. There are two main concerns. The first concerns the change in the purpose and work of criminal services contained in the proposal, where it will now be such that, in addition to preventing and preventing serious crime, one must also fight against it. It's a turn-around in criminal services' work tasks that we think require a completely different principleal approach and thought-through before one concludes with it. That means that one should go from carrying out punishment and rehabilitation to fighting crime as a whole as a task. I would say that, in addition to the challenges related to resource use and the marginal rise, there may also be confusion about what is prevention and what is research. I also suggest that the Association of Lawyers has previously stated that one should address the consequences of the extension of their work tasks more precisely before accepting it. The second concerns uncertainties in the proposal, which at least may present data protection challenges that one should consider more carefully. The proposal therefore states that if ‘there is reason to believe’ that inserts or persons who have been in contact with, or are seeking contact with, a insert will make or contribute to the actions described, it may provide a basis for the registration and disclosure of information. On the other hand, the way in which a person should verify the information requirements that ‘provides reason to assume’ is quite unclear. In my view, this is quite a central question, because ‘there is reason to assume’, based on not one who has committed crime, but one who is in contact with those in criminal care, at least opens up to relatively wide interpretations if one is not accurate and has a careful follow-up. It is also, we believe, an insufficient explanation of what the 'other serious crime' contained in the proposal requires more precise clarification. We just have to remember that we'll then open up to a whole new group, those who work in the criminal services, and give them access to a significant amount of information. We also give them the possibility to deliver them, but – in our opinion – good enough clarification and delimitation of what should apply. On that basis, we have two proposals. The second proposal has the background that we probably have reason to expect that there will be a majority for the committee to be set up here in the Chamber. The first proposal is: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a new proposal for the regulation of the processing of personal data by criminal services in the Infoflut system, where: – the concept of serious crime is clearly clarified – with clear requirements for the verification of data prior to their registration – where changes in the tasks of criminal services have been more fully addressed’. In addition, proposal No. Article 2 is replaced by the following: ‘The Government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the new legislation during the period, in order to assess the impact of the legislative changes in view of the role of criminal justice and the legal certainty of prisoners.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1350	The representative, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1353	As the representative of Ellingen was in his post, it was actually the representative of Ellingen who made me aware of this issue during the last growing-up period. I had a completely different hat on. There is no doubt that there has been a long time to have a legal regulation of the Infoflu register and its use. It's important to have that home in place. There has been a thorough process in advance, and I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind the vote on that point, although I now hear that SV has some objections that lead to them voting against it. In that perspective, it is also important to bear in mind that, in the basis of law, it is also provided that any further restrictions and limits on what is contained in the proposition are to be laid down. With regard to Ellingen’s question about a previous government council – if I did not perceive the issue wrong – contact with an inmate can be registered and used in this register, the answer is that former government councils in Norway are treated in the same way as all other people, fortunately. Of course, if the purpose of the contact is to commit serious crime, it will also be included in this register. But there are quite strict limits to what it takes to register, and there are also some overall considerations about it in the proposition. It's not that it's just about crime, but it's about serious crime – I think in the proposition we also use the term'serious crime'.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1362	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1376	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1390	The Committee has had Prop. 115 L for treatment. It contains three important adjustments to the Road Traffic Act. One is to make it easier to control the impact of drug driving, the other to reduce the waiting time for vehicle checks at State Road Service Stations by introducing a fee. In addition, the legislation on electric bicycles is being amended, which may hopefully lead to a larger electricity bicycle market in the future. These are small, fine adjustments that we are adopting today. Then I can make the president and the other interested people aware that we have a split proposition. The point concerning the processing of person-sensitive data has been taken into account in a separate proposition pending clarifications relating to whether it has practical implications for the police. There was a discussion that appeared on the tap, with slightly different signals from the police and the department. But nothing should be unclear in that matter. Our intention is not to make practical changes for the police in their working day. It is our goal to establish a legal framework for the processing of person-sensitive information. It is to get the legal footwork in place, and it should not lead to a more difficult working day for the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1397	The working party joins in the case of the matters we agree to here. We think it is good proposals that will simplify the work. However, until the matter that the case-rapporteur was in at the end, related to the matter we want to postpone, i.e. the amendment to Section 43(b) of the Road Traffic Act, I would like to comment on something. It is a matter that has been known for quite a long time. This was a very big topic at the 2012 National Police Association meeting in Molde, and we have received a number of consultation opinions both from Kripos, from the police and from the road authorities related to the change that had been proposed. The police have clearly stated that this will hinder their work, not least that relating to the possibility for the police to obtain access to the licence and motor vehicle registers. It is important when we are going to have such changes as this, that it does not interfere with the work of the police, they must be able to carry out their activities in a good way. Therefore, the Workers' Party has been concerned that the police should continue to have the same ongoing applicant access to the driving licence and motor vehicle register as they have previously had. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to make a simple adjustment to the bill, and in line with what the police have recorded, this can be done by simply adding to the new Section 43(b) of the Road Traffic Act: ‘for police purposes where there is a need for access, as defined in Section 2 paragraph of the Police Register Act. 13.’» I think it is regrettable that in the very last hour, when the Minister for Transport in two headlines in the VG raised doubts about the application of the new law, we see that this is a different result, and that it is the media that should govern the matter to be promoted in a legally good way. That's why the Workers' Party will ask for this new proposition to come back quickly, so that we can clarify this in a good way, and that we get a decision in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1406	I would also like to make some comments about this. I might also say that it's unfortunate that we end up splitting up, but I want to praise the case rapporteur and the rest of the committee that it actually does when there's uncertainty, because we can rather take a little self-criticism, several of us, because we didn't react more clearly, and I haven't seen so many comments from others either, until that look came into the VG. So I want to say that what the committee has done, I think it's a trick, so we can get a clarification. You can imagine a case where a dangerous killer is on the run in the middle of the night. Is it appropriate then that the police can check whether he has a car, or what kind of car he has, so that you can stop him? Yes, of course it will be, we all mean that. Therefore, it would not be quite right if the police could check the population register to see if you are married, or if you might have kids, if you have just moved, etc., while you can't check what kind of car you have. I see the hearing opinions from, for example: The Police Directorate and the Kripos, which are clear that it could damage the investigation and identification of the perpetrator of rape cases and other sexual crimes involving the vehicle. The possibility of direct appeal against the driving licence and motor vehicle register is lost in the operational investigation of criminal proceedings, etc. So I think what the committee has done makes sense. We get a clarification from the state council, and then we treat the matter in a good way when we get to the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1413	In danger of repeating myself: The whole intention of the proposal that related to personal data has just been to collect a lot of loose threads and a very fragmentary code today and to create a clear legal base, so that the police's processing of personal data is for safe legal reasons. It must be commended to the ministry that they have seen, and that they have wanted to do something about it. How things have been made in the media, it's not very easy to pass a sentence over here from the pulpit. But I think it's worth noting that the Minister of Transport's central message has always been that no change in practice is intentional. It's a very good clarification, which is also completely in line with the expectations we've had from the committee, but we can't operate on the basis of media communication either. For safety reasons, we have only asked for this in the form of letters. I think this is going to be landed in a proper and proper way, and there is no one, either in the department or in the committee, who wants to prevent the police when they are hunting for lawbreakers and others who want to put behind locks and beats.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1422	I would like to thank the case spokesman for a smooth handling of a matter that raises a number of questions, and thank the committee for being able to deal with it in such a way that the part for which questions were raised could be postponed in this way. The back cover for the treatment is, as it has been mentioned, a number of statements – especially in the newspaper VG, but also some other places – there, among others. the Minister for Transport, through his or her ulcers, doubts as to what was the intention behind the proposals, particularly relating to the processing of personal data. One of the quotations that the Minister for Transport stood for was that ‘it cannot be such that a police officer can sit in his office and snoop in the registers almost for fun’, and that there was therefore a need to present this proposal. It was a quote that the Police Union reacted very strongly to. Sigve Bolstad reacted strongly. Ketil Rekdal at Hordaland PF reacted and called designated ‘dream’. I agree with the Police Union in this matter, and what I am curious about, and which I could hope one could use this exchange of words for, is whether the Minister of Justice could have told whether he is in agreement with the Police Joint Union, or whether he is in agreement with the Minister of Transport. Because here we haven't heard what he means.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1431	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1445	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1454	The Committee has examined a proposal for a representative to amend Section 3 of the Law on the Enforcement of Penalties, etc., which deals with the responsibility of the Criminal Service for the care of children of convictions or prisoners, etc. First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. We probably all agree on the goal, even though we don't agree on the way to the goal. So on now, I argue for the view of the Right and the majority in this matter. The proposal from the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party is aimed at legislating the responsibility of the Criminal Service for the care of children of convictions or prisoners. The proposal for a representative is almost in line with the proposal sent out by the Red-Green Government at its 2011 hearing, with a deadline for consultation in 2012. After that it was quiet from the red-green government on this proposal until they now promote it as a representative proposal. It's a strange way of running politics. If they did not agree to implement the law while they were in the government offices, why is it necessary to promote a bill now, when the criminal services themselves state that within a short time it will be appointed as child-responsible at all units in the criminal care regions? The objective of the Right is to ensure that the prisoner’s need for contact with his or her children in the best possible way. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that imprisonment or other criminal execution of a parent or other caregiver has a significant impact on children. The stigmatisation to which children with parents in prison may be exposed in kindergarten, school or other parts of the child’s social circle and networks is part of this picture. One of the dilemmas of punishment is that it has unintended effects on persons other than the convicted one. Therefore, the right is particularly concerned that decisions relating to convictions or prisoners who are caring for or regularly associating with their children should, in particular, take into account the best interests of the child. The Ministry of Justice also points out in its letter to the Committee that they are very concerned about maintaining and strengthening the legal status of children as members of the judiciary and prisoners in prison. Furthermore, work has begun to develop guidelines describing the duties and responsibilities of child-responsors, as well as a ‘training package’ which is planned to be implemented in the spring of 2015 under the auspices of the Educational Centre of Criminal Welfare. This shows that the implementation of child-responsors is well under way. When the legislative proposal mentioned earlier was out for consultation, it stated, among other things. The criminal services region east considered the region to be the current § 3 of the Penal Code and § 1-3 of the regulation of the law as covering the responsibilities of the criminal services to children of prisoners. Right-wing policy is based on trust. We are confident that criminal services will carry out their tasks – regardless of which – for the best of both prisoners and their relatives, and not least that they will contribute to the maximum rehabilitation of the prisoners to a well-functioning life after an end of reconciliation. It also means ensuring that the prisoners have the necessary contact with their children — on the child’s premises. The right considers, therefore, that once criminal services themselves have come as far as they are concerned, a regulation of the child-care system in criminal matters will give a clear and rapid signal that the child’s legal position should be strengthened. A law will take time to implement, and we also assume that those who both work and receive services within this field will retrieve their information from both the legal text and regulations. The handling of this important task by criminal authorities also shows that they do not need a law to carry out their job for the benefit of the prisoners and their relatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1473	I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement that child contacts are important. In the debates following the two interpellations I have had about it, all parties have stated that children of prisoners should be given better legal protection. It's a pleasure. The entire committee agrees that children of prisoners are a special group of children, who are hit hard when their mother or father is sentenced to imprisonment. We agree that the Convention on the Rights of the Child should apply, and there is no disagreement that the Directorate of Criminal Affairs should provide good information on the child’s rights to employees in the service. Crime prevention has made a formidable effort to improve the conditions for children of prisoners in prisons. It deserves employees and the directorate all credit for it. Now there are child contacts in almost all prisons in Norway. That's great! We also agree that there should be a strong and unambiguous signal that the legal position of the child should be strengthened. But we're separating layers when it comes to assessing clarity, responsibility and non-discrimination. We are involved in legislation. The Children’s Ombudsman, in his reply to the hearing, says that having a statutory act is a clearer signal than having a regulatory attachment. The Labour Party agrees. Regulations may be amended without the Storting being briefed. It makes it difficult for policy-makers to have the necessary responsibility for this group of children. Political responsibility becomes clearer by lawmaking. The Labour Party does not believe that legal texts are rarely read, as the majority do. On the contrary, we believe that a legislative act will give employees of other agencies, non-governmental organisations and not least prisoners and their relatives a clearer signal and make knowledge more accessible to the public than a regulation. For the Workers' Party, this is also a matter of non-discrimination. Some 9,000 children have one of the parents in prison each year. These children are no less vulnerable than children of parents with severe drug addiction, mental or somatic illness. They're not as many, maybe, but the more important it is that they get our attention. The size has unanimously taken similar responsibility before. In June 2008, a unanimous Health and Social Committee stated: ‘The Committee is pleased that it is now set up to give children legal rights to follow up as relatives. This is a theme that has been raised several times. It is quite obvious that a number of dependent children need a special follow-up, whether their parents are mentally ill, have drug problems or any other disease that could seriously affect the child.’ Furthermore, a co-opponent committee no longer ruled out: ‘The Committee requests that an assessment be made of further measures that could safeguard the rights of children as relatives.’;» I record that today's majority have assessed the matter differently, that Harald Tom Nesvik, who is the group leader in the Progress Party, has probably turned around, and that the Christian People's Party has left Laila Davøy's political line in terms of rights to children as relatives. That's very regrettable. Right-wing Harek Rivers stated in the daily newspaper in December that the prisoners are not ill. He further stated: ‘You should not make children of prisoners a more special group than they are. They are today well cared for by the legislation in force.’ By their play, I mean the Right makes children of prisoners less special than they are. The working party thinks we can do more, and we think we have to do more. Besides, it's completely wrong. Prison inmates have a lot of morbidity, more than others. Their children have bigger challenges, more than others, both health, economic and educational. If this is the opinion underlying the Right's position, it shows a great lack of facts. It's a shame – not for the Right, but for the kids. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice made it clear that the Stortinget could decide, although I wish that the Minister of Justice, who is concerned about children's relationships, and who are concerned about children who suffer, had chosen to show more clarity in this matter. He could follow up Harald Tom Nesvik's and the Protest's stand from the previous period. But maybe it's the result of a two-party – one party and one party – that's not always united in terms of the position of justice policy. But when that's said, it's good that we get a prescription party. It's a step in the right direction. This is a clear – albeit not the most obvious – signal to children and parents in prison. The size says this: you have requirements for organisation, follow-up, coordination and information. That's good, and there we agree, all parties. I address the proposal that the minority has put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1514	The representative of Kari Henriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1517	I'm glad that the representative Henriksen ended up there. I feel this is an important decision and really don't need to make big polemics about whether one is in favour of a regulation or a legislative change. I was going to praise the representative of Kari Henriksen, who repeatedly in interpellations and in other matters has clarified how important it is to take care of the children of prisoners, who are a vulnerable group, and who are hit hard when mother or father is sentenced to prison sentences. I would also like to commend the rapporteur, Mr Ebbesen, who has done a good job in the Committee. Criminal services are responsible for taking care of the children of the prisoners. That is why we have considered it important to appoint child-responsive officers in prisons. Fortunately, very many prisons already have this. We must ensure that this good work is implemented as quickly as possible throughout the criminal justice system. That is why the Christian People’s Party chose to join the committee in order that this should be done in a regulation – instead of legislating it. A regulation of the system of child-responsors in criminal care will give a very clear signal. As Mr Henriksen said, it would be a requirement that the legal position of the child be strengthened. The regulation will be put in place quickly. A legislative change would take longer, required consultation, etc. This also means that criminal services are given the opportunity to organise and adapt their work to the different needs of each prison. The crucial thing in the matter – as I see it – is how we can ensure the best for children. The Christian People's Party believes that this is done by demanding child care in each prison. That's what we're doing now, through a prescription fixation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1526	I will first join what Kari Henriksen said in his contribution. There were many good arguments for why this is important. When someone is put in prison, it is not only the debt that becomes the frame itself, but also the family members. Whoever is convicted of punishment should be punished, but we must ensure that family members, especially young people, do not feel that they are also being punished. It is important for society to put in place arrangements, so that those in debt experience both guidance and advice on how to proceed. I would like to stress that in the Department and the Directorate of Criminal Affairs, there has been a great deal of work in establishing child contact in all prisons. It is therefore gratifying that this is coming soon. We see our trust that it will work in a good way. I would like to thank the rapporteurs from the Working Party for a good proposal. The Committee has supported and supported the proposal. Criminal services have an important responsibility to meet the needs of young people as relatives. It is positive that the work is in progress. However, as legislators in key policy areas, we need to ensure that we put in place systems that are well anchored in a clear regulatory framework. In that context, our international obligations will be leading, but there are not always clear signals and guidelines enough. Sometimes it will be right to house some arrangements in law. With the proposal for the amendment of the law we have up to today, a non-young person will automatically be entitled to visit the hired parents, but a child contact will be considered, together with other professionals, if it would be good for the young person to visit parents. These are demanding and complex assessments that require a competent person to make them. Young people are different and have to be treated differently. This takes up the proposed legislative change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1539	Let me first start by saying that it is very positive that all parties support the intention of this bill by myself and several representatives from the Workers' Party to legislate child contact with children of inmates. I have no doubt in any way that all the parties in Stortinget thought it was an important issue and think it should come into force. One might say that when the difference between the right and left sides becomes the difference between the law and the regulation, it might not be so easy for everyone outside this hall to see it. However, I would argue that in this particular issue there may be a significant difference, and I would say that it is important to legislate for children's contact with prisoners. Let me briefly go through the arguments against the law that I have managed to capture. First of all, one outside of this hall, but not even from the pulpit here, has heard that children of inserts may not be such a special group. I'm glad that no one has been in the vicinity of saying here, because children of intruders are a very special group of people. There are children who can have quite unique experiences and experiences and a very much more difficult situation than many other children. What I and SV have learned from time to time is that general rules are often very good and important, and that non-discrimination is important, but when someone is in a quite different situation than others, the most reasonable treatment is to give them special dishes and opportunities – and that is the case here. Then there is someone who says that lawmaking is not so important, and, as it says in the setting, that there are not so many who read laws. But when the Justice Committee expresses some skepticism as to how many laws seem to be important, one might wonder who stands up for the laws if the Justice Committee does not. I want to say that one should not overestimate the meaning of legislating things, and one should definitely not legislate in vain, but when it applies to children of indebtedness, it is time for those groups that have few people who can fight for themselves, who are not very talkative themselves, and who are deferred, it may be especially important to have a law, the most obvious form of right one can have, to beat the table with. Therefore, I thought it was particularly important in a matter such as this that we can legislate their rights. So it was said by the case-speaker that it was strange that SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party through the Red-Green government first sent the proposal on a hearing in 2012, that it was not then possible, but that we are now doing it. But what would have been very strange was if we didn't follow up on the policy we had in government when we didn't get that proposal as long as we sat there. So we're doing that right now, and I think it would be very important to get a law like this. However, it is very positive and important for children in Norway that we can get a prescription, and I hope it will happen as soon as possible. One of the forces with it is that we can put it into action quite quickly, and that in those places where it is not today, it can actually be implemented, and that children can get their dishes strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1550	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job and a good report and refer to what she said. I would also like to thank the representative Kari Henriksen for a year's commitment to children by prisoners in prison, among others. by including this theme in several interpellations in this room. I think that's very good. The debate illustrates that there is no disagreement on the basis of the proposal for a representative relating to the safeguarding of children’s rights when they have one of the parents in prison. But I have to say that I reacted a little bit to the presentation by the representative Kari Henriksen when it was in a way made so that those who were for law enforcement were properly concerned with the rights of the child, while those who were not for that, but who were for regulation fixing, were not really so concerned with the rights of the child. I don't think that's the basis for saying that. I think maybe the most important thing is to see what gives the best and the fastest results. The representative of Solhell was at the hearing in 2012. I would like to remind you that the bill was then mixed with reception. There was no general ‘approach’ to the bill then. Therefore, a prescription can help if things change along the way, you can change it more quickly to the child's advantage if you don't expect a rash. I would also like to say that it is important to get a prescription party. At the same time, it is quite gratifying to be able to provide information today that all prisons have now appointed the child-responsor. I had a meeting with the Crime Department earlier this week. They could tell that the child-responsor had now been appointed and that the scheme will come into force in all prisons over the New Year. This means that for once we are in a situation where practice precedes both regulation and law enforcement, and that is good. That is why I think it is a little strange when the representative Henriksen calls for more clarity on the part of the Council of State. I am most concerned with results – I have also said that in other debates – and we have now achieved this result at least before both the legislative proposal and the regulation have arrived. I also think it's important to remember a couple of other things. It is not just the kind of challenges pointed out in this representative proposal that are important for children. It's also important to think completely. How can prison facilitate better and more extensive contact between children and parents? There is no doubt that children of prisoners are a particularly vulnerable group. In many prisons, new visitor rooms are now being developed in a more child-friendly way. Some prisons — where parents are physically far away from their families — begin to look at the possibility of using Skype and other forms of communication. In those cases where the child is going to visit mother or father in prison, it is being worked to ensure that the children do not go through the entire prison yard and get the very heavy impression of prison before going to mother or father, because it is clear that this is something that also affects the situation of children. I finally want to say that this is really a happy day because these children get attention in the Stortinget. The result that's now coming is coming pretty fast. I think we should be satisfied with that right before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1572	Yes, Minister of Justice, I am very happy. I think this is a very nice day, and it is important that we have taken a first step in the important work of attaching rights more to children of prisoners. What I'm wondering is whether the Council of State has reflected on, and that could be part of that problem, is – and he's probably reflected on it, so it was really a little stupid way to ask: we have a criminal code that's pushed on employees. Employee organisations say that they want to have child contact in all prisons, but they see that there will be challenges in following up both the work aimed at children and the rehabilitation work to be done inside prisons. We see that the government has not put more money on the table for positions in the criminal service except for an adjustment related to these 41 new places, so I wonder if the Minister of Justice might say a little about his thoughts in order to continue and strengthen this work resourcefully in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1578	As I mentioned in the article, this system is now coming into force quite quickly. All prisons will then have their own child manager. There will also be different needs in different prisons. Some prisons have quite a number of prisoners with children — where the labour burden for child-responsibles will naturally be greater and the focus on organisation will be more and more important — while other prisons have very few prisoners with children. It is important for us that this task is properly carried out. That's why we think it's so important that we have to attach it to regulations, so that you can't go around this issue in any way. Of course, I want to follow up both on the resource situation in criminal care in general and also on that kind of action in particular, to ensure that it is properly and tidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1585	There are two questions I could imagine asking myself in addition to this. One is what assessments have been made by the Minister of Justice when there is so much consensus on the intention. What is it that the Minister of Justice has chosen to land at a slightly lower administrative and legal level than a law enforcement? For that argument, I can't quite get hold of it. Why not take the step out – when everyone agrees that it is so important – and say that it should be legislated? My second question is: we all agree that this is important, but I have to say that I was surprised at the statements made by Elvenes in the newspaper, and I ask whether the Minister of Justice agrees with his assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1592	With regard to the difference in the level of law and regulation, this will have meaning in some contexts. In this case, where the point is to grant completely concrete rights that are attached to a regulation, the practical difference will be very small. The reason why we believe this should be fixed in the regulation is also shown in the setting: One gets both to do this faster and to get flexibility if, for example, it is. the need to strengthen children’s rights more quickly. And then that's the point, as I pointed out in the post, that the law of the corresponding provision got quite mixed reception in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1597	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1602	I did not get it in the previous post, but I would also like to thank the case rapporteur, Ebbesen, for the work on solving this matter through the committee, and as I said in my post, I will give tribute to all the employees who have been concerned about this, for how they have got it. The Minister of Justice now says that there are child contacts in all prisons, and that is very good. What I also think is good is that there is a lot of work going on in connection with both expertise and voluntary work in relation to this issue. The Fangers Family Association has been working for this silent group for many, many years, which has made this issue actually political as well. I would also like to thank the voluntary organisations that have been in charge of children's rights, and it is more than the Fangers Family Association, but they have been drivers in this. So that's the right thing the Minister of Justice says – and I'm not going to go in and start a polemics about it, because I agree, and I said in my post that I was happy that there was agreement, I'm glad that we've got a prescription party, but I think it's a first step on the way. I believe that we still have to work to make it a law-enforcement. Opinions were shared in the hearing opinions – there was a minority, and a majority thought it was right. A good part of the minority opposed justified it in terms of resources. There were few who disagreed on the matter itself. There were some who saw some legal challenges related to it, and there were some who saw resource challenges related to it. So I think it's not necessary to make a debate of something that's not a debate, because everyone agreed that it should initially be possible to legislate, but one had to look at other matters and whether they were well-lit. The Ebbesen mentioned in his statement that you have confidence in the criminal justice system. I also have great confidence in the criminal services, and I think that this is not a matter of having trust or not having trust, but it is also a signal to us as legislators that we are obliged to ensure that the resources are actually also put in place when there is legislation and regulation, although I believe that the shade is still there. So I just want to say finally to Anundsen that if he has realized that I have said that there are people who are responsible for children, and someone who is opposed because they disagree with the law, it is completely wrong. Then I have expressed myself extremely clumsy. I don't remember saying it like this. I believe that in this room – and I said it clearly – there is a majority in favour of this intention being followed up, and I am happy to work with the voluntary organisations and the professionals to see what this is like.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1615	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 6 and 7 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1642	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that four lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1649	As the President said, the treatment of the custody part of the proposition is combined with the representative proposal of the Christian People's Party on changes to the penal code on minimum time, after-sales protection and leave. In order to ensure a better coherence between the rules on detention and the rules on ordinary prison sentences, changes to the rules on maximum retention time and minimum retention time are proposed. The maximum minimum retention time is proposed to be extended from 10 to 14 years in cases where a timeframe of 15 to 21 years has been established. The maximum minimum period of time is proposed to be extended from 15 to 20 years in cases where a timeframe of more than 21 years has been established. The maximum time frame is proposed to be extended to 30 years for crimes with a prison penalty for 30 years. Containment is a timeless sentence that can be passed on to dangerous offenders for the sake of social protection and to protect society from the possibility of new crime. It is a fundamental condition for the detention judgment that ordinary prison sentences are not sufficient for the protection of society. Although the penalty is indefinite, a time-frame for detention should be established. The timeframe may be extended if, at the end of the timeframe, it is considered that there is still a nearby risk of reoccurrence of serious criminal offences. Moreover, the time-frame has the meaning that all release before the end of the time-frame must be tested. After today's legislation, the minimum period may not exceed 10 years. The minimum period is determined on the basis of an estimate of when probation would be appropriate if the sentence had been sentenced to ordinary imprisonment. With today's legislation, there is an illogical difference at least in the case of long-term judges depending on whether you are in custody or by ordinary judgment. If the sentence of a ordinary judgment has been sentenced to a prison sentence of 21 years, the probation of that sentence will usually take place after two thirds of the sentence, i.e. after 14 years. On the other hand, a person who has been sentenced to 21 years imprisonment could be released after 10 years if the conditions exist, i.e. four years earlier than if one had been convicted of an ordinary conviction for a similar act. With the proposed amendment of the law, the minimum retention period of e.g. 21 years shall be added to 14 years by ordinary judgment. The main reason for the increase in the minimum period is first and foremost that it is contrary to the general judgment if the custodian can be released after a shorter settlement than if he had been sentenced to an ordinary prison sentence. For reasons of general prevention and for reasons of coherence of the judicial system, these two aspects will be better addressed by extending the minimum time and timeframe. The rules that the minimum period may not exceed 10 years and that the time-frame may not exceed 21 years apply after the current legislation also to offences with a penalty of 30 years. This means that a person sentenced to detention for a crime with such a penalty framework, for example: a serious act of terrorism may be subject to probation after 10 years. If he had been sentenced to ordinary prison sentence, parole would not have taken place before 20 years. With the proposed amendment, the maximum minimum retention period of 30 years will be set at 20 years, as by ordinary judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1666	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Elves, the rapporteur-general, who has let us through this. It was a slightly complicated problem when it was divided, but it has been very successful. Storage is an important matter. It has the extra criminal aggravating fact that the punishment is timeless, as the case-responsor said. Many inmates and their relatives experience this in themselves as an additional burden. However, this is introduced because the primary aim is to ensure that society is protected in the best possible way, so that the risk assessment is based on the judgment. In addition, action must have been of a serious nature, and it is the peril of action to be assessed against society’s need for protection. We have created this alternative form of reconciliation primarily to protect society, so that when the hazard criterion is no longer met, prisoners will be released. The community no longer needs the protection it is to have in prison. In order not to conflict with the general legal position, a minimum period of 10 years was introduced. The rules governing the special reaction to detention say that the content of the sentence should be based on the crime of the convictions and adapted to the specific circumstances and needs of the individual. The aim is to increase social adaptability and to combat new crime. The contents of the custody shall be organised in such a way as to bring about a gradual progress in the implementation towards full freedom. In the last 11 years, 203 detention sentences and 110 redundancies have been passed. The rate of relapse is similar to that of ordinary judges showing a study from the study centre of criminal services. For the Workers' Party, the serious dilemma is to be balanced against each other in this matter. The general concept of justice may be difficult. However, studies show that the current level of penalties in Norway today is broadly in line with people’s perception of what is generally correct. When the Workers' Party has gone into this matter, we have looked at arguments for a change, which is mainly linked to the experience of justice in victims of serious crime. The action has been carried out and, if serious, the early release, despite the fact that social protection has fallen, may be unfair. Arguments for the change related to the coordination of the length of settlement for serious crimes against non-contentional offenders also in that direction. Arguments rather against a change are linked to the purpose of the sentence, which is to be social protection-based. The consideration of the convicted and their relatives also in a direction that would conclude with no change. The balance is not simple. From other research and knowledge of those in prison, we know that the living conditions are evenly lower than in the general population, we know that the morbidity is great. We also know that it is a major challenge to adapt and individually follow-up and rehabilitation of individual prisoners. 92 pst. Of the prisoners, there are serious mental illnesses, and many have major learning difficulties and cognitive challenges. Criminal services employees point to the challenge of getting adequate and adapted rehabilitation and follow-up facilities for all, with today's number of employees. When we've come to vote for a change, it's because we've balanced these relationships, and we've concluded that the general sense of justice is heavy. We note that no changes have been made to the requirements of the regulations for follow-up and adaptation, and the legal provision still contains an assessment against a maximum penalty framework. The Labour Party therefore supports the proposal for changes to the penal code on custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1694	Let me start by giving honor to the Christian People's Party, who has addressed this matter and similar matters on several occasions. The use of the detention regime is perhaps one of the most challenging things we have – as the representative Henriksen was in it – because it is a so-called time-indeterminate punishment. It's probably the fact that we can end up with people having to sit inside their whole lives and not get out again, in the utmost consequence. It's a long way from Norwegian tradition to predictability, to know what you're going to, and to be able to come back and become a part of society again. But then there are some cases where, in the ultimate sense, you can end up with that not happening. At least I have recorded that it has been said by the director of Ila in a debate with the then State Council Storberget in the NRK many years ago. It's probably a reality that we're not talking so much about, but that's still on the table, and that's part of what's going on today. I think what you're discussing now and doing today in terms of minimum time is smart, but there are several challenges within this regime that you kind of don't take over the table. It would have been interesting, if those who adopted the changes and the introduction of the use of custody in their time had been here today, to see if they had recognized the issues that we are now discussing. I'm not sure. I'm not sure what they were thinking at the time, 100 pst. Match what we're discussing today, at least. What's good about this is that a law is not static, but something you have a dynamic discussion about. I think that's positive. There are other elements to this. One of them is, how clever is it to use custody for short sentences? Is it in line with what was the ambition when it was introduced? Is the severity sufficient to use custody, or should custody be used primarily for those who should be penalised for longer because of the severity? It's one of the things that I hope you can discuss in the future. The release of samples is not unproblematic, to put it simply. What kind of role should be e.g. The criminal services have? Per today they have no one. You can go to the court, and in many cases you get parole immediately. So you can go straight from one of the strictest regimes to the street. Is there a proper means of return? At my discretion, the answer is obviously no. That's why you should look at and make a regime that's so that we don't let people in custody go straight out. I know that will be demanding, because that means that you have to change your premises, but then it becomes the big balance: isn't it in the interests of society and the individual's efforts to create a system that reduces the risk of going back to crime? At my discretion, the answer is obvious – and the answer is yes. We can – as I said before – experience people sitting inside until they die. As a nation, which is a nation of tolerant people, who are forgiving by nature, but tough when needed, can we live with the fact that we end up dying on a cell in a Norwegian prison? Would that be a good Norwegian legal tradition? We haven't experienced it so far, so there's no tradition of today, but in the ultimate sense, it could be the case. Or should we look at, if we were to end up in a situation where there might be a fact, whether we should make any changes within the regime that is today? Have we taken it in, or are we postponing it because it's uncomfortable, it's hard, and we hope it won't happen? Some of the things I have just mentioned, I have just mentioned because it's not just about minimum time, it's not about maximum time, it's about the fact that even for those in custody, the Penal Code is to be followed, for example, for rehabilitation. If you're not going out, what is rehabilitation? Is there rehabilitation for a better life on the inside? What are the thresholds in this? This shows – for my part, at least – how complex and difficult part of these things actually are. The good thing is that we are discussing this in a good and proper way, with the best intentions. I see that what we are discussing today is paradoxical that you can be sentenced to custody and get out faster than the one who gets a time-limited sentence. We can't have it that way, and we don't want it that way. We're doing something about that today. But there are more dilemmas than that when you use custody. Some of them I wanted to point out now. I look forward to the further debate – and not least to hearing what the Council of State thinks about the different issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1715	We are discussing today a very important issue, which is initially not directly affecting so many people, but which is nevertheless very important for the safety and security of very many people. I just have to say that I like the homage of the representative Ellingen, and I'm going to get into some of his points in my post. The background here is that the Christian People's Party promoted a proposal for a representative who, in the middle of the discussion, was met with a proposition that we then shared. I also think that the rapporteur, Mr Elves, deserves to be commended for the way in which he broke the committee. The depositary is a special reaction reserved for a small group of the most dangerous offenders in society. In order to be sentenced to detention, very serious violent or sexual crimes must have been committed, and there must be a strong risk of repetition. Under today’s legislation, detention sentences can in principle be released earlier than those sentenced to ordinary ordinary prison sentences. Prison sentences sentenced to more than 14 years of detention may apply for parole after 10 years, i.e. earlier than if they had been sentenced to a common prison sentence. This undermines the interests of the depositary and is contrary to the general legal position. The changes we are making today are a step in the right direction, and I am therefore pleased with the cross-political agreement to amend the Criminal Procedures Act so that the legislation now harmonises more. This is high time and a good step on the way to re-establishing the trust of the detention centre. But more has to be done. The detention centre has several weaknesses. Firstly, it should be assessed whether parole is appropriate for those who have committed very serious crimes. Retirement before the end of time opens today to a very extensive court trial that is both resource-intensive and creates little predictability for the verdict and for the organisation of the criminal justice system. Instead of the system of minimum time and application for parole, the Christian People's Party believes that the court should only establish a time-frame corresponding to the prison sentence that would otherwise have been imposed for the relationship, as today, but not a minimum period of time of its own. If the prosecution authority does not bring the question of the extension of detention before the courts, it shall be released at the end of the time frame, following a phase-out in society. If the prosecution authority considers that there is still a nearby risk of recurrence, the case shall be brought before the courts, which may extend the detention for up to five years at a time, as at present. The proposal implies the continuation of the current system as a whole, but without the possibility of applying for a probationary period between ordinary, regular court proceedings for custody. Such a system requires more thorough post-protection, but it also does the changes we are making today. The community has a special obligation to follow-up detention sentences even in time after the end of residence in prison. The transition from a controlled environment in prison to freedom outside may be difficult for many, and it may be easy to fall back to old tracks. And for this group of offenders, which contains, among other things, Both serial offenders against children, rapists and repeaters of violence, society has a self-interest in ensuring that these persons are able to cope well with the transition to freedom, in order to avoid several innocent victims. Such back-up protection should be mandatory and cannot be removed by the individual jurisdiction, which is a problem today. In addition, without mandatory post-preservation protection after an end to detention, no prisoners who are not released but who are released after an end-of-life period are caught. Today’s detention system has the weakness of the establishment of no post-trial protection for detainees released at the end of the timeframe if the judgment is not extended by the courts. An example, from this summer, of how wrong it can be, is a case in which a man convicted of rape was released from custody after an end of time because it allegedly was no longer a near recurrence hazard, but where he was already arrested after a month and a half for a new rape. Mandatory post-closure may help to reduce the risk of such situations. The Christian People's Party has proposed that the courts should decide on the question of the continuation of detention one year before the end of the timeframe, so that it will be possible to initiate a gradual exclusion to society and the establishment of post-closure protection locally until release. The courts should also have the possibility to continue detention for up to five years, but with detailed guidelines on the practice of leave and follow-up services. I also have some reflections about parole, but since the time runs fast, I rather come back to it in a separate post. I take up the three proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1743	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1746	The depositary shall make it possible to protect society from dangerous convictions. It's about people who have committed serious crime, and where the risk has been considered great for them to make new crimes. Punishment is the rule. People are going to get a sentence where it's going to be fixed a time for when they're done zoning. At present, however, it is not justified that the doomsdays after a certain number of years should return to society. On the day of the criminal investigation, it is difficult to see whether the individual will be safe enough for society after x years. Containment sentences are criminals who are often widely noticed, given the reason they are in prison, and there may be heated discussions when it comes to parole of these offenders. We as legislators need to make sure that we always have a criminal system that reflects the general sense of justice and the concern that people should be safe in our society. Here it has been shown that the storage response has had some unfortunate results. The detention centre has now been working for a few years. Having such a reaction form is open in its place. The importance and necessity of social protection, in combination with good follow-up of convictions. We've seen in recent years that the current form of reaction means that there's not enough connection in our criminal response system. In a case where there are several convictions, where one is sentenced to detention with a 21-year time frame and another to a 21-year fixed term sentence, the person sentenced to detention could be sentenced to probation before the person who received a fixed term sentence becomes. So the person who was considered a greater danger to society at the time of the conviction first escapes. This is unfortunate. The setting set by the Committee today will eliminate this problem and ensure that our reaction system, which will continue to include both time-limited and time-indeterminate penalties, will be more closely linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1763	Let me first thank both the rapporteur and the committee for their good and constructive work and cooperation. I would like to make a few comments to the representative Klinge's comments, for that theory, I had almost said, as she had now towards the end, it turns out in practice to have happened several times – at least in one specific case – where there are persons who are judged in the same case, and where the person who is considered to have the greatest repeater and to be the greatest threat to society comes out of prison long before the person who was convicted in the same case, for the same relationship, but who was sentenced to ordinary imprisonment. It is clear that it is unreasonable, and that has not been the aim of this scheme. Conservance is based on the assumption of the continuous assessment of the reoccurrence risk. Regular judicial review is in line with the international legal obligations to which Norway has acceded. In particular, reference is made to Article 5.4 of the ECHR, where the European Court of Human Rights has interpreted a requirement for periodic judicial review in which a person has been sentenced to an indefinite response. Probation from detention is part of a gradual return to society and aims to facilitate the transition from prison to full freedom. At the same time, criminal services will be able to follow the judgment and monitor compliance with the conditions laid down. Common conditions include housing, place of residence, treatment, employment, prohibition of drug use and follow-up of criminal services. The latter condition means that free care is provided to keep track of the life situation and development of the probationary and to assist the probationary in contact with other departments, such as: Nav, school and health authorities, to ensure the best possible approach to society. In this way, parole is also an instrument for detention for those sentenced to detention. To date, there has been a broad political agreement on the need for and the possibility of parole for prisoners. I believe, however, that it is highly unreasonable for persons convicted of the most serious detention sentences to be released earlier than those sentenced to ordinary prison sentences of equivalent length, and this is now being changed. I have also registered that the representative Ropstad will come back with some assessments related to the proposal on leave, so it may be that I will take the floor again when it comes to it. But I think it's important to bear in mind that when you talk about post-employment protection and leave, it's a little connected, because at the end of the settlement, the possibility of criminal and voluntary care affecting their behavior will also end. That's why it's important to see the two things in context. The possibility of parole also provides for a more stringent follow-up in a gradual return to society, and it is also necessary to look at the opportunities available to municipalities to contribute to sustainable and correct post-employment protection. So I agree with the proposals from the Christian People's Party attached to the proposal for a representative that an important prerequisite for a crime-free life after parole and criminal execution is post-protection. It's absolutely crucial. It has also been stated in the Government Platform that convictions should be guaranteed a real opportunity to live a life free of crime. Good return to society requires close cooperation between several actors, engaged voluntary and public institutions. The Ministry will therefore review the legislation in this area and ensure that we have the necessary tools in place. Finally, I thought I would say a little about the scope of this problem. As of September 2014, 220 judicial judges have been appointed in custody. A total of 119 people are released. It's 76 that's released by the court - 63 of them on trial and 13 finally. In 40 of those cases, the court has released the recommendation of the criminal or prosecution authority. It also underlines the importance of having both an orderly code and a code that is harmonised with ordinary punishment, so that one does not come into a situation where being sentenced to detention in reality becomes a milder criminal reaction than ordinary prison sentences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1782	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1785	I am very pleased with what the Minister of Justice said at the end of his speech, for that was really what I was going to ask him about. It will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Official Journal of the European Union. in the evening post today that the Council of State should have received a letter from the National Attorney General a week ago, if I understood correctly, that the prosecution decided not to recommend detention and rather to use the ordinary prison sentence, because the conditions for parole are too well known. Now there is a Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and Right notes together, so a majority asks you to look at it. Can the Council of State say a little bit more about how he sees a possible change or what he thinks about this, because it's obvious that the custody institution doesn't work like it's supposed to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1793	The letter comes as a result of a conversation between the Riksadvokat and me, where we discussed exactly these issues, and that is how the law is being practiced, and what is evidence in court. As stated in the opinion of the Committee, when the theme of evidence on parole or release is almost the same as at the time of the judgment, it becomes unusually demanding to be able to prove that there is a ‘close danger of recurrence’ when he has been in prison for many years. The letter from the Riksadvokat will follow up, in close dialogue with the Riksadvokat, to see how we can get back to Stortinget with a way to solve this. It is quite clear – at least in my head – that the way this is being practised today is not entirely in line with what was meant at the time the detention centre was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1800	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1805	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation on a case of difficult balances and difficult dilemmas. These include: achieve by means of this law change, is to increase social protection and remove the logical flaw that is there today by allowing those who make a custody sentence to escape much earlier than those who make a common judgment. But this case has another side, which has been relatively little affected: once society has guaranteed itself the right to keep people in prison for life, society also has a duty and a responsibility to try to rehabilitate and bring back to society those who are in prison. Unfortunately, this is not possible in part of the cases, because the starting point is so bad that you have to assume that the reconciliation of life is the result. The government has strengthened the Ila security facility by 18.8 million. in the budget, precisely in order to facilitate better rehabilitation arrangements for the accomplices in those zones, and in order to ensure fundamental human rights and human rights, by whom criminal convictions are also protected. These two aspects must also be taken into account and combined by criminal law. Even the most harsh criminals have a human dignity. And if you read the state budget, you'll see that the reason for increasing the appropriations for Ila by almost 20 million. These two considerations are to be taken into account – the best possible provision of rehabilitation and humane compensation for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1814	Then I finish my post: Another moment is that the proposed change of minimum time will result in the time when a person can apply for parole from custody being parallel to when he can apply for parole from a normal prison sentence of equivalent length. But the conditions for parole are not the same, and paradoxically, it is easier for our most dangerous offenders to be granted parole from custody than if they had only been sentenced to ordinary prison sentences. The Court of Justice has pointed out in three different judgments that the standard of assessment for the release of probation from custody shall be the same as that for the purpose of judging the detention. This means that the prosecution authority must provide evidence that there is a near-risk of recurrence on release, which may be very difficult to prove if the conviction has been in prison for several years in a controlled environment and thus does not have sufficient opportunity to predict how it will deal with life outside prison — and whether there is an actual risk of recurrence. This is different from parole from ordinary prison sentences, where criminal services decide whether parole would be impracticable on the basis of a broad assessment of the circumstances of the case. And as the Council of State itself stressed, it was 40 things that the police actually recommended that it not be released. As mentioned in today's Evening Post, the National Attorney General has committed himself to the case, attributed the Council of State last week and has indicated that the prosecution authority will be cautious in making a claim for detention, even when the formal terms are in place, because of the well-known parole rule. It is an important signal that we should listen to. Therefore, in the view of the Christian People's Party, there is a need to change the conditions of parole from detention in order to take sufficient account of the needs of society for protection. We believe that a broader assessment basis must be put in place than what is being used today. We are therefore pleased that the Right Party and the Advance Party also support this and together with the Christian People's Party have asked for such an assessment, and from the Council's response to my reply instead, I have good expectations about it. So there are several weaknesses at the detention centre. I therefore believe that there really is a need for a complete review of this whole form of punishment, and to evaluate it, after it was introduced in 2001, and not just repair the obvious failures. Then there is also a need for a small explanation of the vote: we will vote for our primary position, as I said before, and promote the proposals to abolish the possibility of parole in the minimum zone time, to introduce mandatory post-contention protection for those sentenced to detention after the end of their term of residence, and to tighten the rules of detention for those sentenced to detention. But we will, of course, subsidiaryly vote for the proposition, which meets what we've been busy about.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1834	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1848	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1862	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 10-12 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1901	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no opportunity for a replacement of lines, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1908	In 2014, Norway has had some challenges. The forest fires in Laerdal, in Flatanger and on Fröya frame many, and they put our emergency and emergency seats to the test. All three fires were swept away without loss of life or serious injuries. According to a recent report from PwC, no information has been provided indicating that the fires could have been more rapid or that the damage should have been smaller. In particular, I note this wording in the report: ‘One person made a significant effort to save lives and protect values. The effort and risk will exceed what society can expect from both professional and voluntary teams.’» On behalf of the Justice Committee, I thank all those who contributed to the decommissioning and rescue work in Lærdal, Flatanger and Fröya. We admire your courage, we honor your efforts, and we thank you for the work you do. When the government wants to set 10 million. kr for the specific operating costs of forest fires this spring and summer, the Justice Committee supports it. Of course, the PwC report also contains several learning points. They're following them. This proposition also takes into account the economic need for the terrorist threat this summer. Provisional preparedness was temporarily suspended and immediate action was taken to secure Norway. I'm sure the decisions that were taken were conscientious. I am sure that everyone in all the current etatar acted with deep respect for the great responsibility. I would like to thank you here on behalf of the Justice Committee for the sincere and whole-hearted work done by police officers and women throughout the country in a difficult situation. Since there is currently no holistic evaluation of the management of the terrorist threat in the summer, I no longer go into the characteristics of the handling. I think it's right to wait for such an evaluation, just out of respect for the work that has been done. My experience is that those who themselves carry out operational police work are at the forefront of misleading learners to do things better every time. We have obligations as responsible politicians to act with the same willingness to learn. In that case, we should not briefly conclude the evaluation by drawing conclusions without a professional basis. Thankfulness is asking us with us anyway. When the government proposes to allow 74.6 million. and to make some redeployments to cover the costs incurred by the management of the terrorist threat in the summer, a consensus committee supports this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1926	I agree with the rapporteur's good report on the matter. When I ask for the floor, it's because the terrorist threat this summer was a big event. We all got involved in the question, and I really want to praise the way this was handled, and the information service from the government and the police. An open information line was chosen on the situation, and it certainly created uncertainty in some, but so far it could indicate that it also created considerable calm and security in the population, which balanced the unrest. There is no phased response on how to deal with such situations – it has to be assessed by the authorities on a case-by-case basis. But I noticed with satisfaction that the Minister of Justice had already made clear during the very first press conference – already at that time – that emergency resources had been prepared by the authorities in the police and cooperation with the Defence Department. It shows significant progress and lessons from past serious events. So it's a well described case. We will probably also come back to this when we see an evaluation in retrospect, but I agree entirely with the rapporteur's comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1937	Let me just say a few words in the follow-up to the rapporteur's posts, to which I agree. I think it is good for all those who have made extraordinary efforts in extraordinary, very demanding situations, to receive such thanks from the Justice Committee and the chair of the Justice Committee. What we experienced in winter with the fires in Lærdal, in Flatanger and on Fröya, was quite special. It was a situation where you normally have very low activity of forest fire helicopters. There was a need for quite extensive assistance from forest fire helicopters to control these fires. Both in that context and related to the terrorist threat this summer, a fantastic effort is being made by those who are where it happens. They extend far in order to be able to deliver well, and it is in many ways reassuring also for all those who make the effort to know that they are now receiving the consent of the Storting that extraordinary events that impose extraordinary demands on resources should not go beyond all other activities and thus receive additional funding for the needs of the extraordinary events. So the threshold for it will be pretty high normally, but both of these situations have been very important to get cleared up in economic as well. It also corresponds to what the government said, especially when the threat of terror hit us this summer. Then, on my own behalf, I would like to thank the Committee – now it is probably the last day that the Committee has issues to deal with before Christmas – for a good cooperation in the year that has been. I want to wish each one of you a really good Christmas. I'm looking forward to a good – and maybe I'm going to sneak into saying an even better – collaboration in the coming year. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1946	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10, 11, and 12. Case No. 13 have been previously treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1962	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1976	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1990	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e1996	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e2004	A total of 24 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hadia Tajik on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 2-21, by Hadia Tajik, on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, proposals Nos. 22-24, from Jenny Klinge on behalf of the Centre Party There is a vote on proposal No. 22, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present a case on how to improve recruitment to the land change courts.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e2032	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 23 and 24, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case on possible areas for the establishment of new children’. Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case explaining how Norway can strengthen border control within the framework of the Schengen Agreement.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e2056	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Justice I [[Frame area 5]] The State budget for 2015 is authorised under: [[Expenditure61Highlightness1Operating expenditure92 352 000400Ministry of Justice and Defence1Operating expenditure344 411 00023Special operating expenditure, research and knowledge development, may be carried over28 816 00050Norway Research Council21 863 00071Contributions to international organisations12 791 000410Entrepreneurship rights1Operating expenditure1 811 200 00021Special operating expenditure77 279 000411Administration of the Court of Justice1Operating expenditure, may be used under the heading. 410 Item 174 846 000413Journals1Operating expenditure218 162 00021Special operating expenditure, may be carried over9 686 000414Repayments and other judicial costs1Operating expenditure176 546 00021Special operating expenditure39 761 000430Criminal care1Operating expenditure3 750 582 00021Special operating expenditure, may be used under Chapter 2. 430items18400000045budgetsare available..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e3666	There is a vote on proposal No. 14, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The big picture asks the government in the revised budget 2015 to come back with an explanation of the follow-up of the Storting decision to reduce the use of smooth cell cells, including an overview of how many cells have been repaired, and the plans for further improvements.’; The Left and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e3686	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2-13 and Nos 15–21, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to explain how the Progress Party's proposal on job guarantee for police students, cf. Document 8:97 S [[2012-2013]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back in an appropriate manner with a precise layout of the budget in chapters and items where VAT is normally carried.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a national plan to facilitate centres for the training and building of competences between emergency and emergency seats.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set up a pilot project for one or more national centres of competence for the exercise and interoperability of social security and preparedness.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a national, cross-sectoral, cybersecurity strategy.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case that answers whether the government has achieved its own objective of reducing the annual average waiting times to 40 days at the State Children’s Home. See. the objectives of the action plan ‘A good childhood is out of life’, where this objective is to be achieved in 2014.’.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to file a case with measures to reduce the waiting time for the questioning of children at the State Children’s House and to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a plan to provide more pediatric practitioners with social pediatric competence in the country’s hospital.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan to ensure that all children’s homes in the country are provided with a level playing field for the financing of medical personnel and competences.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work to enable the Office for the Compensation of Victims to provide a service which does not require the victims of violence in close relations to wait for the payment of their legal compensation for violence and return to the Stortinget with a case that will further clarify this.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a case with proposals for measures to strengthen free legal aid in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate way to strengthen the security of the country’s warehouse and law enforcement.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to come back in an appropriate manner with an overview of the efficiency gains calculated for the reorganisation of criminal services from three to two levels of administration and the use to which the efficiency is to be used. Prop. [[2014-2015]] 1 S where the government describes that the reorganisation of criminal services should result in less bureaucracy and more service production.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to present a concrete plan to the Stortinget on how to follow up and remedy the situation of serious mental illness and prisoners with major behavioural problems on their own.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit a plan to the Storting on how the government will improve conditions for female prisoners in the short and long term.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The biggest request is that there be a separate case of setting up housing abroad where an account is made of conditions relating to the right, follow-up of prisoners, consequences for the number of posts in Norway and the role of Norwegian employees in foreign prisons, including wages and employment, when the place of residence is a foreign prison, cf. Prop. [[2024-2015]] 1 S where the government has pointed to the temporary rental of detention centres for prisoners convicted of crimes against Norwegian law.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to present a case on how the public salary rate can be increased in line with the general wage growth.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to put forward a case on how to increase the recruitment of women to positions of police leadership.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case on how the Police Directorate can be streamlined.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e5532	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e6480	During the debate, Mr Vegar Solhjell put forward two proposals in total on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. These proposals have been made available to the representatives. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new proposal to regulate the processing of personal data by criminal authorities in the Infoflot system, which clearly specifies: – the concept of ‘serious crime’, – with clear requirements for the verification of data before they are registered, – where changes in the tasks of criminal services have been addressed.’ The left has warned that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e6510	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of the new legislation during the period in order to assess the impact of the legislative changes in view of the role of criminal justice and the legal certainty of prisoners.’ The President noted that the proposer had corrected this proposal. the word ‘period’ is deleted and replaced by ‘three years’; The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e6724	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at II. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e6738	It shall be heard on the position of the Committee in relation to I and III. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e6753	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Socialist Left wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e6768	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7311	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7321	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7436	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7446	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7453	During the debate, Mr Henriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law 18 May 2001 No 21 on the implementation of penalties, etc. [[criminal enforcement law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7526	During the debate, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad put forward three proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a change in the detention penalty which eliminates the possibility of parole in the minimum zone.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for mandatory post-contention protection for those sentenced to detention.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for tightening the rules on detention of sentenced persons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7598	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e7608	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e8032	Case No. 13 was voted over earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-12.ana.ud1675e9109	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
