ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e133	Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party's Group on the Permit of the Representative Eirik Sivertsen on 10 and 11 June to attend the meeting of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee in Copenhagen of the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the Permit of the Representative Kenneth Svendsen from 10 June to 13 June in order to take part in the Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in London On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Tone-Helen Toften
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e165	Dagfinn Henrik Olsen and Tone-Helen Toften are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e171	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e181	The representative, Martin Kolberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e184	On behalf of the representatives of Per Olaf Lundteigen, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Jette F. Christensen, Marit Arnstad, Karin Andersen, Gunvor Eldegard and myself, I would like to propose a new provision on disclosure obligations to state councils and state secretaries of former contracting entities and political and commercial interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e189	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 19 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. Furthermore, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e328	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the political groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e339	Norway’s contribution to the ISAF operation has been widely supported in Stortinget. All parties on the Stortinget except one have participated in governments that have managed the operation from the Norwegian side. The broad outreach is due to the importance of the mission and to its crucial role in stopping Afghanistan from becoming a marshal for international terrorism. For the Workers' Party, it has also been important that the operation has had a clear and clear UN mandate. I agree with the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence. Ten Norwegian lives have been lost in Afghanistan. Norwegian politicians have considered this mission so important for international security that we have been willing to send Norwegian soldiers there – with considerable risk to our soldiers. When we are going to deal with further participation in Afghanistan, we have to ask the same question again, not only if there is a need for the mission, but whether we are still willing to sacrifice Norwegian lives in dangerous missions in Afghanistan. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who stresses that our continued support for Afghanistan depends on the new president and his government following up on its commitments in our development agreement, on the fight against corruption, on respect for human rights, and – not least – respect for the natural place of women in society. We cannot risk Norwegian life for a development that is going in the wrong direction in these areas. I am pleased that the Minister of Defence invites you to a broad process on this in the autumn. Whether the assignment is to be as extensive as today will be part of this discussion. The Afghanistan mission is to build capacity for the anti-terrorist police. It says a lot about the quality of the Norwegian defense that we have been set to do this task. It is a very important task for stability and security in Afghanistan. The Anti-Terrorism Unit is a clear expression of the Afghans’ ability to maintain their own security. However, if we are to contribute to capacity building in other areas, it must also enter into a broad discussion. Does the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice need help in steering the central security and preparedness work in Afghanistan? We also have to ask questions about where we are best placed to provide support. We definitely have that in terms of equality. We have to focus on that all the time, if we don't want to get back on the gender equality work. I welcome a broad evaluation of our presence in Afghanistan. Taking in experience both from those who have participated on the ground and from those who can analyse it from the outside is important. The Labour Party has called for a public investigation – NOW – to be an appropriate framework for such a review, following the model of the European investigation. But it makes great demands on those who are given such a mission, that it can happen while we still have soldiers present. I assume that the government will follow up the signals that the Storting will be involved in terms of both mandate and composition of the sample. Although it is moving forward in Afghanistan, I think the Foreign Minister gives a good description of the weaknesses in the construction of democratic Afghanistan. In addition to continued support for the Taliban in some areas, corruption is the main obstacle. But there's an unstable situation across this region. The terrorist attack at the Karachi airport says a lot about the instability in this region. The border areas of Pakistan are unstable. Historically, the other countries in this region have not served a strong Afghanistan. I note specifically that the Minister for Foreign Affairs gives a thorough description of the need for assistance in Afghanistan. The Afghan government must sit in the driver's seat and we must cooperate with the UN and other donors. It is very reassuring, I think, that the government is building its policy on the need for defence and assistance to be separated. There was something else the Minister of Defense said when she was in opposition, but in my opinion she is now making a correct assessment. Long-term aid that the Afghans themselves are held responsible for progress is crucial to the quality of aid. Over ten years of efforts in Afghanistan have resulted in the capacity of the Afghans to ensure their own security. Norway has also committed itself to taking a significant responsibility in the coming years for aid and development in Afghanistan, both through its continued financial contribution to ensure its own security and through significant financial contributions that can contribute to development. Now there will be an important responsibility on the newly elected management of the country, in two areas, both to manage and to follow up the assistance in line with the requirements we place on receiving responsibility and the signing of the bilateral security agreement, which is an important clarification for the future. For more than ten years, nearly 9,000 of our soldiers have been on guard in Afghanistan. They've been training, they've given support, and they've been in tough fights. Many have been exposed to major dangers. Ten Nordics have lost their lives. The bet has not been in vain. The main task has been carried out. Afghanistan is no longer a marshal area for international terrorism. Norwegian soldiers have contributed to stability and security and, through training and advice, have provided the basis for Afghanistan to take responsibility for its own security. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence stress that the first part of the presidential elections is now being held, and the next round of elections is now only days away. Much remains, but step by step has succeeded in developing democracy, as an alternative to tyranny and disorder. I look forward to the government ensuring that a necessary and thorough discussion of our further contributions is anchored in Stortinget, both for further efforts for development and any Norwegian contributions after 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e371	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for the presentations, which were good and thorough. We will learn from the Afghanistan exposure, both in terms of future foreign operations and in Norwegian development policy. A unanimous increase has sought a broad evaluation, and we look forward to the evaluation report of the expert group appointed by the Ministry of Defence. I would like to base a NATO perspective on my post. The Afghanistan operation remains the most significant operation NATO has had and continues to have. NATO took over ISAF in 2003 on behalf of the international community. Since it was difficult to get individual UN countries to organise ISAF, NATO was able to bring together military forces from allies and increasingly from partner countries. Mostly, there were 139 000 personnel in the ISAF team, from 50 countries. The end of the ISAF operation allows for a broader reflection point for NATO and NATO operations. The ISAF operation has been responsible for the interoperability of the alliance for over a decade, that is, our ability to work together. It has also been a good reason to define our capabilities, and not least the operation has had an impact on our partnerships, as NATO has opened up a wide range of partners. The end of the ISAF operation is an opportunity to adjust our position away from major operations. In Kosovo, we also close our operation slowly. The challenge now, when we withdraw in large numbers, is how we stay connected. It's a major strategic shift. It was also the red thread in the discussion in Vilnius during the month of the spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. What is obvious, however, is that we see the need for large, integrated exercises to maintain competence and interaction, exercises in which Norway should actively participate, and in Norwegian territory. Non-military capabilities are necessary to perform stabilisation and reconstruction. It's the exit strategy of any operation. It's a fact that NATO doesn't have a full solution within the alliance to do this. Once we've ended the conflict, how do we get out? This is largely the Afghan experience. However, the problem is often co-operation and co-organisation with other and other institutions. Non-military capabilities are not under command. NATO cannot insist on civilians entering the field. It is a voluntary area for the allies, where the normal process does not apply. Only allies are willing to do it. It's this willingness that's now being tested, with the withdrawal of the ISAF forces. The institutional apparatus, the economy and the security forces in Afghanistan will face major problems if the international community degrades the country from the agenda. Continued presence will be necessary to ensure that Afghan security forces can stand up to the insurgent forces and ensure that neighbouring countries respect the rule of law so that Afghanistan does not re-establish its stability. Continued funding of the Afghan security forces will be necessary beyond 2014. For Norway, this continues to help support stabilisation in Afghanistan, so it is essential that we maintain and preferably increase our own defence budget. We have a complex threat picture, which recently became much more complex. But whatever Russia does, the other threats don't disappear. Furthermore, we see in Right Norwegian participation in the Resolute Support mission and a continuation of the Norwegian Special Force Contribution in Kabul as likely beyond 2014, with the assumption that other countries also participate. Much has been achieved in Afghanistan, and much remains. We have to remember what Afghanistan once was: a country that had been at war almost continuously since 1979, a country that was a marshal for the international terrorist network Al Qaida, and ruled by the Taliban with strongly Islamic and anti-female basic ideology. Has it gone the right way? Well, Al Qaida is out, and the Karzai government, which supported the international presence, has made sure that at the beginning of the school year 2013–2014 9.3 million students were registered, where 40 pst. were girls. In 2002, only 1.5 million children were educated, and girls almost had no access. The number of female teachers has gone from 0 to 30 pst. today. This and several themes will be discussed by other speakers from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e399	Let me first express my respect and sorrow for the five ISAF soldiers who were killed today in the Zabul province, possibly by ‘friendly four’. In any case, there is further loss of the lives of young soldiers. NATO has now lost 36 soldiers since New Year's. It's a big victim. I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for a good report on the status of development in Afghanistan and Norway's involvement in the country. I want to go back in the near past and look a little bit at the background of why Norwegian military forces were at all sent to the mountainous region between Central and South Asia. Norway has no self-interest in Afghanistan. Norway has been, and is, engaged in Afghanistan because of its government, led by the extreme Islamic movement of the Taliban, cruel and brutal suicide attacks on the United States on 11 September 2001. The attack on the United States was an attack on NATO, and therefore an attack on the alliance at the time of 15 member countries. At the same time, the attack was an attack on the values of freedom on which Western democracies are built and an attack on the human rights of the United Nations – in reality an attack on the era of information and civilization. With this as a hindrance, NATO chose to follow its adopted doctrine that an attack on one of the Member States is an attack on all. NATO, led by the United States, therefore repeated the attack with the aim of killing the leading ideological and spiritual terrorist Osama bin Laden, and to free Afghanistan from the Taliban. The war on terror was initiated. NATO countries were subsequently supported by a number of countries also outside the alliance. The Taliban has today been removed from power, and Afghanistan will hold its second democratic elections in the near future. However, the Taliban remains a power factor in southern parts of the country. I dwell on history because in some contexts a picture has been created that Norway and other countries are in Afghanistan of their own interest. No, the NATO countries have sacrificed human lives and enormous resources for Afghanistan's inhabitants to regain freedom from Islamic Sharia and religious tyranny. What we now expect and should demand is that the Afghans themselves now gradually take over control of their own country, and that they, of their own interest, manage the freedom that NATO and others have provided the best possible basis for. I want to add that neither NATO nor any other volunteer participating countries in the war on terror owe Afghanistan anything. In his statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs said that the election was a settlement with the Taliban movement. There's probably a lot of truth in that. The Taliban has stated that they will do everything they can to prevent a successful election. The Minister of Foreign Affairs further said that this must be taken into account by the Taliban – I am a little less sure of that. In a regular democracy it would be natural to draw such a conclusion, but experience shows that strong forces in the Taliban hardly consider democracy as the gateway to power and influence. That being said, it is of course positive that the Afghan people are being expressed their will through elections. There is no acceptable alternative. All good forces in Afghanistan should therefore now remain in their home country and build democratic institutions. Democratic forces must plan how the country will gradually be able to cope in the future without international military presence. With this background, it is worrying that many Afghans, who have worked for the ISAF forces, choose to leave their home country and settle in the West. In my opinion, it is totally unacceptable and can create a senseless precedent. Of course, local staff of Afghans have not fought for Norway, as some claim. Local employees have struggled to free their own country from Islamists, and they have been paid well for the job. These are people who will be of great value and benefit in rebuilding, and I would therefore encourage the many who today with great enthusiasm argue that the skilled partners of the ISAF forces will leave their home country and settle in the West, thinking more about what will be best for development in Afghanistan. Once again, we must not forget that the ISAF forces have not been in Afghanistan for their own gain, but to help the Afghans to rule their own country. As the Foreign Minister correctly pointed out, we must be prepared for setbacks. To avoid this, good, well-educated democrats must remain and build up their own country. Norway has used large resources, both military, civil and economic, to enable Afghanistan to control itself. The Minister for Foreign Affairs announced in his statement that Norway is planning to contribute 750 million. kr in assistance every year in Afghanistan. This is huge amount of money. Unfortunately, such huge transfers can contribute to corruption and perhaps as important as that, make Afghanistan dependent on assistance. We have seen examples of this in several countries, namely that good intentions have unintended consequences. There are in any case few or no examples that free money has led to good governance, democracy, the protection of human rights and the export-oriented industry. Moreover, financial contributions related to humanitarian activities and development must not evolve into permanent jobs. No one deserves it – least of all the Afghans themselves. Whether Afghanistan succeeds in the future will largely depend on how its women are treated. Countries ruled by men alone have, without exception, significant shortcomings. Girls must be trained, and they must be given the opportunity to complete their education. Women must be given the opportunity to compete with men on equal terms. That means that men must find themselves in giving power and decision-making power to women. Accepts discrimination of 50 pst. by the population, there is no democracy. The road is also short to impose restrictions on other groups in society. I would urge the Minister of Foreign Affairs to link the size of Norway's assistance to women's participation in government and care. This is easily measurable and easy for the recipient countries to clean up. In this area, we should be completely consistent: no Norwegian aid to Afghanistan if it reintroduces institutionalised discrimination against women. I want to end with a little reminder. NATO member states do not owe Afghanistan anything. The efforts of the NATO countries in Afghanistan have had a huge cost for the alliance and for the Member States. As the Minister of Defence wisely reminded us, there are now 51 000 international forces in Afghanistan. However, Afghanistan is not the only place in the world where democracy and human rights are challenged. Soldiers have lost their lives, the financial costs have been formidable and time and attention have taken the focus away from other areas. This effort stands for enormous respect. Nor should it be forgotten that the great commitment of the NATO countries to Afghanistan has obviously had consequences for the preparedness and military structure of the domestic defence of the Member States. The conflict in Ukraine clearly shows that peace and deportability in our neighbourhoods are not written in stone for all future. The Norwegian defence should therefore not lose focus on its primary tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e443	I would like to start by thanking Secretary of State Brende and Minister of Defence Eriksen Soreide for two very good statements. Since the US terrorist attack on 11 September 2001, Afghanistan has been central to international security policy. As the Taliban regime in Afghanistan did not want to cooperate to get the backers involved, a military operation was launched that has proved to be much longer than many believed in 2001. The Taliban regime is falling rapidly, but developing a well-functioning state and developing the country economically and socially is almost a generational project. That's why I'm very happy that there's now an evaluation of the overall effort, and that we're taking with us the experience of what's happened in Afghanistan. The Christian People’s Party has long been committed to a broad evaluation of Norway’s collective efforts in Afghanistan, where one assesses response options and strategies, results, and where lessons can be learned for future benefit. We welcome the fact that both Foreign Minister Brende and Defence Minister Eriksen Soreide no confirm that we are receiving a holistic evaluation covering both military and civil efforts, including development aid. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) also has to include an assessment of what should have been done differently, and what assessments we have to include in the design of future involvement in conflict-filled areas. Norway's involvement in Afghanistan has been the most extensive foreign policy commitment Norway has had since World War II. Support has been made up of three main components: one is military aid, the other is humanitarian aid, but we have also had civil support. And it's the soundness, the interaction between the different actors and whether we as a nation have been coordinated in a good enough way both nationally and internationally, and in how we should learn from this in future operations. On the humanitarian side, an ongoing evaluation has been carried out, which would naturally be part of a comprehensive evaluation of Norwegian interventions. On Saturday 5 April, the first round of the presidential elections in Afghanistan was closed. Election participation was greater than in the previous presidential elections in 2009. Selectors will traverse threats from the Taliban and attack. The official election result from the first round showed that Abdullah Abdullah's favorite was 45 pst. digestion, while Ashraf Ghana still at 31 p.m. In Afghanistan, the second round of elections takes place on 14 June between these two candidates. That's because none of the candidates got multiples in the first round. It was surprising that the two candidates received three quarters of the votes in the first round. Both Abdullah Abdullah and Ashraf Ghana, which are now to enter a new round of elections, are friendly to the West and the United States. However, the security situation is tense in the region. An example of this is that Presidential candidate Abdullah Abdullah survived an assassination attempt on June 6th. I would like to thank you for your information. I am pleased with the evaluation that will now take place, and think that it is important that we as a nation take this lesson into account in future operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e466	First of all, thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence for the thorough distribution and explanation of developments in Afghanistan and Norway for their commitment there. On 5 April, the Afghans voted for a presidential candidate and candidates for the provincial assemblies. In advance, there was widespread fear that the Taliban would be able to prevent the election of a new president and new governing body in the 34 provinces. Fortunately, the most pessimistic predictions over the elections in Afghanistan did not come to pass. According to the Evening Post, the option gave a glimpse of hope. This was the first time another elected president was replaced. This was the first option that the Afghans themselves have managed to secure and implement. This was the first choice where the media has contributed to a debate on political issues – not just about personal property. After years of unrest, the Afghans have made such a democratic choice that, in fact, they have allowed it to do so, and fortunately, the election was not as elective as fear. This democratic development of society would not have been possible if the Taliban had still had power in the country. This brings me to the starting point for this power collection from the international community that we've seen in Afghanistan for 13 years. That overarching objective was to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a marshal and a starting point for international terrorism. Another objective that needs to be mentioned was the desire to contribute to a positive social development that could provide the basis for equal rights for women and men and the future based on development, training, knowledge and security — not a future based on fear and oppression. Operations in Afghanistan are mandated by the UN Security Council as a peacekeeping force. Have we been happy with the painting we've seen? This question is difficult to answer in brief. International forces are still in the country, but on a much smaller scale than a few years ago. The light has in no way been extinguished in Afghanistan. After 13 years, developments have gone in a positive direction in such a way that the Afghans are now in a position to keep the goods safe, and this is seen at a completely different and higher level than a few years ago. In such a situation, it is with great gratitude that we remember the solar data that lost their lives when they carried out the tasks that Norway had assigned them. Back his kinsmen, fathers, mothers, girlfriends, family and veins with deep wounds after the loss of their loved ones. Many of the solar data that have been shared in international operations come back to society with positive experiences and memories of service time in Afghanistan, but some developers are also delaying. They may report shortly after they return, or years may elapse before wear and tear is reported to such an extent that they need to be assisted by society as they send them out into service. There is therefore an additional obligation on society towards this group to justify the situation as well as possible so that the tax should not be taken over. The debate on the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Defence on developments in Afghanistan and Norway's involvement in the country will provide answers to old questions at the same time as new questions will be raised. I therefore ask the Minister for Defence to understand the situation of how our military involvement in Afghanistan is being taken care of and how experiences that have been gained are being passed on in our national defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e481	I would also like to thank, as probably almost all the previous speakers, for the statements by both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. Swallowing about the commitment we have in Afghanistan now goes into a new era, I think the Afghanistan statement still has an important function in the Storting. And if that's how we choose to participate in NATO's Resolute Support mission, I still think it's important to have that kind of presentation and that kind of debate. It's important that we get an open round in Stortinget on this so important and so serious topic. There is no doubt that much has improved in Afghanistan now than it was in 2001. The Minister of Foreign Affairs pointed seas to education and health as the main areas, and the speech of the figures is that in 2001 one million children went to school, while in 2008 the figure is eight million — of them 41. girls. National access to primary health services has increased from 9 pst. of the population in 2003 to 85 pst. in 2008. But if something has gone the right way, it's still very, very, very long again in terms of both corruption, human rights – not least women's rights that many people have been concerned about here – and weak public institutions in general. On a number of parameters, Afghanistan continues to be the worst country in the world. From such a perspective, it is important that we in Norway are clear that we should be a long-term aid partner with Afghanistan, and the Left is therefore behind the promise of 750 million. kr per year out of 2017. Nor do we rule out that this is something we have to continue after 2017, sail if, of course, it is a goal to make Afghanistan less dependent on aid. We also largely agree with the priorities of sectors notified by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech, with the highest levels of governance, democracy and human rights, as well as education and rural development. Nor do we disagree with the fact that we have to make high demands on our assistance and demands on the recipients. It is important that the projects we contribute to support, throughout our aid exposure, make the Afghans responsible and are made into projects that are also owned locally – not only are we coming and doing. Following the adoption by NATO of a clear deadline for the closure of ISAF in 2011, there are many who have expressed scepticism about the correct procedure. We in the Left have had a waiting attitude on that, because we think it's right that when we go into such an assignment with our partners, we should also go out with our partners. It may be that that decision should have been made at an earlier time, but it will be soon after time. What is important now, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stressed, is that Afghanistan cannot be left to itself, sail if ISAF ends. The left has already announced that at an overall level we are positive for any participation in the Resolute Support mission, but we await the government's assessment and details in the arrangement. One of the most important issues for the Left in Afghanistan in recent years has been the setting up of an overall evaluation of Norway’s efforts and commitment to Afghanistan. There has been a slow process that began very lonely, but has received more and more support in the hall. It's about learning and getting better, it's about honoring those who have done the job, but it's also about having a healthy, open debate related to international participation like this. We have made proposals several times in the past without having a majority. That is why we are very pleased that we have a majority now, and that we now see a government that will have a broad mandate and a broad composition of the sample. We have had many debates here that I would like the government to take part in when they are going to deal with this further. I welcome the fact that the Stortinget is being consulted on both terms of reference and composition. Then, like both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, I would like to end by thanking all those who have done a job in Afghanistan on behalf of Norway, and not least those who have paid the highest price that can be expected for it – their contribution will never be forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e498	Let me first start by thanking the Secretary of State and the Minister of Defence for the results of the previous week and starting at the same place as they did. The whole of the Norwegian discussion on Afghanistan has many aspects, from the situation in the country, priorities in the Norwegian defence and security policy, to what extent it was right or not, to more overarching value dimensions. In my post today, I will focus on some perspectives that are now up to date. First, I will begin where the Foreign Minister began, simply with the election. I think there's a reason to stop at what we have to say is a very positive first round. There is a very positive voter turnout of 58 pst., and there is a strong commitment to implementation – if I am not mistaken, there were several hundred out of 6000-7000 polls that had to close for security reasons – and a strong willingness to re-establish the challenges with it. We are sincerely hoping that the second round of elections will be held on 14 June in a way that gives a legitimate choice. This will be important progress for Afghanistan. I think it also shows the importance that Norway and other countries over time — in the years to come — will support the construction of a robust democracy. In a democracy, electoral processes are only a small part. A democracy requires good and well-functioning public institutions from the ministry down. It requires educational institutions at all levels that function, to have functioning higher education and university systems that train people, for example, having a civil society, organisations that can participate in debate, have a medium. The fact that Norway is slowly, but surely can support progress in those areas, I think is an important priority that we should do. I believe it is very important and positive that Norway informs us that we will even contribute at least 750 million in 2017. kr in development aid. I can imagine challenging the Minister for Foreign Affairs to say a little bit more about how Norway in the years to come will work so that we will not become a lonely cool, but a part of a wide mobilization of countries that feel a strong responsibility. There are countries that could have contributed significantly more when they reduce their military presence and the costs of spending on it significantly in the years to come. That's where I think Norway can have a task of contributing to that there's going to be a common promise that we're part of. Let me say a few words about some other issues related to the Afghanistan debate. One is the evaluation, because I am extremely busy that if it is to be a useful evaluation we can learn from, it must be a truly independent assessment, where we politicians – who collectively have a responsibility for the mission we have sent Norwegian women and men to and be part of now 13 years – can be seen in the cards of others who do not have the same responsibility. That's why I think that a model that has emerging people from different political parties will be an unfortunate model. There will be a composite where a lot of those in the whole selection have strong leads for what they want to mean. What we need, on the contrary, is professional expertise, people who are not responsible for the decision, but who have good knowledge of the basis of the decisions that have been taken, about what could have been done differently, where we can learn lessons. The second thing I want to say is that there must be broad competence, as we had a round about in this Chamber six months ago, which also made it clear that there must be military, political and aided social understanding of Afghan society and the efforts that have been there. In the end, VG wrote a few days ago about how the Norwegian defence, according to VG, had provided interpreters in connection with the Norwegian operation and, at the time they were added, were under 18 years of age. The head of the People's Rights Section of the Red Cross, Mads Harlem, said to VG that if that's right, it will clearly fall within the definition of child labour. I hope the Minister of Defense here can say a few words about both what the facts are, and how she will follow it up to figure out what's right, and make the Storting and the people aware of what the facts are, and what one does with any problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e515	It is positive that we have had a broad consensus on the Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan. Central challenges such as terrorism, corruption, human rights violations and low economic growth require targeted efforts by the new Afghan government with the support of Norway and our allies and partners. At the same time, the debate sheds light on many of the fundamental and good progress made by the Afghans with our support over the last decade. A nuanced and correct picture of Afghanistan today does not speak for hopelessness but for the introduction. It is not difficult to find problems with international support. It is a lot worse to contribute to good solutions. Our hope is that the overall assessment and evaluation to next year will be able to give us some pointer sticks that can be useful for the future, considering both similar situations and future bets in Afghanistan. As I also said in the statement, the government will consult the Storting on this mandate and the composition. This will be an important investigative work for the further investment in Afghanistan, but also to learn lessons for other initiatives in the future. On the issue of development aid in the future to Afghanistan, we stand firm on what was the starting point for the so-called Tokyo Declaration. We have committed up to an aid level of 750 million. kr. This year we've invested 700 million. kr. This is because Afghanistan itself did not put up and implement the necessary reforms in the fight against corruption and for women’s rights. In these areas, we will be uncompromising in the future. I agree with what has been said, that we need to mobilise several countries to support the important development work in one of the world's poorest countries, Afghanistan, and there will be a ministerial meeting following Tokyo in November this year, where there will be an important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e530	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e534	There has been a lot of discussion among some NATO countries about the separation of defence and assistance. What are the Foreign Minister's considerations about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e541	We are continuing the policy in this area. We have ambitious targets for future developments in Afghanistan, in terms of both education, health and rural development in the districts of Afghanistan. With regard to the further involvement of the defence, this will be due to the establishment of a bilateral security agreement. Both presidential candidates, both Abdullah Abdullah and Ghana, have said that they will sign such an agreement within 24 hours of their election and deployment. There will be a separate debate, discussion and consultation related to the further Norwegian involvement in training Afghan security forces, in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e550	I thank you for the good considerations, but I guess that's not really what I asked. I want answers as to whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that it has been right, in Afghanistan, to keep the aid and the defence work separately, and whether there is also an experience that he has done in this work, that there has been a correct position from the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e557	I said well that we should continue what has been Norwegian policy in this area in Afghanistan. The representative knows what has been the basis for that. What has been important is to distinguish between humanitarian efforts and those related to defence efforts and the more security policy work. I don't see any reason to make any changes at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e564	I am pleased with the approach taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence around evaluation, and I am also pleased with the signals now being given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in his brief comment on the Stortinget. The representative, Solhell, had some interesting thoughts about this with political expertise and party education, which I share, while I am also concerned that political competence should not be exclusive. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: How does he think about how the parties can be taken care of, but also about the organisation of this work? It should be a holistic evaluation. Is it the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that is now given the primary responsibility for organising this, and how can we also succeed in getting a neutral, independent evaluation, which we are all concerned with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e573	As I said during my presentation and repeated today, the Storting will be brought into this work on an evaluation. It is important, as the representative Hareide now stresses, that we have a professionally heavy evaluation group. It may be problematic to find people who are completely neutral in this regard, but there should be a wide-ranging group. In the consultations with the Stortinget we will be able to discuss the appropriateness of having more typical party political representatives. I think the most important thing is to have a broad-based evaluation group, which has good international competence, which has experience from Afghanistan, who knows what works, for example. in the field of development policy, and how we can strengthen the processes that we want to strengthen in the future and that have a good background from security policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e580	No, neutrality exists in very few questions, but party political independence exists. What also exists is human beings who do not feel directly or indirectly responsible for decisions that are made, but who can be entirely independent, positive, negative or even reflected around them, and who have professional insight into the issues. I perceive them as the signals the Foreign Minister gives about how he thinks there, as very positive. What I could think of asking is, can the government think, which they have now chosen to do in terms of Afghanistan, also in other major military foreign operations, to let it be a template that one evaluates in retrospect? The Libya operation is such an example. It's a much shorter and much smaller, but still significant, operation, and it's going to be a foreign job. Can the government imagine making it a constant practice that a critically evaluating it has been a part of, when Norway is involved in an operation or a war?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e587	With the large Norwegian contribution both military and developmental, it is natural that we now evaluate Afghanistan after more than ten years. I'm glad there's a broad consensus in Stortinget. I don't think we can point to the corresponding engagement anywhere else recently. It's about billions of dollars in development aid and large military contributions through ISAF. As far as Libya is concerned, there was a much shorter commitment, which the representative is probably well aware of. If it is a strong wish of the representative that we should go through carefully, for example. The short-term operation in Libya, of course, we'll evaluate it. But I think that if we are to carry out an evaluation, there must be a broader Norwegian commitment over time, and that through it we are seeking to gather information that can be the governing force for Norwegian involvement in the future – because that must be the basis for that evaluation report, that it should provide us with transparency that can shape a future-oriented Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e599	I would first like to thank you for your contributions and for the support that is underlined for the efforts that have been made, and also for the line that has been followed. That means a lot, among other things. for those who have served and who are still serving, and that also means a great deal to their family and relatives. So I think there's come a lot of wise and good perspectives in the debate from everyone who's had the word, and there's things that we put up to follow up as well as possible. As I mentioned in my presentation, I attended last week's Defence Minister's meeting in NATO, where the discussion of the Resolute Support Mission was a topic. It is, as it has been stressed several times, not possible for us to give any final assessment of whether we are going to contribute, and in that case with what, until there comes a formal request from NATO, and until we know the framework for this mission. Having said that, I also said on Thursday, and I would like to repeat here, that we are planning for all options – to participate with a limited contribution, but also not to participate, and that will be crucial for the framework of the operation. Then I would like to pick up the point of the representative Trine Skei Grande, namely that if Norway decides to participate further after a regular consultation with the Stortinget, the Afghanistan statements should also continue. That's something I support wholeheartedly. If the Storting wants to, both the Foreign Minister and I will continue to report on developments in Afghanistan. Over the nearly 13 years we have been in Afghanistan, many positive results have been achieved in the field of security. Al Qaida is significantly weakened, and other terrorist organisations have reduced their leeway. Afghan security forces have been strengthened and to a far greater extent able to provide security for their own population. At the same time, however, significant challenges remain. I think everyone sees that. As I stressed in my statement on Thursday, in the future we will also be able to see that traditional lines of conflict are in force in Afghan society. The Afghan security forces will therefore remain dependent on NATO support. They must maintain and further develop their capacities. Several aspects related to Afghans who have been locally employed by the Defence Department have received attention lately. The special arrangement whereby local staff interpret and others with a direct employment relationship with the Defence Agency may apply for a stay in Norway from Afghanistan is a continuation of the arrangements established by the previous government. Then it is important for me to stress what is the role of defence in this context. It is now, as was the case in the previous round, to provide administrative support to the foreign authorities in the conduct of an interview, in transport and in safety and other administrative functions. In addition, the Defense Service has provided confirmations to the UDI on employment and other related information. It is also important to stress here that it is UDI and the foreign agencies that are dealing with asylum issues. Neither the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence, nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do. It's always been like that, and it's still going to be like that. In the case of the few things happening in the media, this is the thing that's outstanding after the first round, that is, when we pulled down our presence in Faryab. I would like to stress that these are issues that do not follow the normal procedures for dealing with housing cases, and that the proceedings have thus been quite demanding. The defence now goes through all archives both in Norway and in Afghanistan to find as much information as possible about local staff and thus to support the foreign agencies at their request. Then there have been claims in the media that the defense has used minor interpreters. Here is my starting point sunny: if this has happened, it is very unfortunate, and it will not happen. The rules – and the leaders from the political level – are perfectly clear, and I assume that they have been followed. The defence has now embarked on a very extensive effort to bring the facts to the fore. The claims made are so far unsubstantiated by the Defence. At the same time, it is worth noting that two of the four persons concerned who have made these claims now admit that they have deliberately lied about their age. This is a challenge that is not unknown, but the defence is now using a lot of resources to launch the necessary investigations to bring the actual situation to an end.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e618	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e622	I'm glad the Minister of Defense is ready for the use of minor interpreters. But I want to ask the same question to the Minister of Defence that I asked to the Minister of Foreign Affairs – whether she has gained other experience now, after she became Minister of Defence, in keeping aid and defence separate in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e629	We've been up through the years we've been engaged in Afghanistan, looking at different aspects of this commitment. I think it's natural that it becomes an important part of the evaluation. Therefore, as the Council of State, I do not want to conclude here in advance, but I believe that what the Minister of Foreign Affairs says about an important aspect of this, namely how to maintain the humanitarian space, is an important issue. However, there are many actors in a conflict scene such as in Afghanistan, also because our efforts have been holistic all the way, and they have had a wide range, ranging from diplomatic instruments to military instruments – and humanitarian and also political instruments related to the aid and development of society in a different direction from that desired by the Taliban. That means that we have to make sure that what we do is in a whole context, and we have to make sure that we do it in the most reasonable way possible. This is one of the things that it is natural to look at in the forthcoming evaluation, because it has clearly led the work that Norway has done in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e634	As I read this answer, there is an opening in what the Minister of Defence now says, because she wants a wide-ranging debate on this as part of the evaluation. Is it true that, as part of the discussion on the evaluation, she is opening up to greater coordination of aid work and defence, and that she no longer wants to maintain the principle distance between these two areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e639	When the so-called Norwegian model was added to the previous government, the prerequisite for having a military-civil distinction was that there should be close coordination. I think it is quite natural that we now, when we review the overall effort that Norway has made, look at this aspect too – whether it has been successful or not. I think that's quite natural. It has laid strong leadership in how we have fulfilled our mission in Afghanistan. It also means that it is a natural part of the big and broad evaluation we are going to carry out. I think that's natural.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e644	It is, of course, quite unacceptable to use children for defence activities in Afghanistan, and I am also pleased that the Minister of Defence is so ready to do so. It should just be lacking that a person does not spend a little time figuring out what has happened, and I expect that we will be briefed when that time comes. But I notice in this last round that the Minister of Foreign Affairs said twice that the government is continuing the practice that the previous government had when it comes to military and civil separation, but since the Minister of Defence did not say so, I just want to clarify it. That practice is also passed on in the Ministry of Defence, I believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e651	As I said to the representative Huitfeldt, who asked if it is natural that this is part of the evaluation, the answer is: Yes, it is natural that this becomes part of the evaluation. In addition, that practice is firm, but I think it is natural that something that has shaped the Norwegian contribution so strongly is also part of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e656	What's my question about the extension of it is: when we look down on a broad evaluation, I expect that one looks at many different aspects of the operation we've been part of and the war in Afghanistan. But is it the case that the Minister of Defence still has some of the same reflections and considerations around them, which she expressed in several contexts publicly when she was the leader of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committee in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e661	Of course, I have many of the same reflections, and I think it's quite natural to ask these questions. I have no record of what the outcome of those discussions will be, on the contrary, I want an open, inclusive and good evaluation. However, I believe that such an important theme as the so-called Norwegian model must also be subject to evaluation. What I think about it, in this context, really doesn't matter, because that's what the evaluation comes up, which is crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e666	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e669	Let me also thank you for the presentations. The debate so far shows that there is still a broad consensus on our involvement in Afghanistan, both civil and military, and both the temperature and the outcome of the debate are probably also an expression that there is not so much to fight about here. In general, the same picture is drawn in the year’s accounts as that drawn one year ago. The main task has been solved – Afghanistan is no longer and will not again be a haven of international terrorism, experience has been pre-acquired for animal consumption. The Afghans themselves, even more today than last year, are able to take responsibility for security. Our remaining – and other countries – soldiers are in the background, like teachers and mentors. I think everyone is looking forward to this broad evaluation, but let's not forget that there has been an ongoing evaluation and learning. The defence has undergone experience and transferred its experience from one quota to the next. Assistance efforts have also been evaluated, and not least through these presentations and debates, the Storting carried out an ongoing evaluation and evaluation of our efforts. So it's not like we've gone into this and been there for 13 years without learning anything and without evaluating anything. But it's useful to have an overall review. The first round of the presidential elections has been carried out in a reasonably good way, and we must believe that the second round will confirm this positive development. I believe that the main challenges for the future are now more political and economic than security. The country is facing its first democratic presidential change. But will one be able to create a political process that is inclusive and that includes all groups in this fragmented society, including the Taliban? Will there be a political basis for fulfilling the commitments made by the country, in the Tokyo Conference? And what about the commitments in the development agreement with Norway? This, as others have also pointed out, will be crucial for our and the other international community's willingness to continue to contribute to development, as the Foreign Minister also stressed in his statement. Corruption must be combated – including in the judiciary – financial management must be reformed, a democratic system must be given the opportunity to root, and fundamental human rights and the position of women must be respected. Will it be possible to bring about economic development? Just think of the situation that may arise when the safety forces are to be reduced by more than 100000. If they don't get a civil job to do, an ambitious warlord can be tempting employment. These are the biggest challenges. It is the challenges to overcome centuries of cultural roots and religious traditions. Much remains to be done in Afghanistan to feed pessimism. But there's also a lot of positive happening, especially in the big cities. Meymaneh, where we have been responsible, has become a dynamic economic center in Faryab. Half a million people have access to clean water and health businesses in this province. Agricultural production has increased, incomes of farmers have also increased. Artificial irrigation gives two growing seasons. Over 100 schools are built with Norwegian money. The fight against illiteracy. And, as others have pointed out, the proportion of girls who now get school is happily high compared to what it was. Hope may lie primarily in the country’s young population – 60 pst. Of the 35 million are under 20 years old – wanting out of misery, and in their dreams of another Afghanistan. These ten to twelve years have not only been conflicted and burdened. They have also represented a break in the isolation of the Taliban – a view to the outside world, towards new impulses, and the prospect of a different and better society. We must both hope and believe that there are cimers of the political power needed to master the political task of building a better society that respects human rights and consolidates democratic development. If the political project is to succeed, it needs inclusion and reconciliation, but above all, stronger national structures need to be built, as our assistance is directed towards. The international donor society must support institutions, not individuals. The work in Afghanistan is far from complete, as the Minister of Defence stressed. But our military efforts in the country are coming to an end. Our soldiers have done a brilliant job. The price has been high. Ten have lost their lives, and many will have to live with damage – physical and mental. Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence pointed out that we could be called for military contributions beyond 2014. They went a long way in suggesting that the government was prepared for a yes, given the right frames. There are a lot of elements that are going into such an assessment, but let me point to one element, which is important that we have consciousness around. Our contributions over 13 years have given the Defence a great deal of recognition. So do our contributions in the Gulf of Aden and Libya. Several thousand soldiers and officers have gained valuable experience, knowledge and learning. It won't be the same to go back to exercises with free spins and markers on Bardufoss and Rena. Using your skills and knowledge properly involves risk, of course, but also positive elements. The last, the positive sides, can become a new element in the scale that taps into a yes to further participate in Afghanistan or in new international operations – a kind of nerd on the load. A knife that is not used becomes dull, it is said. I don't think this element should be part of the assessments if and when it comes to deciding whether we should also contribute militarily beyond what we have already committed ourselves to. An important stage in Afghanistan is soon to be completed. The next one becomes equally demanding, but in that stage the Afghans themselves have to sit in the driver's seat. Only those who can take responsibility for their own development – for their own economic development, to ensure that all groups and both sexes are mobilised in the construction of a new Afghanistan that offers Afghans a better future than the past. Finally, let me just comment a little bit on the post of the Chief Speaker of the Advancement Party, Christian Tybring-Gjedde. We did not go into Afghanistan to help the Afghans to a better future, we went into Afghanistan to prevent the country from becoming a marshal for Al Qaida again. And then the representative says we don't owe the Afghans anything. I believe that it is important to contribute to the development of one of the world's poorest countries – firstly, to prevent all that is now out of resources by Norway and the international community from being in vain because it is once again slipping the wrong path, and secondly because we believe that it is in our interest to combat poverty and violations of human rights and to combat women's oppression far away in countries too. It's called international solidarity, but it's a concept that obviously stands a little distant from the Chief Spokesman of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e707	There was a broad and thorough presentation by our two Councils on Afghanistan last week — about a country that has been in Norway’s focus in many different ways over the last 13 years, a country that is entering a transitional period and that has had the international community as a supportive companion, but which is now increasingly going to be doing itself. It gives cause for optimism that Afghanistan has now made a presidential election and will soon complete it in second round of elections. Two men are about that position, but I would like to talk more about Afghanistan's women and children than about male presidential candidates. There has been a major national and international focus on improving the humanitarian situation in Afghanistan. At the 2013 UN Human Development Index, Afghanistan was ranked number 175 out of 187 countries, and despite positive developments, large parts of the population still live under demanding humanitarian conditions. 36 pst. the population lives below the poverty line. As the Afghans themselves take responsibility for the country's security, our efforts will focus more on contributing to the civil development of the country. Our $750 million contribution. kr per year out of 2017 can do a good job if used correctly. In other words, we aim to be a long-term development partner. The aim of this government's aid policy will be to support countries in their efforts to reduce poverty, democracy and human rights. Development must then support changes that enable countries themselves to meet their population and obligations towards international society, climate and the environment. Assistance can never replace good governance from their own authorities. The Minister of Foreign Affairs explained that there are three main initiatives we will focus on separately in Afghanistan in the time to come, and the first is precisely good governance, democracy and human rights. Afghan institutions working for human rights in general and women's rights in particular will be very important partners. 13 years after the demise of the women's hostile Taliban regime has changed a lot for Afghan women. Access to education and healthcare is better, especially in Kabul and the major cities. The Christian Michelsen Institute in Bergen has done a thorough job of identifying the status of women in Afghanistan. The most important thing for Afghan women activists in the last decades has been to maintain women's legal rights, especially in relation to family violence and forced marriage, and when the family does not want to live up to women's rights in the allocation of values and property, such as in the case of inheritance rights, for example. Afghan women have poor protection when abuse and domestic violence occur. However, women can reach several places of work, study, walk alone – an unimaginable thought just a few years ago. The second area of activity of the Minister for Foreign Affairs was education, not least the right of girls to education. In Afghanistan lives 80 pst. of the rural population, estimated to be only 28 pst. by the rural girls in Afghanistan go to school. Some of the grounds are the lack of suitable or completely missing buildings. The safety situation is also very difficult in many places. Access to education and healthcare has improved for large sections of the population. Despite the revolution in education in Afghanistan, which the Afghanistan Committee rightly calls a success story, the quality of education is a challenge, especially in rural areas. Access to education for vulnerable groups is also a major problem. In the field of mental health protection, provision is also minimal. It is important that development aid reaches vulnerable groups, such as mental health services for the population of the warring country. Given that more than half of the population of Afghanistan is under 25 years of age, the educational effort is particularly important here. After all, it is all the young generation that will build the new Afghanistan in the future – not least girls who will contribute in families and villages – and it is also particularly important that the last area of activity pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is precisely rural development. It's in the village the social formation of the children happens, that's where the population's life base lies, and that's where the closest political and economic development also has to happen. The women play a major role all over the world in this little universe. They can do even better with education and health care for themselves and their children. Many evaluations of international assistance to Afghanistan over recent years conclude, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the country is one of the most difficult countries to provide assistance to. The main challenges ahead are political and economic developments in Afghanistan. This is why the thematic effort for Norway’s continued commitment, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is so right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e729	Like everyone else, I would like to thank both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for their excellent presentations. The debate so far shows that there is a cross-political consensus that Norwegian civil and military involvement in Afghanistan has been important, and for several reasons – in order to prevent Afghanistan from becoming a marshal for international terrorism, to enable the Afghans to take responsibility for their own security and to lay the foundations for Afghanistan to build a state and to take responsibility for development and education itself in terms of democracy. In many of these areas, a lot has happened, but we have another long way to go. Foreign Minister Brende confirmed that Norway will continue the major transfers to the Afghan State. It is important, and we all agree that the development of good governance and democracy requires sound state institutions, structures and the building of competences. We see this happening through the support we give to the Afghan state in important areas of society such as education, public administration and, above all, health. Then I agree with those who believe that when corruption stands in the way of development within human rights and women's positions as far as it does in Afghanistan, we shall do everything we can to not exacerbate this. In the presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, there was little focus on the important work being done by civil society in Afghanistan. Civil society points to weaknesses that are part of everyday life in Afghanistan. It is civil society that ensures a lack of opinion and critical debate and makes it uncomfortable for the authorities when they act contrary to what they have undertaken to do. I believe, as many as, that the millions removed from this year's aid budget should perhaps have gone to support Afghan civil society actors. Hopefully they get the attention they deserve on the next crossroads. As both ministers and several of the speakers have been so clear, a lot has been done, but we are very close to the goal. A key in this context can be security, and it is not just about security for the people of Afghanistan, but about a global perspective, including us in Norway. All too often, we receive images from terrorist actions somewhere in Afghanistan, planned actions that have only one goal, to create as much chaos as possible and devilishness. We saw it in the election – in other words, politically motivated actions in which the political message was replaced with bullets and powdered. But fortunately, we see evidence that these cancers do not bring the people with them. Despite threats and the implementation of new terrorist actions, the election of a new president was successful. The Afghan people, despite this, went to the polls. It stands by it, and it nevertheless shows that the fight for democracy and human rights is not threatened by terrorists. As the Minister of Defence said in his statement, important work remains for the ISAF countries and Afghanistan, where a gradual transfer of security responsibilities to Afghan security forces has been agreed by the end of this year. It's a demanding job. Much is done, but much remains. The Minister of Defence referred to the decision of the Storting on 25 February this year to carry out an overall evaluation of Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan. There have been several representatives, and the Minister of Defence has also said something about it, so I'm not going to say anything more about it. But there are many of us who are looking forward to that happening. Because we've been involved in the operations, we've also learned a lot about good and bad. You can take both of them further. And in particular, we've seen it in the Defense Department. Experience gained along the way has been transferred for each new quota sent to Afghanistan. It just makes you feel better. Not least, it is important to ensure the safety of our crews on this kind of mission. Even as a committee, we were so lucky to meet representatives of the army's special forces and from Telemark battalion during our visit to Rena Camp for a short time. There we were also confirmed how useful participation has been in Afghanistan and in other missions. I think I'd say on behalf of the committee that we were more than impressed. Without getting into details, I am convinced that our soldiers are contributing strongly to the mission they have had, and still have, in Afghanistan. It benefits the nation of Norway, but also the community of our soldiers are part of when they participate in international operations, a mission that creates content in the word ‘security’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e748	First, I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for the good and wide presentation. Last Friday I was present as a relative when Norwegian soldiers were honored and received their operating medal for operations in Afghanistan. It was a worthy and beautiful ceremony, with many reflections to reflect on. The force has served in the Police Advisory Team in Mazar-e Sharif in North Afghanistan, where they have run advice and training for the Afghan police. The chief of staff had a good approach to the work they have done in training the police force, where he among other things. said, "We haven't gone ahead to lead the Afghan police force, because we didn't know if they'd follow us." We haven't gone back, because we didn't know if we would follow them to where they would go. But we have gone side by side and helped with guidance, so that they can be able to deal with the challenges themselves in the future. This approach is what our forces have been working on. Our main contribution to the police force's work has been to help Afghans find their own solutions, so that they can deal with police work in the future without guidance and support. We have now completed our efforts in North Afghanistan. Our main task now and the next six months is to advise and train the Afghan Special Police Unit in Kabul, Crisis Response Unit. Norway has contributed 7.6 billion. kr in aid to Afghanistan since 2001 and will contribute an additional 750 million. kr every year until 2017. Norway has ambitions to make assistance more effective in achieving concrete results. Afghanistan remains one of the poorest and most conflict-affected countries in the world. Our goal is that, with its own efforts and international support, it should be able to become a country capable of standing on its own feet. But Afghanistan is one of the most difficult countries in the world to provide assistance. The country is struggling with a high degree of corruption and poor public administration. Safety challenges make it difficult to follow the assistance money up to the end-user. Last summer the Afghans took over the management of the security of the country. The closure of ISAF is well under way and will be completed by the end of the year. Although ISAF will end, there will still be a need for the international community to support the development of Afghanistan with both aid and continued advice and training of Afghan security forces and Afghan police. As of January 2015, the United States will participate with soldiers in a new NATO-led operation, the Resolute Support Mission, mentioned here on several occasions, which will have a mandate to contribute to the training of Afghan forces. A prerequisite for American support is that other NATO countries provide relevant strength support. When we look at what we have achieved in advising and training the Afghan police, special forces and military personnel in recent years, I think it is right that Norway takes responsibility further and participates with the United States and other NATO countries in the new operation, the Resolute Support Mission, for further training and education for increased security in the country. Our main contribution is to help Afghans find sustainable solutions for their own safety and development, so that they can make the most of their own in the future. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to the peace development in Afghanistan – those who have participated, relatives at home and those who have given the greatest sacrifice for peace, their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e774	Let me start with what many people have ended up with: giving a great deal of thanks to all Norwegian women and men who have participated in Afghanistan to make Afghanistan a better country. Let me also thank all the Afghans, with and without pay, who have done exactly the same, make their country a better country, and at the same time help us increase the security of our people. And – not to forget anyone – let me also thank representatives of other ISAF nations who have been in Afghanistan and have done a job with us. That's the result of what we've been able to do, which is equal to the final result in Afghanistan. There is no doubt that Afghanistan is a country that affects us regularly and occasionally challenges us strongly. When I read the statement from the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, it strikes me that it has been so long and it has cost us so much that it has to somehow be a success. With all possible respect, I believe that we could be tougher in some areas, because it is a paradox to discuss Afghan solutions in Norway. It would have been very interesting if someone from the countryside, who was mentioned here, had been sitting up here today and listening to us, to hear how they assessed our view of their lives. You have to have a lot of respect for that. That doesn't mean we don't have the best intentions, but a Western solution isn't always the best for another country, including Afghanistan. I see that the Foreign Minister says that we have somehow stopped the terror. I'm not sure. It's possible we've put a lid on it, but if it's stopped, only the future will show. When we look at the Afghanistan neighbourhood, the challenges are in line, and the Taliban is still up to those degrees. Then I thought I'd share a couple of experiences with you. I've had the pleasure of visiting Afghanistan quite many times, and it's always been challenging and exciting. A few years ago, I visited Ashraf Ghani – at his home in his garden – with some Danish and British parliamentarians. During that season we were allowed to ask him some questions. One of my Danish colleagues asked Ashraf Ghani if he wanted to be Presidential candidate in 2014, on which Ghana replenished the following quite dryly: Who knows we’ll be living in 2014? It testifies to a different attitude to life than what we're facing – a soberness, a reality orientation, which we might not have. At the same time, I once had the joy of being in South Afghanistan and meeting a fantastic young man – 32 years old, district governor, who ruled over about. 140 000 people. We asked him about the fight against corruption, whereupon he smilingly turned to us and said, Corruption, why should we care about corruption when the legislators in Kabul do not? When they go ahead and take their own responsibility, we're going to follow up, but when the people who run the nation don't care, he said, why should we do that? It was an interesting reflection, too, but what was inherent in those I met was a desire to influence their own country to become something better than it is today. You have a desire that everyday life should be better, that your family should feel better, that you should have security. We can discuss health issues, we can discuss school issues, we can discuss girls' schools up and down, but the most important thing is safety in everyday life. Without security in everyday life, security for yourself and your family, there will be other details. The basis is to make Afghanistan safer. If we did it, I don't know. But Norway has an ambition to contribute, I think it's good, and I think it's a matter of course, because we've been through and experiencing things ourselves that no one wants to do again. We've been through periods where we've been totally dependent on the support of others to build up Norway until what it is today. If not, with our opportunities economically, socially and structurally – in every possible way – we would contribute, who in the world would do that? I mean, there's a moral obligation on us to do that. People get to wonder, but I count myself a good Frp, and I think it's important that people get an opportunity to create their own happiness. If we take it away, what do we have left of momentum? I think that people are basically able to find good solutions for themselves and the family, and then they have to live with the constraints given to them politically. Finally, I am glad that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very clear on the evaluations. I think there are many things you should look at. One should look at the mandate given – was it clear enough? You have to look at the bets we made, the PRT solutions. There were very different solutions in Afghanistan. Norway had its PRT solution, Turkey had its own. There have been great differences, and I hope at least one thing: when you look at all those who have lost their lives there, and out of respect for them, I believe that ISAF and NATO – and the UN, for that matter – should have a review of the overall outcome. And then we have to look at opium and opium production, because it is undoubtedly a financial factor for the Taliban.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e791	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e794	I would also like to thank you for good and thorough explanations, and it is very much wise that has been said in the debate so far today. When the theme is Afghanistan and our broad commitment to the country, it's also close to pulling a parallel, a line, to the 70th anniversary of the D-day. We have honored those who participated and who sacrificed their lives for a free Europe. And the nation's gratitude is conveyed. No one is touched by the message of the few surviving veterans. ‘Those who fought on the beaches of Normandy did it for something more than the flag they had on their arms’, as VG’s commentator so aptly described it. Norwegian soldiers who have participated in Afghanistan over these years have also done something more – for the UN and NATO, for freedom and democracy. In my home municipality, we honor the intelligence officer Trond Petter Kolset, who is one of the ten Norwegian soldiers who have sacrificed their lives in service in Mazar-e Sharif, Afghanistan. Our thoughts go to the families who are left, and to those who are now veterans. I am proud of the government's work to make it easier to deal with life as a veteran and left behind after such a mission, both economically and otherwise. At the same time, it is important to highlight the work done by all the Nordics who have contributed in Afghanistan. Humanitarian assistants, civil servants, have also taken a very high personal risk. We're going to be self-critical and see if anything could and should have been done differently. In total, however, I believe that we have achieved a great deal in Afghanistan through the long-term assistance, humanitarian efforts and military contributions. Previously, the country was a haven for Al Qaida. It's not anymore. We should continue to offer assistance through NATO and with civil contributions so that Afghans can build a secure future. Our soldiers in the ISAF team have performed a mission as professionals. At the same time, they have used themselves, perhaps as the most important instrument through the daily building of contact with and trust in the local population in the local settings where they have been stationed. They have gained experience that we will take with us in the forthcoming major evaluation, which will undoubtedly be important to improve Norwegian defence, assistance and NATO in the future. Back to D-day: Whoever doesn't know the story is doomed to live it again, it says on the memory support in Auschwitz. Soon the time witnesses will be gone. Then it is our responsibility to make sure that history is not forgotten, and that it is relayed and communicated to the growing family and new generations. A number of teams point out that the school is now passing on the history of World War II to a small extent. If that is the case, I think it is timely with a political initiative, so that those who have gone ahead and fought for our freedom and our democracy – whether it happens on Omaha Beach or in Afghanistan – get the mission and the history conveyed as part of the school's natural societal mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e809	Let me first make a brief comment to the representative Rodum Agdestein's posts on Normandy. After spending two days in Normandy with seven of our veterans who are now in the middle of the 90s, I can tell you that it was a tremendous experience, not least to experience the huge reception they received from the locals 70 years later, with applause and applause. So I think it's important to stress that both the Foreign Minister and I in our posts have been very closely related to what we've achieved. Yes, we have achieved a lot, but at the same time there are still significant challenges. We have also been aware that, although Afghanistan is no longer a haven for international terrorism, that Al Qaida is weakened and other terrorist organisations have had less leeway, there will still be challenges. I think that's an important recognition of what we're going to do in the future. Then I want to link some comments to something I didn't want to say about in my previous post, and that's the experience transfer done in the defense. Several people have been involved in it afterwards. As I also mentioned in my presentation, it is a great deal of documentation, experience and learning that is transferred from one quota to another. There are constant assessments of how to solve the task even a little better on the next quota, and all this experience material is being carefully preserved and implemented in the Defence, both for the operation we are still in, and for any future operations. It is important that the work is systematised well because it provides a very valuable basis for both how we put our efforts in place and also for the evaluation that is to be done now. That's why it's important that we still do that. We have many with very good experience from his stay in Afghanistan, not least with great operational experience. And then we have someone who's struggling, and they're important that we take care of this operation as well. But I'm very busy stressing what I also stressed in my statement, namely that we need to keep an eye on the fact that the ISAF operation is an ongoing operation, where soldiers will still feel at risk, where we will continue to experience challenges. So it's not a closed operation in the past, it's an ongoing operation in the present, and I think it's very important to underline it. Then I just want to make a brief comment on the question of the 50 million that have been deducted from the aid budget. This is the foreign minister's responsibility, but I would still like to comment that when I was in Afghanistan last fall, UNAMA's representatives – uninvited – were committed to stressing that it was a proper act because for the first time it contributed to making the Afghans responsible and, not least, to showing that the Afghans were taken seriously, saying that if you do not fulfil their obligations, it has no consequences. So it was only received positively from UNAMA's side, and I think it's an important lesson for later on as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e822	I would like to start by expressing my gratitude and a great thank you to all Norwegian officials and women, military and civil, for the great and important effort they have made over several years in Afghanistan. Thanks to each of you more than 8,500 Northmen who have served in Afghanistan, and a special thanks and tribute to the Northmen who have lost their lives in service for Norway in Afghanistan. We remember you in reverence. I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for good and insightful presentations. The announced overall evaluation of Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan is also something I look forward to. Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan has been important but at the same time very demanding. It came in response to an attack against another NATO country. Through the attacks on the United States on 11 September 2001, the world witnessed how wrong it can be when radical Islamists pursue their dreams in practice. The dreams of the Islamists are our nightmares. Afghanistan was in 2001 a haven for such anti-human thinking and organised evil. Norway, together with other allies, assumed a responsibility to ensure that this would change. Afghanistan was no longer to act as an armistice and a haven for international terrorism. As we approach the overall evaluation, the question we should be asking is whether we have succeeded in Afghanistan, and what should be the criteria for us to say that we have succeeded. When we choose to engage in such a way as we have done in Afghanistan, there is a great and demanding responsibility. This responsibility does not end at the exit of ISAF, but at the same time the Norwegian involvement will naturally be different in the future than it has been until now. We have to settle down that Afghanistan will hardly ever be a democracy and a society that creates perfect recognition with our eyes. When we follow the current presidential election, we will have to admit that «good enough» is more comprehensive than «perfect». We must be able to rejoice that we will now witness the first presidential change between elected presidents in Afghanistan ever. It is also possible to welcome the fact that participation in elections in Afghanistan is much higher than in the EU in the recent elections to the European Parliament. We must also recognize that the Afghans themselves must choose their way for the future. We know it's coming back along the way. That we recognize this is important. We can, and we have to, set up the Afghans in the years that come, but we can't, and we can't, go their way or get in the way of them. The exposure in Afghanistan has also been a test piece for the Norwegian defence. Our men and women in uniform have delivered so that they carry out a demanding task. The mission has led our soldiers to have valuable operational experience that only helps to strengthen Norwegian defence, but also the main international organisation Norway is in, namely NATO. Now, in general, Afghanistan must be left to the Afghans themselves. It would not have been possible without that effort, among other things. Our own soldiers have made and the sacrifices they have given.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e841	I couldn't stop since I got an attack from the representative Hansen. He responded that I said we don't owe the Afghans anything. When you hear the truth, it won't be easy to accept for many Norwegian politicians. When we don't owe anything, that doesn't mean we're not going to help anyone. But no one in Afghanistan thinks we owe them anything, and neither should we. What we do in Afghanistan is to help the Afghans – because we want to help the Afghans. We want it to be help for self-help. That's the whole idea behind helping the Afghans. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde is not against helping the Afghans. But if the Afghans do not manage to control themselves after having received contributions after contributions, now 750 million. kr in the year, over several years, they are not able to control themselves. And at one point, our contribution to Afghanistan ends because they choose corruption or other relationships. We also have to take that over. And I have to wonder about the focus, especially in the questions that come from Huitfeldt and Solhjell. So, in an Afghanistan with enormous challenges, there are three questions about whether there is cooperation or conflict between defence and assistance. That's the focus. A small area for politicians to argue about. It is likely that News Day 18 will come and ask if they can argue about what goes on there. This is the focus today, when five ISAF soldiers were killed in Afghanistan. I think that's petty. And to the representative of Solhjell, who was most concerned with the fact that there was a 17-year-old who has been an interpreter: think so awful, a 17-year-old in Afghanistan, who is probably considered an adult man, has been an interpreter, and that's the main focus. It was called the representative Solhjell child labour. Again, relations in Norway are transferred to Afghanistan. It is not possible to look at the situation in Afghanistan just as it is assessed in Norway. So I'm actually disappointed with the opposition, that the focus is so narrow, instead of seeing the big conditions and assistance in a larger context, not least in the neighborhood and what's happening in Pakistan and elsewhere. You have to see this in context, see the big lines, and not focus on small, Norwegian, petty debates, which perhaps also the journalists will address tomorrow – small, Norwegian debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e854	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e868	We discuss the position of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee on the annual reports of the Storting from the Permanent Delegations of the Storting to International Parliamentary Assemblys. So it is Document 17 for 2013–2014 we discuss. It is a unanimous committee that commends the work being done. I just want to point out that it shows the width of the work that's going on. It is an important work, and it is a unanimous committee that greatly appreciates this work. I also want to thank the many large-scale representatives who do a very important and good job, and who also represent the Storting in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e875	I just want to take the opportunity to add a few more comments to the EFTA/EEA delegation's work than the one in the vote. It's very happy to see that we now have a very broad participation from the members of the delegation. We're going with not only the six fixed places, but we're also going with the four goods. It gives us a breadth in terms of the scientific committees in Stortinget. In other words, the EEA work embraces all the professional committees in a more or less strong way. The fact that Stortinget now has a staff member in Brussels, and the fact that we now regularly receive information packages from the international department and the library on relevant issues in the EEA work, helps to give us the opportunity to keep up-to-date on the policy work that is taking place in Brussels and that comes to us in the form of directives and regulations. There is an increasing part of policy making that way. The fact that we are now also being sent new directives, new regulations, while going to the government, gives us the opportunity to participate in what may be of public debate around it. All committees and representatives receive it by e-mail. So far, I think we have an improvement potential in picking it up and taking the debate, so that we can participate and influence what is going to be the government's position, but also what is going on in the EU while the debate is going on down there. The second main area of this parliamentary committee is trade policy, i.e. EFTA cooperation. If there is one field I think we can agree to be neglected, not least here in the Chamber, it is trade policy. It is very rarely discussed in addition to the EEA declarations. So you could say that the EEA covers 80 pst. by Norway's foreign trade. However, increasing importance is attached to markets outside the EEA – in Asia, Africa, etc. The last free trade agreement with Costa Rica that we concluded here went well through here in the hall without a kind word on the way. This is probably an expression of broad consensus, but it is also an expression that we are not discussing trade policy. EFTA is now facing challenges in the EU and US negotiations on TTIP. We're on our way into new markets, not least in Africa, which raise some fundamental questions that I think will also come up here in the Chamber when we're going to ratify the Colombia Agreement. So I think we should find a basis for having a little more fundamental discussion about our EFTA work, that is our trade policy, beyond the EEA. It could be, for example, by means of a commercial policy statement which the Minister for Industry should assess whether she should ask the Stortingen to hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e886	I take the floor as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and refer to some of the experiences I have had in this House. We have visited the Secretary-General of NATO, who has been very nice. He's been patient, he's been listening and speaking openly to a lot of spokespersons. At the last meeting in Vilnius, he answered questions for two and a half hours, until noon. 21.30 in the evening, so I was very impressed by his efforts there. We find that the Secretary-General is concerned, as always before, that of the falling defence budgets, there are only three NATO countries out of the 28 who maintain their defence budgets at the level of which they have actually made promises. It is a great paradox, because Russia is rusting up on a large scale. Now it's like we're one of the three countries, but neither should we beat ourselves very hard on the chest. We should maybe prioritize this even higher than we've done now. I would like to mention two areas in which the NATO Parliamentary Assembly has committed itself – and will have to engage even more in the future. It concerns the development of increasingly advanced defence technologies. As advanced defence technology is increasingly developed, the defence industry is also increasingly advanced, not defence products, and more expensive defence technology. Cross-border cooperation is needed. More and more Member States are making cooperation less transparent and more complex. Not least, it makes it more complex that we have different cooperative constellations within the alliance – some are members here, and some are members there – that make it difficult to cooperate. It is a challenge — and an increasing challenge — in particular because the United States is also becoming more and more sovereign in the development of defence technology. Nordic cooperation is a classic example. You try to work together in the Nordic region. But then there are different cooperative constellations also in the Nordic countries, both here and there, and there are some difficulties in transferring the necessary information to develop the necessary defence technology, even if you wish. Another area that should be given attention is the many out of area operations in which NATO is gradually involved. These are armed conflicts that should not initially be NATO operations. 'Out of area' has become the norm instead of the exception, but no one really has talked so much about it, but that's actually the case. It should also be taken seriously by NATO parliamentarians and not allow the various governments to direct this process all too alone. So the question is, what will NATO's role be in the future? Then I believe that the parliamentarians must be better off keeping their own governments in mind, and we must not forget NATO's charter. It looks like some people don't have that much focus on it. I would just like to conclude by saying that next time, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will meet in Norway in October. Then we have a new Secretary-General. It will be one of the debuts of the new Secretary General Stoltenberg. It will be interesting to hear what he has to contribute. In the end, I will give a tribute to the International Secretariat of the Storting, which is systematic. They have clear and good background information for the travel we're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e909	Here comes a post from another member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, even a very long-standing member. Today the matter is initially about the work of the delegations last year. This is an undertaking we are through every year, as we heard mentioned by the case-rapporteur at the beginning of the debate – i.e. Now it is a little more effective by having one joint debate on the work of the parliamentary delegations, rather than many. My speech today is not about what happened in 2013 but about what has happened since 2013 and what has happened in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly – that is. one of the things that's happened. It's about the relationship with Russia, which has changed dramatically in just a few months. In the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, it is the Member States that are initially in the governing bodies. The countries that are members of NATO are also members of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. In addition, the Parliamentary Assembly operates with associated members, who are the countries with which a close cooperation has been established. In addition, there are also observer countries, with whom one also cooperates, but not as closely as the associated members. Russia has for many years – how many should I not say right here and now, but at least for many years – been so-called associated member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. It is no longer Russia after the dramatic circumstances and the behaviour of Russia – I think – in Ukraine. At the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly Standing Committee in April, it was decided to change relations with Russia. There was a great deal of agreement that Russia would no longer be an associated member. That's what -- I think I can say -- unanimity about. In the Standing Committee there are two members from each Member State. From Norway, the Head of Delegation is Øyvind Halleraker – and I am the Head of Delegation. Halleraker had expired at the Standing Committee meeting in April, so I was alone from Norway. After it was decided that Russia would no longer be an associated member, it was decided – I believe the votes were 12 against 10 votes – that Russia should not be an observer either. In other words, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly does not really have any relationship with Russia at the moment. There are a number of countries around the Mediterranean and elsewhere that have observer status in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but no longer Russia. This is a dilemma for us. On the one hand, of course, we must give clear feedback and show that the way Russia has been doing in Ukraine is totally unacceptable. Of course, there must be some impact on how international organisations, and also countries bilaterally, relate to Russia. I believe, however, that we must have a relationship with Russia. We need to cooperate with Russia in some way, because Russia as a large neighbour in the north-east is important to Norway. In many areas, I would even say that it is essential that Norway and Russia cooperate and talk together. Then the dilemma is, how exactly are we going to deal with Russia now? Some countries in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly clearly do not want to have anything to do with Russia. It has to be respected in a way. I disagree with that, but the majority in Standing felt that we should not now have any formal cooperation with Russia. Then we're going to hope that it gradually normalizes, and that the state of things after some time has passed is going to be different than it is now. But I want to point this out because I find it difficult that we are now in the situation that we have nothing to do with Russia. The NATO Parliamentary Assembly has two plenary sessions this year in addition to committee missions and a good deal of other activities. It's a spring session and an annual session in the fall. I must correct Mr Tybring-Gjedde on one point. The annual session of the autumn at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly shall be held in The Hague. It's next year's annual session to be held in Oslo. But anyway, NATO's Secretary-General is usually present at the plenary sessions, and for the next session, which is in The Hague in November, NATO has got a new Secretary-General. His name is Jens Stoltenberg. He should be congratulated both at the work of the Secretary-General of NATO and at the plenary session of the Parliamentary Assembly in November.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e930	I had not really intended to speak in this debate, because what we are discussing is the 2013 Annual Report, and what has been largely the subject of the debate has been things that have been going on in 2014. Still, it might be right to take this up, I fully understand that. What I asked for the floor was a small line and a correction to the representative Tybring-Gjedde. Since it has been partially corrected, I can add that there are two plenary meetings in 2015. This is what happens during the harvest, which is to be here in Norway – in particular in Stavanger from 7 to 9 October.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e937	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e964	Although these are two relatively large cases, they are almost considered to be despatch cases. Since 2010 and 2011, many people think it might be time to have them treated. As the case may be, the Committee has no further observations than to refer to the document of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and requests that the documents be annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e971	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e987	The Tibet question and the Tibetans' living conditions in China have been on the political agenda since 1950. Tibet was discussed by the UN General Assembly in 1959, 1961 and 1965. Resolutions have taken place, including: called for self-determination for the Tibetans. Tibet's exile government with the exiled minister Lobsang Sangay and the spiritual leader of Tibet, the Dalai Lama, who has both visited Norway in ours, does not require a Tibetan state and liberation. They want more self-determination in Tibet and a dialogue with China on this. Next year it's 50 years since the United Nations General Assembly last thought anything about the Tibet issue. On 23 May 2000, Mr Børge Burnde raised the issue of Tibet in a written question to Minister of Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland – 15 years ago. The question was as follows: ‘It has been 50 years since Chinese forces rolled into Tibet. The time is now running out for the Tibetans and their culture. Nevertheless, Norway failed as late as the spring of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Then there would be no co-proposal for a United States resolution on China's violation of human rights in China and Tibet. Can one expect a more active Tibet policy from the Government in the future, and why was Norway not a part of the US proposal for a resolution on China’s continued violation of human rights in China and Tibet?’ It's something I had to write it myself yesterday – or last week for that part. It could have been a very timely question all the time the Council of State Børge Burnde yesterday, or the last day, made a contribution to the UN on human rights. Let me reassure the Council of State that I did not ask the question, and I am pleased that a Norwegian Council of State and a Norwegian princess are invited to talk about human rights in the UN. I am also pleased that the government has announced its own big message on human rights. With regard to the situation in Tibet and the situation of the Tibetan minority in China, 15 new years have passed since the then Great Britain representative Burnde thought the time was running out for the Tibetans and their culture. Unfortunately, the situation in Tibet has worsened further. After the riots in 2007 and 2008, we heard in 2009 about the first self-esteem among Tibetans. Until now, it is reported that 130 Tibetans have ignited themselves in protest against China’s assault in Tibet. The majority are dead. The court settlement following the riots in 2007 and 2008 was brutal. Several international human rights organisations have described cases as fictitious and deficient — some without evidence, some without a defender and some with violent records. Death sentences have been executed. In other cases, persons have disappeared only without legal redress. Some have even been convicted of having attended a meeting in public places. The situation in Lhasa, the capital of Tibet, is described by those who have been there in recent years, as a war zone. It's intense camera surveillance and snooping. Police and military, well-armed, are visible in the streetscape. The media image is restricted and censored. The Tibetans describe discrimination in employment, education and health. Forced labour is still reported. Governmental Council Brende himself, as a representative of the population, referred to the mass migration and migration of Chinese people as one of the greatest threats to Tibetan influence and culture. The Tibetans are becoming a minority in their own country. Respect and trust in the courts and freedom of organisation, press and expression are fundamental human rights. World society has a role here. Institutions such as the UN and the World Bank are key actors. On several occasions, the Council of State has, among other things, called for the UN to have access to Tibet and report neutrally on the situation in order to obtain information from an unhindered operator. Is this what the Council of States considers relevant to include the United Nations? In addition, Norway can work directly with other countries, like the Nordic and Baltic countries that have a relatively similar democratic culture, to influence China and to help directly in Tibet. Similarly, we can work directly with other countries in Asia, like Nepal, India and Mongolia, where Tibetan refugees live. Assistance, people-to-people cooperation, academic cooperation, education and health are also case-related cooperation that may be relevant. I would like to appreciate if the Council of State can give some consideration to how the government thinks about which actors are involved in cooperating with, concretely related to the human rights situation and developments in general in Tibet. There is an interesting foreign policy debate that has also arisen in Norway in the spring, in the wake of the Tibet affair and the visit of the Dalai Lama to Norway. Norway’s relationship with China has entered a new phase after the Nobel Peace Prize for 2010 was awarded to Liu Xiaobo. In the 15 years since Brende was head of the Tibet Committee, economic growth has been adventurous both in Norway and in China. Oil and gas production and demand have been central to this growth. In general, trade between Norway and China has also grown considerably, and China is becoming the world’s largest economy. China’s position as the world’s leading economy updates Norway’s relationship with China, not least in terms of trade interests, but also in terms of human rights, democracy, environment and climate. The Himalaya is often referred to as the third pole. The Tibet Plateau has large water resources, and access to natural resources was and is a central source of the conflict in Tibet. Our own northern regions and the Arctic are also facing the challenges of melting and new ice-free passengers for boating as some examples of both threats and opportunities. China is invited as an observer to the Arctic Council. How they act in their own country, and how they manage natural resources in their own country, cannot be seen isolated from management in our own neighbourhood. When one sees how China has – not the mass immigration or the people's movement, but I want to claim – colonized Tibet and uses generations to change the population pattern to its own advantage, it's a both domestic and foreign policy issue to deal with such an actor in a sober way, to keep a consistent line and to think very long-term. I hope the Council of State will also help to place government policy and Norway's overall interests in such a context. As far as developments in Asia in general are concerned, there are more than 1.3 billion inhabitants in China. They are in a violent economic development — also wealth development, for that matter. But elsewhere in Asia there is a population of nearly 2.7 billion and also a raging economic development. It is therefore important for Norway to deal with economies other than those of China. There are great opportunities in Asia in this emerging economy. It is a challenge for us not to make ourselves too vulnerable to large players when we are a small country. I hope that the Council of State can also say something about the developments in Asia elsewhere in the subsequent debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1024	The representative, Mr Kjeseth, addresses an important topic which also concerns the situation and issues beyond Tibet. There are about five million Tibetans living in Tibet and in the Tibetan territories in the provinces of Qinghai, Gansu, Sichuan and Yunnan. In total, the Tibetan plateau accounts for about a quarter of China's total land area, i.e. a significant part of the People's Republic. The human rights situation there must be seen in the context of the situation in China elsewhere. The same will apply to the instruments available from the Norwegian side. When we're trying to form a picture of the situation in Tibet and the Tibetan territories, it's a big challenge that the area, as the interpellant also mentions, is partially closed to the outside world. We have limited access to information that can give us a full picture of the situation. It is limited by sources that can be compiled for independent analysis. The reports available, from international organisations and others, describe a society under considerable political control in which central human rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of belief are constantly threatened. Major human rights challenges are reported across a broad range. This is in stark contrast to China's own reporting from the area, which focuses on the economic development and the material increase in wealth to the benefit of the Tibetan people. In other words, our sources are both limited and polarized. There's a big gap between the images being drawn. However, there is reason for concern in the light of the reports and the information we receive. This applies in particular to notifications of self-denomination — as also mentioned by the interpellant — in recent years, which have mainly occurred in the Tibetan areas around Tibet itself, and not least in Lhasa. These are profoundly tragic events, and we consider these to be desperate actions that testify to the fact that some people experience conditions that are completely unsustainable. It is important that these actions are taken seriously by the Chinese authorities. It is essential that dialogue with the local population identifies ways of improving the situation that may lead to such actions for some. This was also reflected in the 2012 EU opinion on the situation in Tibet, to which Norway joined. In normal circumstances, of course, the government would make regular visits to Tibet to form a picture of the situation itself. I was even in that situation at the end of the 1990s that I was on a tour in Tibet and so much of the challenges and the situation that stood up at the time – this is now 15 years ago, as the representative said. In the current situation, access to this area is difficult for Norwegian authorities. So we don't have first-hand information about the human rights situation in Tibet, but as I said, there's every reason to take a serious look at the situation you're facing. Effective protection of human rights is a central part of Norwegian foreign policy. Compliance with human rights obligations is not limited by geographical or other dividing lines. So we can never accept human rights violations, be it in China or anywhere else. Norway has been consistent in addressing difficult human rights issues in China during bilateral meetings when Norwegian and Chinese politicians have met. Until the fall of 2010, Norwegian politicians and civil servants raised difficult issues related to Tibetan identity, religion and culture, directly with our Chinese-side interlocutors. I have done this myself, as the Norwegian Council of State, in a number of conversations, and it has been listened to. The lack of political dialogue with China after November 2010 has deprived us of this opportunity. Now it's only in the multilateral context that we have room to raise these issues. The representative referred to a claim that the human rights situation of Tibet was also raised in the Human Rights Council. As late as the review of China’s land in the UN Human Rights Council last November, Norway addressed the challenges, among others. related to the rapid ratification of the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights with regard to China — ensuring freedom of expression applies to all Chinese citizens and greater transparency in capital punishment — and two issues directly related to the situation of the Tibetan people, on minority rights and on religious rights were also raised. Human rights will be a priority in Norwegian foreign policy. We will not hesitate to respond to any abuse that may take place. An important objective of normalising relations with China is to be able to engage China in human rights issues, including the situation in Tibet and in the Tibetan territories. Norway considers Tibet to be part of China, and this is the broad political consensus on which it is based. In other words, it is the Chinese authorities that are properly addressing the situation in Tibet. Engaging China constructively will therefore be a key task if you want to shed light on the situation — and improve the situation — in the Tibetan territories. This applies to anyone who wants to put Tibet on the agenda. There is no dialogue partner other than the Chinese authorities in Beijing that is more important to contribute to a positive development for the Tibetan people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1047	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for a description of reality that is reasonably similar, and for the fact that one of the UN Human Rights Councils has addressed the situation in China, especially in the Tibetan territories. So it's a challenge, as you say, to engage China in a constructive way, because it's those who are the right addressee. It is not China's rule over Tibet's debate, but the challenge is, in particular, to improve the situation. It's an entire world society that has to stand up to China to do. The United States has been an active driver and is also one of the countries that has consistently accepted the Dalai Lama visit. Dalai Lama is a spiritual leader of the Tibetans, but it is clear that he also has a position as a former Peace Prize winner, and not least with his message of dialogue and non-violence. When one sees the use of Chinese power in Tibet – in many ways – it is a great challenge for us to contribute to mobilising all good forces in order for China to relax its use of power against the Tibetans. I also called for some bilateral cooperation between Norway and other small countries — with western countries, but also with Asian countries. Dalai Lama said when he was visiting the Stortinget, that he wanted a stronger Asian union. He pointed to Europe as a successful example of cooperation between many countries. Not that Norway is going into the brink of creating a Union, but it is at least important to cooperate with other actors in Asia, which I was in the process of creating. The councils were not much into this. Then there is a challenge to the balance between China's interests and Norwegian interests related to the economy, trade and development and to stand up consistently against the abuses that we see happen, among other things. in Tibet, but also in many other provinces in China. It also raises the question of our dependence on China and our relationship with China and how close we are to China, because economic development is the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1058	There are different forms of active work on human rights in Tibet. As the interpellant had in mind, we have the multilateral forums, where Norway has a strong position, and we have an unfair voice in the UN Human Rights Council. As I said, I chose that in November last year, Norway should address several issues in the country hearing with China, including: concrete questions relating to the situation of Tibetans both in Tibet and in the other provinces where there is a large Tibetan feature, as I mentioned, both in Qinghai, Gansu, Sichuan and Yunnan. We must not forget the other provinces where the Tibetan people are an important part of the population, even if perhaps partly a minority. Then we have the opportunity to raise questions related to the human rights situation in Tibet in bilateral talks. Earlier, before 2010, we had an annual human rights dialogue with China. An important part of this dialogue was the situation around and in Tibet and the situation of the Tibetans. Since 2010, we have had no opportunity to raise questions about the Tibetan situation bilaterally. The interpellant was concerned about the possibilities for Norway when we do not have that possibility. We can use the multilateral, and we can do that, by allowing us to have coordination and discussions with other countries that are concerned about this. In the preparations for land hearings in the UN Human Rights Council, it is done. When talks are held at ASEAN meetings, where Norway is invited, human rights are on the agenda. Human rights are also on the agenda when we meet in the Nordic context – and in other European contexts – and the human rights situation in China is part of the discussion when we discuss China's role in the world. So this is a video I'm taking with me in the further important human rights work of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1067	Human rights are universal and apply to all people at all times. I am glad that the Foreign Minister in his speech here today confirms that we should never accept violations of human rights, be it in China or elsewhere. Given that Norway considers Tibet to be part of China, the path to a better human rights situation for the Tibetans through Beijing. It is the responsibility of the Chinese authorities to ensure that human rights are respected for all citizens of the country. I share the concerns of the interpellant about the human rights situation in Tibet and for the Tibetans. Although China, as it progresses enormously, has made progress when it comes to some economic and social rights, it is still a long way to go to ensure dissidents, journalists and other fundamental rights, such as freedom of belief and expression. Furthermore, it is worrying to see increased control in areas where the uighur and Tibetans live. I also noticed that the Minister of Foreign Affairs stated that because of the situation with China, the government does not have firsthand information about the human rights situation in Tibet and cannot make regular visits there in order to form a picture of the situation on its own. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is listening to the reports that come in, even though the scope is limited. Promoting human rights requires both instruments and arenas. Let me start with the tool: Dialogue and confrontation are two instruments which constitute the extremes of diplomatic relations with other countries. Norway must be open to use both of these instruments. Dialogue in the form of conversations and critical questions pushes forward reflections and perhaps ideas for action on both sides. Confrontation is also an instrument in the toolbox, which must be used wisely and wisely. An important principle of the human rights dialogue must be that it does not prevent Norway from confronting the human rights violations of other countries in multilateral contexts. I am therefore pleased that the Norwegian authorities used precisely the channels when Norway took up the Tibetan situation in the land hearing of China in the UN Human Rights Council in November, where civil and political rights, minority rights and religious rights were guaranteed. I would like to dwell a little on the bilateral dialogue that China and Norway had reached until relations were frozen about four years ago: China and Norway started their human rights dialogue in 1993, and in 1997 it was formalised with annual round table conferences at political level with expert participation, among others. from Norwegian human rights organisations, including the Norwegian Helsinki Committee and the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights. Human rights in Tibet was one of several themes that was raised. Norway was one of the few countries that had bilateral dialogue with China, so Norway was also listened to by third countries that did not have similar dialogue. It is difficult to evaluate the results of such a partially closed dialogue, and different experts give different answers as to whether the Norwegian dialogue bore fruit. However, we had a completely different opportunity to deal with China when we had the dialogue than now when our relationships are significantly worse. I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, given its history, competence and relations, is well equipped to try to resume dialogue. But I am glad that through this round we can make clear something that a total accumulation can be agreed on, namely that it is the genuine desire of the Norwegian authorities that human rights conditions in China, including Tibet, should be improved. As I said, the path to a better human rights situation for the Tibetans is through measures taken in Beijing. Normalisation of relations with China could make it possible to influence human rights policy in the long term — including in the Tibetan territories. In addition, Norway will have an increased international space for action ranging from international climate policy to development policy. It is a good Norwegian tradition to speak with all countries and groups and to have a dialogue with even those with whom you disagree. China is not any country. It's the world's most populous state. Norway has not been in contact with China for nearly four years, and I am pleased that the government is working to normalize the relationship, so that the Tibetans' cause can also travel outside multilateral channels. It should therefore be a central foreign policy objective to restore a functioning relationship with China so that the human rights situation for minorities, including the Tibetans, can be addressed directly to the national authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1099	Thanks to the interpellant for recording and keeping warm a very important matter. Amnesty International describes a particular serious development in Tibet. The Chinese military will have iron control over the entire area, and all signs of criticism it will be severely turned on. Amnesty tells of examples of the military shooting and killing Tibetan protesters who protest against increasing repression. They also tell about the demolition of monasteries, the torture of Tibetans in Chinese prisons and criminal labour camps. Since 2009, according to Amnesty, over 120 Tibetans have gone to the extreme step of putting a guy on their own in protest against the cultural and political repression of Chinese government powers. Amnesty claims that the situation in Tibet is getting progressively worse. Increased political control is reported, and central human rights, such as freedom of expression and freedom of faith, are threatened. It's crucial that we find ways to help. Norwegian politicians and diplomats must deal with difficult issues relating to Tibetan ethnicity, Tibetan religion and Tibetan culture directly with our Chinese interlocutors when possible. I am pleased that it is a foreign policy priority to change this situation and to engage China in human rights issues. But when Amnesty claims that the situation in Tibet is getting progressively worse, the question to the Foreign Minister is what his assessment is about the development of human rights in China and the relation of the Tibetan population.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1114	I want to start by thanking the interpellant, Ketil Kjenseth, for taking up the situation in Tibet in the Storing and the Storing Hall. The contrast to that media coverage and the resurrection that was here when the Dalai Lama was actually visiting here in the house, is a bit striking. Maybe it's a little thoughtful that there's no more fuss now, when we do what we do, that's to have a political debate and an exchange of words about the situation. But it is good that we do it now, and I think it is good to listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who stresses the importance of working for human rights, and that this is a very important part of Norwegian foreign policy. The Dalai Lama has set the agenda for the human rights situation in Tibet, and therefore we follow the extra carefully – mainly also because China entered Tibet in 1950, and that there was then a special situation in international politics for that reason, but I also think there is reason to remember that the situation in the rest of China is also not particularly good in terms of human rights. There is political and religious persecution, and there is widespread use of the death penalty in China. Freedom of expression is not present. Last week we were shown how the sign that it was 25 years since the demonstrations in the place of Heavenly peace really got tired. It's not allowed to talk about or discuss this in the public room. You can't mention it in the history books, etc. It bears witness to a freedom of expression that is not present. At the same time, we know that China's economic and political power is strengthening strongly all the time. Researchers in international politics can tell us about a China that is a major force today, but that will become even more powerful in the future. It's just a matter of time – a few years or so – before China is the world's greatest economic and political power. It will pose a strategic challenge for Norway – regardless of what will happen in the bilateral relationship between Norway and China, which I am convinced will normalize at some point. But it challenges Europe, it challenges Norway that the largest and most dominant nation in the world, as we know it now, does not share our view of many of the fundamental human rights, as the United States – which is the greatest power now – shares their values with us. China will not – at least not in this round – be able to relate to that kind of value. It's something that I think will be demanding anyway, because it's about trade, it's about power, and it's about Norway still having an active role in human rights, but of course also wants a business that's going to work well with China as an economic power. I believe that many politicians after us will also have to debate here from this pulpit, because it will challenge us in various foreign policy interests that we have to attend to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1127	Thank you to those who have taken part in the debate. There are busy days in Stortinget, and I have great respect and understanding that it is difficult to find room to participate in all debates. Clearly, the Himalayas are high and steep, and this debate has certainly been quite flat – to be honest. One of the instruments the Council of State has is the Norwegian Embassy in China. There's also an interesting question about the extent to which the Council of State will use the embassy to get into Tibet. Traditionally, the Norwegian Embassy has traveled a lot around Tibet to get some information, and that's the guide of the Chinese authorities, but it's an opportunity to get in. Another situation is the situation in Nepal, the number of Tibetan refugees passing through, and China is increasingly pressing for Nepal to treat the refugees as deserters and leave them to the Chinese authorities. It's also a very demanding situation for those who live or are stranded in Nepal. Academia in Norway is also interesting, because more and more people are connecting to networks with China, both economically, in research and in other ways. Academia, with the way you work there, has a very important position in criticising and obtaining information. The more we link the academy to China, the greater the challenge, which the representative of the Aasen was facing, in discussing the challenges we are still facing. Artists also have a similar role. When they don't get in, don't experience, and don't get in their way, the whole world community is facing a very big challenge: on what premises are we going to hold this debate and contribute to development? At home, we have also seen examples of property investors from China who have seen properties both in Svalbard and in North Norway. Iceland has a similar situation. So Chinese property interests are very active and on the path in our region. Given the picture we see now, I would argue that it's not a big goal to normalize the relationship with China if it's just going to be on China's premises. Therefore, it is important to have a debate in Norway on where our borders go, on which premises we should have a relationship with China, and on how far we should go in order to normalise – so-called – the relationship with China when we see the power of the Chinese to push the players they are in contact with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1140	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Kjeseth, for raising this gap. Although, according to the representative, there could have been more participants, I think it is important that we continue to have a searchlight on human rights in general, and not least in relation to human rights in relation to groups of people under pressure. Human rights are an important area of government foreign policy, and the Sundvolden Declaration stresses that we should promote democracy, human rights, the rule of law and freedom of expression through Norwegian foreign policy and focus more on civil and political rights. The representative mentioned – I believe at least the representative did it initially – the meeting that was at the UN main meeting yesterday, where Norway underlined the importance of human rights, anti-corruption work and good governance becoming part of the new objectives to be set up in post 2015, the new sustainability goals to meet the Millennium Goals. Work to promote human rights in a country with the largest population in the world – China, with 1.3 billion inhabitants – and with many different challenges also requires complex instruments, at political and professional level, bilaterally and multilaterally. This must also be reflected in our relationship with China. It is positive that there is a broad political and public commitment in Norway to the situation of the Tibetan people. Although we do not have first-hand information on the situation in Tibet — the Norwegian authorities do not have access to Tibet and the Tibetan areas as they are now — the content presented in available reports gives us enough reason to be concerned. Therefore, it was important to me that we addressed the situation of the Tibetans at the UN Human Rights Council meeting last November. We must not forget the Tibetans' cause, but we must draw a realistic and nuanced picture. When we discuss China, we cannot get away from the fact that hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty. But, as I said, looking at the fight against poverty and the opportunities created is an important part of a human being's life and quality of life, both freedom of assembly, freedom of expression and other fundamental human rights, also the right to maintain their own culture and their own peculiarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1151	The debate on substance is closed. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1167	We celebrate the 200th anniversary of the Norwegian Constitution, a very radical constitution that laid the foundations for the further development of Norway, a development towards democracy, well-being and human rights. There are many places in the world today where some are fighting for freedom, justice and self-government. We've just put a debate behind us, and I'm going to pick up somewhere else. In Sri Lanka, the Tamils are a large minority fighting for justice under a oppressive regime. On May 18th, five years ago, the bloody civil war ended between the government and the so-called Tamil tigers, or the LTTE. The Tamils were crushed, literally driven up into a corner in the north of the island that makes up Sri Lanka. 300,000 Tamils were interned in camps, and there was a precarious humanitarian situation for large sections of the Tamil population. LTTE is now a completely insignificant power factor in Sri Lanka. We have thousands of Tamils in Norway. I was one of those who registered and followed the war and the massacres that happened in 2009. I experienced the mind, the rage and the frustration of our inhabitants with Tamil background. Sri Lanka's government broke international law and international humanitarian law. The Tamil population was caught inside the combat areas — without emergency aid, without food, without medication or medical care. The government refused to let health workers in. Nor did they let in supplies, such as medicines and other necessary equipment, for internally displaced refugees. This was also condemned by the world community in 2009. Then it's necessary to add that this was a civil war where the brutality was great on both sides. The war between the Tamil tigers and the Singalese ended on 18 May 2009, after major civilian losses. A UN report estimates that around 70,000 civilians lost their lives only between January and May. Many were subjected to serious abuse. And again, war does not eliminate underlying conflicts, nor in Sri Lanka. On 18 March 2010, the representative Eva Kristin Hansen had an interpellation about the situation, and two years later Peter Skovholt Gitmark had a new interpellation. Both interpellations were answered by Jonas Gahr Støre, who was then Minister of Foreign Affairs. Gahr Støre said, among other things: in its 2010 main report: ‘Ten months after the end of the war a political solution has not been drawn closer. The ethnic dividing lines have rather been reinforced by the large civil losses, the treatment of internal refugees and the increased migration of single readers to areas previously dominated by minorities. The response of Sri Lankan authorities to the national problem is likely to be economic development and reconstruction in the north and east rather than efforts to achieve a policy solution acceptable to minorities.’» I believe that in order to understand the situation in Sri Lanka it is necessary to look at the history of the country. In 1505 the Portuguese took this island and called it Ceylon, a name that was replaced in 1972 with Sri Lanka, which is a Sinhala name. In 1638 the Portuguese were served by the Netherlands, which then took over Ceylon. During the Napoleonic wars, however, the British feared that the French would take the island. February 14, 1815, the British colonized Ceylon. In the 20th century, a well-trained social class — which consisted largely of Tamils — emerged and entered the government. It is said that the Tamils were British favorites. The Sinhala readers make up 75 pst. by the population of Sri Lanka, the Tamils 18 pst. – they are therefore a minority, but a large minority. In addition, of course, there are other minorities, not least Muslim minorities. This country became independent on 4 February 1948. We probably remember in Norway the two prime ministers – Bandaranaike and, after his death, his wife Sirimavo Bandaranaike, who took over after his husband in 1960 – with a Moscow-oriented socialist regime. I think it's important when we look at what happened next, that there's a very big difference between the singulars and the Tamils. Sinhala and Tamil are two completely different languages. The Sinhalese, who are in majority, are Buddhists, the Tamils are Hindus. The Bandaranaike governments suppressed and cleared Tamils and Tamil languages and identity. In 1956, Sinhala became the only official language in Sri Lanka. In higher education, quotas were gradually introduced — only a few Tamil students were allowed. In 1983 the Great War began. The so-called Tamil tigers, or LTTE, were a brutal and uncompromising liberation movement, but this was a tough war. In 1983, nearly 150 000 Tamils fled and sought asylum in other countries, not least in European countries. Most will remember that around 2000, Norway was commissioned to negotiate between the parties in Sri Lanka. It was a hard job, it was a tough job. A peace agreement was subsequently concluded – it was concluded in 2002 – but the conflicts had not been resolved. The parties subsequently did not accept this peace agreement, and the civil war broke out again. And it was the one that got bloody, and someone would finally mean -- in Sri Lanka. As I said, the Tamil tigers were crushed on May 18, 2009. There was a demand for an independent review of the many claims of war crimes and violations of humanitarian law in the last days and weeks before the end of the war. The reconciliation process in Sri Lanka is difficult without an independent international investigation. Any solution must also preserve the identity of minorities and put an end to the discrimination that the Tamils have suffered ever since independence from the United Kingdom, when Ceylon became a Sri Lankan – that is, a singular name. The Tamils are still being subjected to surveillance and repression. It's just to go to the websites of different human rights organisations to see it. It is important that the international community ask the Government of Sri Lanka to stop the extermination of Tamil culture and Tamil identity. It is important that the Tamils get some kind of self-determination in the northern areas. In Norwegian policy, the situation of Tamils has been quiet for a while. But we are reminded of it at least every May, as the Tamils have several events to remember what happened in 2009. In our Constitutional Russ, we should remember that other groups in the world are also fighting for justice, democracy and freedom. On 27 March, the UN Human Rights Council adopted an independent review of possible war crimes in Sri Lanka in the spring of 2009. The UN Human Rights Council decided to launch an investigation into war crimes committed by Sri Lanka. Of course Colombo – that is, Sri Lanka – said no immediately. But it is worth stressing and worth noting that the Human Rights Council is now much clearer than it has been at previous meetings on investigation – which is the word being used – rather than simply recommending that there be an investigation, which has been done in the past. Norway sits in the Human Rights Council, and my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply: How does Norway today follow up this decision in the Human Rights Council?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1211	I will be allowed to thank the representative Marit Nybakk for addressing the situation in Sri Lanka. I will initially give my assessment of the political situation in the country and then explain how we address the question of an independent international investigation of the actions that were carried out in the final stages of the war. I would also like to explain what Norway is doing today to help improve the situation in Sri Lanka — as requested by the representative and the interpellant. The government is concerned about developments in Sri Lanka. It is very worrying that democratic institutions and fundamental rule of law have been weakened in recent years. Civil society and media are under pressure, and the general human rights situation is worrying – not just in the Tamil areas. It is reported, inter alia: on disappearances and arbitrary arrests and attacks on religious minorities. Serious governance challenges, including corruption, affect the entire population of the country. Sri Lanka has not made any progress in its efforts to achieve a political solution that also serves the interests of minorities. The military presence in the north is still extensive. I saw that myself during a visit a few years ago. The repatriation of internally displaced persons has begun, and there has been reconstruction and economic growth, as well as the holding of elections in the Northern Province. Five years after the end of the war, however, we must state that Sri Lanka has not taken the necessary steps towards reconciliation and political solution. The election in the north last year was important, but is not in itself sufficient as a political solution for the country's minorities. Having said that, I would like to be quite clear that Norway sees itself as a political solution that preserves the territorial integrity of Sri Lanka. Let me then go on to the question of independent international scrutiny of the final phase of the war. The UN Secretary-General established, after the end of the war, an expert panel mandated to assess whether serious violations of humanitarian law and international human rights had taken place in the final phase of the war. According to the conclusions of the panel of experts, there was reasonable reason to believe that such violations had been committed by both parties to the conflict, including war crimes and crimes against humanity. One of the key recommendations of the panel was the launch of a genuine and independent review of the events of the Sri Lankan authorities. Sri Lanka set up its own Commission, the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission, LLRC. The Commission presented a series of constructive follow-up actions which would have a positive impact on the reconciliation and strengthening of human rights if they had been fully implemented. However, Sri Lankan authorities have shown limited ability and willingness to implement these measures, in particular those related to investigation. In 2012, the UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution calling on Sri Lanka to implement the recommendations of its own reconciliation commission, the LLRC — to which I referred — and to follow up possible violations of international law. Norway was the co-rapporteur for the resolution. In the follow-up resolution adopted the following year, Sri Lanka was invited to carry out an independent and credible investigation. Norway was also co-rapporteur for this resolution, although in 2013 we were no longer a member of the MR Council. Sri Lanka was on the agenda again during the session of the MR Council in March this year. The High Commissioner for Human Rights presented a critical report on the situation in Sri Lanka, which concluded that the government had not undertaken a credible review of the serious allegations of human rights violations and international humanitarian law, and shown limited progress in implementing the other measures of that LLRC report. This led to a new resolution establishing an international investigation mechanism under the auspices of the High Commissioner’s Office. This shall conduct an investigation of events by both parties during the period 2002-2009 and not only in the final phase of the war. Norway was also the co-rapporteur here, in March. When the interpellant asks if the government will work for an independent international investigation, the answer is yes. We have been co-sponsors of all the resolutions adopted in the MR Council on this matter. Norway went out early with support for the draft resolution on international research, and we took an active part in the consultations on the text in Geneva. In the Norwegian speech during the debate on Sri Lanka, we also expressed concern about the human rights situation in the country, and we gave clear messages as to why we believe the establishment of an international investigation mechanism is necessary. Norway has also previously addressed the situation in Sri Lanka in articles we have held in the MR Council. We have called on the Sri Lankan authorities to strengthen human rights, strengthen the independence of central institutions and uphold fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of the press. Now I have spent a lot of time in my post on the question of investigation. I would like to stress that from a Norwegian point of view, it is also important to work for a political solution and for the reconstruction of the areas that were destroyed during the war. The damage that happened in the north was very extensive. I've seen that for myself. Through the financing of mine clearance, the construction of wells and support for capacity building and employment measures, Norway has contributed to the reconstruction and development of the former conflict areas in the north and east. Norwegian-supported measures have also contributed to increased agricultural production, employment and higher incomes for poor families. Since the end of the war in 2009, there have been more than 270 million. Norwegian aid crowns have been used for reconstruction and development in the former conflict areas. Norway has also continued to support civil society organisations working with reconciliation, human rights and democratisation. The President and Government of Sri Lanka today have a solid majority behind them in Parliament. In our talks with the Sri Lankan authorities, we have made it clear that they must use the opportunity that this position gives them to launch a political solution that is acceptable to Sri Lanka's minorities as well. Unfortunately, the government has been less responsive to our, and to the recommendations of the international community. The end of the war in 2009 also meant the end of Norway’s special role in Sri Lanka. The action space for international involvement is also limited in today’s Sri Lanka. The country’s government appears to be influenced to a small extent by international actors. This also applies to countries such as the United States and India. However, Norway will continue to work to improve the situation in Sri Lanka. At the same time, we need to be realistic about what it will be possible to do. It is important to stress that Sri Lanka's own government is responsible for finding a political solution, for creating reconciliation and for cooperating with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in the investigation of possible war crimes and violations of humanitarian law in the final phase of the war.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1260	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a very clear and clarifying answer. I am pleased that Norway will actively contribute to an international investigation mechanism in investigating what happened in Sri Lanka in 2009. It is true, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that a political solution must, of course, safeguard territorial integrity, while at the same time giving minorities, especially the Tamil, a certain autonomy. But it is far from real reconciliation, despite negotiations. The situation is very worrying. I mentioned several human rights organisations in my main post. According to Reporters Without Borders, it is continuous violence against Sri Lanka's minorities, primarily against the Tamils. Tamil journalists are being harassed and imprisoned. At least 39 media people have been killed or have disappeared. Newspapers and media houses are being bombed. Many journalists have had to flee the country. Sri Lanka is now ranked No. 162 out of 179 countries on the press freedom index, this still remains according to Reporters Without Borders. On April 3rd this year, a Tamil newspaper was attacked. Two employees were seriously injured. So there is little evidence that the situation in Sri Lanka has stabilised after the war. There is little evidence that authorities will address the needs for reconciliation and find a political solution that will ensure democratic development and prevent discrimination against minority groups. Another disturbing development is that we see a lot of pretty tough attacks on Hindus and Muslims committed by Sinhala Buddhists. The regimes do nothing to defeat an increasing hatred of religious minorities in the country. As far as I know, Sri Lanka is not a member of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, the ICC, i.e. investigation and prosecution by the ICC is not possible. It therefore becomes an independent investigation commission — or independent international investigation, if you want — that becomes the possible option after the UN Human Rights Council decision. The investigation commission of the Sri Lankan government itself, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs spent a little time on, has, as far as I know, had little credibility internationally. The question is, what can Norway do bilaterally, if Norway, as well as working in the international community, can still do something bilaterally in the case of Sri Lanka, with the history we all have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1275	The review mechanism established by the High Commissioner for Human Rights of the United Nations will be mandated to carry out an overall investigation of the alleged serious violations of international human rights, also related to crimes committed by both parties during the same period as the so-called Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission of Sri Lanka. The High Commissioner was also asked to establish the facts relating to the offences cited, with the aim of preventing those who bear the legal responsibility for the crimes from being punished. This mechanism is an important step forward in the process of reconciliation and impunity in Sri Lanka. It is important that we allow that mechanism to be given the opportunity to carry out their mandate before we decide on options for further follow-up. Sri Lanka, as the representative Nybakk stated, is not associated with the International Criminal Court in The Hague, ICC. There has been no mood in the UN Security Council to refer the issue of investigating incidents in the civil war in Sri Lanka to the ICC. Therefore, investigation and prosecution by the ICC are not possible. That is the background for the treatment in the MR Council, and that the High Commissioner for Human Rights has been entrusted with the investigation. The international community must, together, encourage the Government of Sri Lanka to cooperate with the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights. The Government of Sri Lanka should have an interest in finding solutions to enable it to achieve lasting peace and reconciliation. At the same time, there is reason to believe that cooperation with Sri Lankan authorities on investigations will pose significant challenges. The Government of Sri Lanka rejects the resolution of the MR Council. It is important to be aware that all opposition parties in Sri Lanka, with the exception of TNA, are also opposed to the requirement of international scrutiny, considering the resolution as an attack on the sovereignty of the country. Norway has, as mentioned, been a clear supporter of the MR Council for all three resolutions on Sri Lanka. We are now looking forward to obtaining the result of the review. Norway will continue to promote clear messages in international forums, we will repeat it in the bilateral talks we have, and we will continue to work to improve the situation in Sri Lanka in different ways and through different channels. As regards the situation in the north, progress has been made in the reconstruction of the infrastructure and the resettlement of internal refugees in the previously conflict-affected areas. Sri Lanka's government has invested not insignificant resources for this. However, challenges remain for both the returnees and the remaining internally displaced, although most have been able to move back. Norway is concerned about the significant military presence in the north. National security considerations exist, but five years after the end of the war, the military image and the surveillance of the civilian population are such that they undermine reconciliation and reinforce distrust.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1288	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for traveling an important interpellant, and I would like to praise the interpellant for putting its interpellant in the context that she is doing. I think it's important given that we're in a constitutional anniversary. Civilians are the losers in any armed conflict. This is also true in Sri Lanka. No one can be untouched by the humanitarian disaster and the enormous suffering that the war between the Sri Lankan peoples brought. Five years have passed since the war killed thousands of people and drove hundreds of thousands away. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights stated early on that both the LTTE and the government forces had committed serious violations of international humanitarian rules. On the surface, life is now seemingly being normalized. Most checkpoints are removed, similar to most minefields. Shops and hotels rise, but we still know that the repression of minorities in the country continues to be widespread, as both the inter-pellant and the foreign minister refer to. A prominent human rights champion said this: The government would like to believe that reconciliation can only happen through economic development, but a person does not build peace with concrete. Mutual will and respect are decisive for the peoples' groups to live together in peace and tolerance. As both the inter-pellant and the Foreign Minister have clearly pointed out, in 2010, the UN appointed an expert group to take a closer look at human rights in the country, and in March this year the UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution calling for the two parties to investigate their human rights violations in the period 2002-2009. Here it is important that the United Nations plays a central role in this work, and that Norway supports it in this context. The international community must exert pressure on the government of Colombo to ensure that justice for the Tamil population is guaranteed. At the same time, it is important to contribute to the reintegration of former militant groups into society and to their constructive contribution to reconstruction. The road to political influence must go through the ballot box and not through elective acts and terror. The long-term objective must be to achieve a reconciliation process between population groups. Norway has previously played a central role in trying to bring about a peaceful end to the conflict in Sri Lanka. Former Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre took the initiative in spring 2010 to carry out an external evaluation of the peace process and the role of Norway. It was an important initiative. If we are to contribute to international conflict resolution in the future, we need to learn from experience and, at any time, make a critical assessment of whether and how Norway can actually play a positive role in the peace process in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1303	I would like to thank the interpellant Marit Nybakk for following up an important matter. After the end of the 25-year civil war in Sri Lanka in 2009, conditions have improved, and the situation has largely stabilised, but there have been constant challenges to the human rights situation in the country, and trends to some increase have been seen in the last year. Sri Lanka has not shown any progress in finding a political solution where minorities in the country are cared for. There are hundreds of thousands of internally displaced refugees in Sri Lanka, and many still live under poor conditions in refugee camps in the northeast, where there is still a large military presence. The general human rights situation is worrying. There is little evidence that authorities will find a policy solution to the conflict that will ensure further future stability and prevent discrimination against minority groups. The fact that the Government of Sri Lanka appointed a commission of inquiry to investigate and light the conflict has had little credibility internationally, and the government has been criticized for not carrying out an independent investigation, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned in his reply. The criticism has been reinforced since a panel appointed by the UN Secretary-General in April 2011 issued a report on war crimes in the country. The report reported that both sides of the Sri Lanka Civil War have committed atrocities against civilians, and an international investigation of possible war crimes is required. The international community calls for concrete policy initiatives from the authorities, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also stated. Norway has played an important role in peacekeeping in Sri Lanka for many years, and has been an important driver of the arms rest agreement in place in 2002. Norway has engaged in reconstruction, assistance and work on the human rights situation in the country. I am pleased with the Secretary of State's clarity that Norway will continue to work to improve the situation in Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1316	Thanks for the recordings! And I noticed in particular that the Foreign Minister spoke about serious governance challenges in Sri Lanka – not just repression, but simply that we also have serious governance challenges, including. corruption and mismanagement in addition to repression, detention and violations of human rights. Then there is concern about large military presence in the north, which, of course, undermines reconciliation. And it really seems that the Sri Lankan government does not want to take the initiative in a political solution or, for that matter, implement it. At the same time, it is very important, as two previous debaters stressed, that the path to a political solution must go through political participation, through the ballot boxes and not through war and terror. At the same time, in order to prevent new, violent resistance, it is of great importance that the political reconciliation process should begin. It's been five years since we experienced this bloodbath in the northern areas of Sri Lanka. For five years, both Tamils and other minorities and international society have been waiting and trying to contribute to reconciliation, political development, which takes account of minorities. Instead, we experience further repression of Tamil languages, Tamil identity, Tamil culture, and we experience journalists being harassed, especially those who are Tamils, and we experience suppression of Hindus, which are Tamil religion. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was concerned about contributing to the reconstruction, employment and agriculture of the northern regions, and that Norway too can envisage contributing to this through civil society, i.e. civil organisations in Sri Lanka. So it is that cooperation with Sri Lankan authorities on an international investigation mechanism is difficult. I would like to repeat a question I had to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it conceivable – and I also perceived that two previous speakers were involved – that Norway can contribute something bilaterally with the story we have, or is it difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1329	I would once again like to thank the interpellant Marit Nybakk for raising important questions. I would also like to thank you for the debate and commitment in the Chamber. The government gives its full support to the investigation work that is now to be carried out by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, on which I have been involved. Sri Lanka also needs a political solution that takes care of the interests of minorities. This is what Sri Lankan authorities have committed themselves to after the end of the war. I hope the Sri Lankan Government will resume negotiations with TNA on a political solution within the framework of the Sri Lankan state. In my view, a political solution will require both a willingness to reconcile and a willingness to take a settlement with the past. That is why a review is necessary. From the Norwegian side, we are clear in our message to the Sri Lankan Government that they must cooperate with the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. As the representative Nybakk was involved, Norway has played an active role for many years in Sri Lanka until the end of the civil war. We are not unwilling to play a role bilaterally if the different parties wish. The representative added ‘or is it difficult?’ I believe that the representative is involved in something significant here. In that case, it assumes that Rajapaksa, the President, and the government wants to use Norway in a possible reconciliation process in the future. If such a wish comes, and I can proactively say from the pulpit of the Storting that we are making, it remains to see if there is anything that will be experienced as interesting from Rajapaksa and his government in Sri Lanka today. We see that this government of Sri Lanka and large parts of the Tamil diaspora are on a collision course. Sri Lankan authorities must now carry out credible legal proceedings against those suspected of acts of terrorism. There is a heavy responsibility here on Sri Lankan authorities to distinguish between legal political activities and illegal activities. Sri Lanka is now an intermediate country. It would therefore be in line with international practice to gradually reduce aid to the country. However, Norway will continue to work to improve the situation in Sri Lanka. We will continue to contribute to support in different ways through different channels. At the same time, it is the Government of Sri Lanka that has the primary responsibility to take the initiative of political compromise and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1346	That is when the debate is on case No. Six over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1360	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of the Council of State. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1367	We are a country that lives by the principle that no one can be punished without judgment. Nevertheless, many people feel that sitting on a smooth cell in Norway feels like a hard punishment without judgment. We are also a society built on the mantra to build the country by law. Unfortunately, our laws and regulations are too often broken, and also by those who are set to comply with these laws. This applies in particular to the rules on smooth cell prisoners. Some may immediately think that there are things in Norway that are more valuable to spend resources on than those taken by the police and put on smooth cells. Then it might be worth remembering that in very many cases these people are innocent. It's not supposed to be a punishment to be put in a police arrest. The penalty will come later if you're found guilty in a court of law. And although very many of those put on a smooth cell actually end up there for very good reasons, it's still not a legal state worthy that we can't carry out a deployment in a way that satisfies our fundamental human rights obligations. Prisoners are often subjected to unnecessary stress when they are placed on a smooth cell in Norway. In practice, a stay there is seen as isolation. You can just close your eyes to think about what it must be like to sit in isolation for quite an indefinite period of time. It is therefore gratifying that today, across and across the boundaries of the parties, we can agree that Norwegian practice has been unsustainable for a long time – across and across different governments. Where the Stortinge divides today is in the debate on the proposals from the Left. I'm going to be the first to admit that the proposals are filled with good intentions. However, like very many of those who were being consulted during the committee proceedings, the Right believes that these are proposals that are simply desk proposals. They just want to increase the number of deadlines, not do anything about the real problems that lie behind them. In fact, in many cases they could lead to the release of prisoners who at all should not walk freely in our streets. So one thing has to be very clear: it's not our rules there's something wrong with it. Today's rules of 48 hours are initially quite unproblematic. What's the problem is the practice of these rules. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have therefore made proposals asking that the 48-hour rule be respected much more stringently than has been the case in the past. There are proposals for decisions that actually respond to the real problems rather than creating new ones. In addition, we propose to create a centralised system that allows the police to find places in common prison cells in a much simpler way. Today, in fact, many police stations have to call the prisons to find the available capacity. Everyone understands that it's not optimal. Last but not least, we ask the government to consider different measures to improve the standard of smooth cells in Norway, because there is a lot of the problem here. Everyone understands that the police need to insert people into police cells for shorter periods of time, but it doesn't have to look like prison holes from another century. It is precisely isolation in Norwegian smooth cells that we are so strongly criticized for, and that can potentially damage those that are being inserted. With small funds, very much can be done to improve that standard. We just saw a very good example in Westfold, and we want to see more of this. The decisions that are now to be taken by a majority are offensive and targeted. For the first time in a long time, political Norway is doing something about our smooth cell situation. That's good reason to enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1388	The representatives of the Left raise an important proposal in this matter, so I would like to thank the Left for putting this matter on the agenda, and I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a good handling of the matter in the Committee. As the rapporteur said, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection agreed on the need to put an end to the violations of human rights violations and violations of our human rights obligations. Nevertheless, the Committee is somewhat divided as regards the follow-up to proposals for decisions in this matter. The Workers' Party and the Centre want a separate case for the Storting on this issue because we know that there are many challenges related to use that do not necessarily get better from simply adopting a legislative change. That is why we want to get a bigger case to the Stortinget about just the practice and relationships associated with sitting in a smooth cell. There is no comprehensive and detailed statistics on the practice of smooth cell use, but it has been found that persons in such isolates commit suicides more frequently than those in regular prisons, and that isolation can be a trigger for both mental and physical consequential damage. Nevertheless, we must have isolation opportunities, and the Workers' Party is not in favour of a total removal of this. But we have to turn around the practice and follow the deadlines that are now legalized. Glacial cells should have clear criteria for use and not be used because that's all you have. I have visited many police districts in the context of the police analysis, and most people tell me about a use that has developed in practice over time, which is rarely discussed, nor is it permitted by law or regulation. It's just "lead like that" that cells have this layout. That is why we believe there should be legislation that says something about both use and design. The Labour Party, like the entire Committee, believes that there are two main challenges to the situation as it is: the lack of detention facilities by criminal services and the keeping of a standard by police cells that makes them unfit for stay beyond a very short period of time. The Labour Party will take immediate action in terms of design, and we have already proposed to start building a new prison, which in our view is one of the most important steps to bring down the overcrowding. This was voted down, and I expect it will take time for the Minister of Justice to put this in place. The Labour Party considers this to be regrettable. Having said that, I experience a consensus committee that is committed to overtaking and isolation practices, and this is a clear signal to the Minister of Justice that something has to be done. Especially is the consensus in the case of children. They shall not be placed in smooth cell. All other measures shall be tested first. When the Labour Party cannot support the Left's proposal, it is because we believe that this is a problem that is not solved by new legislation alone. More instruments are needed. The use of smooth cells shall not be the rule, regardless of whether not everyone is above the deadline in today's legal text or the proposed deadlines from the Left. That is why we have proposed a kind of reverse practice, in which we believe that we should have regulation for the use of smooth cell, that there should be a political debate around this, and that there should be a practice that ends with smooth cells being used automatically and that smooth cells are largely the only way to develop cells in police districts. Now I'm also going to say that on the tour we've had around the country, in connection with the police analysis, we've also met with police districts that've been dealing with that problem, and that's done a lot of work to try to improve the conditions around the isolation moment, which is the special moment that the Human Rights Committee has taken up and that Norway has been criticized for. So the Labour Party's position is clear: we have to do something about the smooth cell problem, we have to do it quickly, we should have a reverse use of the rules, and there should also be a larger and wider political debate in the Stortinget. With this, I would like to address the proposals that the Labour Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1411	The representative, Kari Henriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1414	Let me first of all thank the case rapporteur, who has handled the matter well in the Committee, and who has shown a strong commitment to this matter, which we have been dealt with on a proposal from the Left. So I thank the rapporteur very much for that. As I see it, it's actually important decisions we're going to make here today. I am pleased that this Parliament and the Justice Committee in the current parliamentary term have had a historically high focus on issues of isolation. This is the only field in which Norway has consistently, for a long time, been criticised for violations of fundamental human rights. I am therefore satisfied that we are united on the goal across the party boundaries, although, of course, there are also disagreements about the procedure in this field. The important thing here is not the details of how we achieve the goal, but the great, cross-political will that is here, to finally tackle smooth cell problems and human rights violations. These are issues of fundamental human dignity and are too important to be used in a political game. I would therefore like to commend the Left Party, which still has an important work to do by putting this on the agenda. It is true that this judicial committee has been working to improve the procedures for isolation and smooth cell use from day one, and in a balanced budget, a clear order was made to the government that it had to be worked purposely to ensure that the smooth cell use would come under control. We are following this up today by encouraging the government to take immediate action to improve the standard of land's smooth cells. Many smooth cells are currently completely lacking basic facilities, such as: clock, radio or light adjustment. I believe it should of course be possible to access the radio or a newspaper where police assessments do not stop for it. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that in the future some of today’s prison cells must also be so-called smooth cells, for example, where the custody prisoner is excessively drunk or at risk to himself. However, this should be the exception, not the general rule. Then the Left shall have praise for elucidating the issue through this proposal. However, there is reason to note several of the opinions of the consultation round. Here, realism is called into question in the implementation of such a four-hour deadline as is proposed. The last thing we need is a bureaucratic provision that won't solve the underlying problem, and the long-term problem can be summed up in one word: ‘capacity’. Human rights violations and slippages have a direct connection with the lack of capacity in criminal custody. Today, Norwegian prisons have a coverage of 98 pst., and it is therefore not surprising that it can be challenging to find vacancies in criminal custody. The government has already taken action to control the capacity problems, including: through the release of 88 closed prison sites in the aged budget. At the latest in the revised budget, the government took a final and definitive settlement with the largest human rights tribunal in Norway in modern times, namely that it has been in solitary confinement in Ila for up to three years without the political will to put off the necessary means to get these so-called storks out of isolation and into a worthy offer. Now the government has finally provided fresh millions to clean up these unworthy conditions, and I am therefore proud of the will this government shows to clean up human rights violations in the justice sector. I am therefore very confident that the orders we are now sending to the Minister of Justice and the Government will be dealt with in the most serious way. There is a lack of political will over several years to give priority to closed prisons that have led us into the precarious situation we are today. We talked about this last week when we discussed a proposal from the Labour Party. That is why I am very pleased that we now have a government that has notified us of a capacity alert in the criminal justice system this fall, so that we can get started doing what we need, namely to increase the capacity of criminal justice. Then it might be possible to relate to the rule that we already have, given the smooth cell usage of 48 hours. I think these are issues that are absolutely fundamental to the trust in Norwegian criminal justice. That is why it is important that we now take this very seriously and that is why we have also praised the Left to present the proposal. I have also found that we have a Minister of Justice who fully agrees that we have to do something here. I therefore look forward to the message we are now to receive for the autumn from the Minister of Justice and the Government. Otherwise, I would encourage everyone to vote in favour of the majority proposal and hope that we can in any case continue the good work of respecting the 48-hour deadline, dignity and human rights regardless of political background.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1437	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for their good work. I think it is a good practice for the Committee to agree that when we get representative proposals with good intentions and good proposals, we work together and come to a broad consensus on good proposals. This is an important step that the government and the committee want to take, and that more – and in particular the case-rapporteur – were at the heart of it is a problem for which we have a great responsibility. Those who have read the matters that have been mentioned in particular in the evening post during the last days must also take up the serious criticism that comes against us. I have to say that I am surprised – or not surprised, because I have heard the figures before – that there are still so many. I'm surprised. When it is pointed out that eleven have been sitting more than five days on smooth cell only in ours, and that the Oslo police nearly 300 times have broken the 48-hour deadline only in the first four months of 2014, it is a major challenge for the Minister of Justice to follow up the ambitious decisions that we are adopting today. It also shows the seriousness of the committee when we want to follow it up, but it shows not least that the police have to do an even better job in order not to break human rights. Now we're not going to comment on the verdict that has come until it's justifiable. But it's clear that in any case it's a very clear signal, in which the state is convicted of human rights violations, and it commits. I would also like to commend the Left for a good proposal, but I think I share a lot of the rapporteur's views on the proposals, where I feel that they do not necessarily solve the challenge. There are ambitious and good intentions in the proposals, but I think the proposals that the Committee is making are very important to prevent the 48-hour deadline from being breached. As I see it, there is a shortage of detention centres and detention centres, and there is also better coordination between the criminal services and the police to do so – especially the last. If a person actually takes it seriously, they're passed on to the police. I would also like to stress that although there is criticism in terms of detention centres, we are pleased that the Council of State has begun to work on increasing custody positions. We want to put a lot of pressure on it. Especially when the harvest comes, and we get a big message that goes on the crime scene and on the capacity, we're going to be eager to do a job there. Then we are also pleased with the majority comment and the proposal that the 48-hour deadline should be strictly respected. It should be a matter of course, but at least it's important to us that it's come along. I would also like to stress that children should not sit on smooth cell. Everything else must have been tested before it has to be used in some cases, but the general rule is that it should not be used. And then I want to raise what goes on in the minimum standard, that we can do something with the cells to make it better to be there, to reduce the isolation feeling. I have seen that some attempts have already been made, but I hope that the Minister of Justice also has pressure on it. All in all, I think you're going a few steps further, even though I see the challenges of solving the excessive amount of breach of the 48-hour deadline that we unfortunately see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1458	The issue we have to deal with today is how we treat human society using coercive measures against, for either a short period or a long period, people who may have done something stupid, but who have no possibility of getting out of the situation they are in after an attack. Then the public has a responsibility for them, and in Norwegian criminal justice, everyone should receive a humane and fair treatment. I'm glad the case is on the agenda, and that we're given the opportunity to take some action. There have been some criticisms about Norway's handling of the use of smooth cells. There is also a non-judicial verdict from Oslo District Court, which points to the same relationship. In my opinion, this is mainly due to a system error. The error is that a non-ordinary prison or prison cell has to offer those put in custody. This is a misunderstanding between the number of cells affected and the number of cells in custody. Concerns to be addressed in these kinds of cases are needed by the police for the use of isolation and investigational concerns, and on the other hand the concerns of individuals. We should not forget the police's needs here either, but at the same time it is quite possible to reconcile it with a humane treatment of the inmates. It's not to stick under the chair that there's a reason some people are being put on just smooth cell, but it doesn't exempt us from the responsibility of having a humane treatment of people. The principle is and should be that coercive measures must not be more invasive than is necessary. In practice, smooth cell should only be used when necessary. When a politician visits a smooth cell, it's hard to imagine what it's like to sit there when the door is closed. If it's for some hours, it may be manageable, but when it becomes many hours and days after, the danger of delay is great. The number of people taking their life on the smooth cell is high. It can be due to both psychiatry, intoxication, and the gripped take the attack very seriously. We as society must facilitate that this cannot happen. The 48-hour rule must be followed. There's no reason, as I see it, that he's going to be different. The most important thing to achieve this is to have sufficient number of custody places. I would also like to say that the proposals from the Labour Party and the Center Party in the configuration are good. They will much improve the situation, while making it a little more humane to sit on smooth cell for those who need it. One should immediately begin to house individual cells around the arrests. Then you should not forget that there will always be a need for smooth cells. Of course, for people who are a danger to themselves, the safest option is a smooth cell there and then, but for the great majority, that's not necessary. It is also important to state that infants, as a clear general rule, should not be placed in smooth cells. Last week we had a good debate on prison capacity. The same arguments could also be used today. This only underlines the need for the Minister to get on the road quickly in order to increase prison capacity. It is therefore remarkable to me that the government party does not participate in the proposals of the Labour Party and the Centre Party. These are proposals that are not demeaning, but that will have great significance for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1481	The problem of excessive use of smooth cells is not a new problem. It is a problem that has existed for decades and that the Norwegian State has been repeatedly criticised by both the European Torture Committee, the United Nations Torture Committee, the UN Human Rights Committee and our own civil ombudsman. We are all responsible for the development and existence of this practice, without any problems being overcome. There are many aspects of today's smooth cells that have been criticized: that the cells are too sparingly decorated, that there is no stimuli available to the brain, that the affected cannot be out in daylight long enough, that you cannot control the lighting on the cells, etc. I am pleased that the bulk of the population now points to these conditions as something they want to do with. But if we're going to get rid of the most serious ratio around the use of smooth cells, namely the isolation, then there has to be another rule change, and I believe that the majority of the Biggest isn't willing to take inwards. Last week, the state went on an atrocious defeat in Oslo District Court. The case involved a 44-year-old man who was placed in police custody on two occasions. For example, if insulation is written rights: ‘It is therefore not in the opinion of the Court that in any event isolation is contrary to the Convention. [[...]] The problem with current practice is that isolation beyond a short assessment period is not justified by other than capacity problems and has been justified by capacity problems over a few decades. There is no individual assessment of the need. Therefore, after a relatively short stay in the arrest, it would, in the opinion of the court, constitute an infringement of the rights of the prisoner under Article 8 to remain in isolation.» The police department has published an overview showing that there were 4,250 arrests in the police detention centre for over 48 hours in 2013. Some of these are also the responsibility of the Council of State. The evening post had an article last week, to which the representative Ropstad also referred, which showed that only the Oslo police had broken the 48-hour rule almost 300 times only during the first four months of the year. All eleven people had been sitting for more than five days on smooth cell only in our here in Oslo. Lack of prison capacity has been the reason for several thousand deaths in a year and for frequent and systematic human rights violations in Norway for several decades. This is also the point of today's political majority. But this doesn't hold up as argument anymore. The Oslo District Court ruling is clear that capacity problems are not sufficient to justify keeping people isolated in the police detention centre. Several prisons are to be built in Norway, and so are we in the left, but building a prison takes time. In the meantime, current political leadership is responsible for the human rights violations committed against individuals. If we are to overcome the problem of overcrowding now and not several years in time, when a new prison is ready, we need a change of rules. We in the Left have now put forward a proposal which means that, within four hours of the attack, the person will normally be inserted into a prison cell or an equivalent equipped cell in the police's premises. Prisoners who have not been determined to be in custody shall have the right to receive visits, to send and receive letters, to take and receive telephone calls, and to have contact with other prisoners. In any case, transfer to criminal services shall take place within 48 hours. The decision on the use of smooth cell shall be taken by the prosecution authority. We in the Left have been willing to discuss ourselves until agreement is reached, but unfortunately we note that the political majority is not willing to take the necessary steps to get a rule change in place – even after we have received a crushing verdict in Oslo. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Left, which is to be distributed in the Chamber. Should this fall, we will vote in a subsidiary way for the Labour Party and the proposal of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1505	The representative Iselin Nybø has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1508	Let me first thank the Left-wing rapporteurs for putting an important issue on the agenda – although I believe that the Left-wing proposal is not realistic in today's picture. I also think it is appropriate to thank the Committee for good cooperation, and the rapporteur for a good job. I also think that the debate has illustrated in a very good way some of the challenges we are actually facing, where there are different interests that are opposed to each other. I'll come back to it a little bit in my post. I share the concern that an excessive number of arrested and custody prisoners are in the police arrests for too long. In recent years, the proportion of arrests longer than 48 hours in police arrests has been increasing. The average number of custodians has increased significantly since 2006, and there has been a trend towards longer seating times. The reason for this development is that we don't have enough prisons. Several speakers have noted that there is a close and decisive link between the number of prisons available to us and custody sonaring, policing and overcrowding. However, let me say that it is also important to have in mind the heavy reasons on which people can be apprehended and kept in custody. In recent years, we have seen a significant increase in serious, criminal offences committed by foreign nationals, where detention regularly appears to be a necessary step in criminal prosecution. The Norwegian police have focused their efforts on the organised and cross-border criminal groups, and today it is approx. 59 pst. by the persons in custody of non-residents. This work has produced results, but it has also led to a need for new disposal sites and disposal sites. In my view, former governments have not sufficiently facilitated the need for the expansion of prison sites as a result of the changed crime scene. When we discuss how to reduce the time people are under police arrest, it is important to have a broad approach. The most important thing would have been to put in place a sufficient number of prisons. It also reflects a debate we had in this room last week, where the capacity challenges in criminal justice were very much addressed. In order to prevent further negative developments in breaches of deadlines for transfer from police detention to prison, the government proposed a capacity extension of 88 posts during 2014 in Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2013–2014. These were adopted by the Stortinget. But we need more capacity in criminal care, and it's said that it's about 90 pst. coverings that will be optimal to meet police needs for custody and the flexibility needed in criminal matters. Today, the capacity utilisation is approx. 98 pst. Of course, it's an alternative to bring down the coating to 90 pst. The consequence of that is going to be a dramatic growth in the housing queue. This shows in a way the limits to which we must always relate. One decision has implications for another type of priority. Then, of course, I am familiar with the verdict in Oslo District Court of 2 June of this year, on which the representative Nybø was very much involved in his speech. The verdict is for evaluation in the department, and we have not decided whether to appeal the case. However, whatever the final outcome, the judgment reminds us of the unfortunate effect of the lack of capacity in criminal justice, and it also underlines the need for the implementation of the measures planned by the government. In short, I can say, as I said last week, everything would be so much better if previous governments had given priority to the construction of prison places. Now we have to do that job as well, and we're going to do that. Finally, I have to say that I think it is good to have what appears to be an almost total collapse in our backs when we are going to tackle the formidable challenge – and I would like to stress it: the formidable challenge – to which the Left's representative proposal refers and to which the Stortinget will now contribute to giving the government some work related tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1528	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1531	The councils were so little involved in it at its end. We know that this is a big challenge. And as I was in my post, there are almost 300 violations of the 48-hour deadline only in the first four months of Oslo Police District. It's serious. But I have to acquit the Minister of Justice, because this is a problem that is inherited and that must be the responsibility of all parties in this Chamber. But I would like to hear the Minister of Justice's considerations about the short-term solution – what to do, what to do, what to do in order to avoid that there is actually such a large number of violations of something that is clear from the law, and where we now obviously have a judgment that means that there is a violation of human rights? Can the council share any of its thoughts around this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1536	First, I have to say that the law is not completely square in 48 hours; it is also an exception that may apply in some cases. But I agree that this is a challenge that is inherited. At the same time, it is absolutely essential for us to ensure that one has the necessary capacity in the criminal justice system to help us avoid getting a police arrest. A lot of those in police custody are sitting there for a reason, and that's a reason why you have to take them out of free society. The best thing would then be that one could also transfer significantly faster, preferably, from police arrest to custody. We're taking the mission from Stortinget in the greatest seriousness. As the representative is well aware, we are now sending a criminal health report to the autumn, where these issues will also be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1543	I would like to follow up on the question to the representative Ropstad a little, because, as he was also in the house, there are 4,250 people who are so-called superscripts and have been sitting for more than 48 hours in 2013. The Council of State is not responsible for all of them, but when we read in the evening post that the first four months of this year there are 300 meetings only in the Oslo police district and the entire eleven who have been sitting more than five days on smooth cell, these are meetings taking place with the power of this Council of State. My question is: What concrete action does the Council of State see that he will take to remove these human rights violations before we have an expanded prison capacity, because it is going to take time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1550	I agree that this is a critical situation, but I don't think a should create the impression that this can be solved overnight. So those who are sitting over today are not sitting over because there is a wanted situation on the part of the police, not because it is a desired situation on my part – or from someone else’s side – but because the option is worse. That's why I think it's necessary that we allow ourselves to see this in context, that we use the time that's needed to solve it. Part of the solution, which the Committee itself has pointed out, may be to change the way in which a police arrest cell is designed, in order to reduce the burden placed on it. So I think we have to look at multiple tracks. The representative is probably familiar with the Vestfold police district, which has implanted some cells in a slightly different way. The new Eastfold police district police station has both clock and light control. And there's a difference between old police cells and those that are now being built in new police houses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1559	If the President allows that, I'd like to make another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1564	There's room for one more, so be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1567	Thank you for that. I understand that at this point the Council of State does not want to answer whether the judgment will be appealed or not, because it is a decision that contains many different elements and that must certainly be discussed in the department before the decision is taken. But can the Council of State respond to whether he believes that today's practice, where some are sitting for up to five days on smooth cell, in isolation, is in line with human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1574	I believe that that practice is not in line with the legislation in force in Norway, and that is why we need to resolve it. When it comes to the relationship between human rights and the requirements of human rights, I think one has to look a little bit at what is the actual criticism, because that's not necessarily the context that emerges from the judgment – which I'm not going to comment on – that's the crucial thing. But we'll get back to it at a later stage, when we know whether this judgment will be just or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1579	It was really the answer instead that made me want a new line. I think it is a little surprising that there are so many deadlines when there has been so much focus on the problem. That is why I would like to hear the Minister of Justice's reflections about it. The Committee is clear that a better system of transfer to criminal services must be provided, plus a 48-hour deadline. But when something is clearly not done, is the reason why the police are unable to keep the deadline that they do not have custody places where they can put prisoners, is it that they simply commit – or do not do a good enough job to reach it within the 48-hour deadline – or is the question open, for that matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1586	There may be several causalities, but the main reason is lack of access to ordinary custody. The fact that we have such a high coverage has a price, and parts of that price are increased overloading. It's possible to solve it, as I mentioned in my main post, by reducing the coverage of criminal services and going down from today, about 98 pst., to a lower percentage, but it will have the consequence that prison queues are further increasing. There's actually one main solution to this, and there's several places available for prison. It will be the best contribution to preventing overloading. I think we must also respect the complicated assessment that the police are facing every day, where it is, for example. serious convictions of violence which must either be released or sit for a few hours. And when we talk about oversitting, there's a difference between oversitting in one to two, three, four or five hours and for several days, while the statistics that this refers to are all intersecting over one comb.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1594	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1597	I did not participate in the debate last week, but I still allow myself to have some opinions on this. I think it is touching to hear representatives from the Left and the Labour Party point out the challenges we are facing today. I have been here so long that I have experienced a Justice Minister from the Left in his time who had a great heart for many, but who failed to deliver in relation to their own ambitions. Then it becomes quite easy, I think, to come today and point out that today's government does not deliver. The same applies to the Workers' Party. I have to say that one of my good friends, big-time representative and former government councillor Knut Storberget once said that you don't get re-elected by focusing on criminal custody. It well confirms today's debate and last week's debate, which shows that not least the Labour Party through various government councils has not taken the steps you have had to take. The Labour Party invokes the honor of Halden Prison. It belongs to Bondevik II, who started the first appropriations there. The representative, Leirstein, was concerned that today's government has done some work, not least in relation to Ila. Yes, there is also something I am proud of. We have people who experience day-to-day isolation, not people who are inside one day, two days or three days, but who are actually within a system where isolation unfortunately is the solution. It has been ignored by the Workers' Party and the company for eight years – while walking around and hitting your chest and complaining that things are so bad now. It's possible to see the light only when you're in opposition, and then you lose reality when you're in charge. In that case, I'm going to be so open and direct that I'm going to say that if the situation doesn't get better during this period, I'm going to be the first one to stand here and say that we didn't do a job that was good enough, the Council didn't get through enough for the things that should have been done, and we've also failed to meet our own ambitions. I believe that one of the most important things you do as a politician is to have an ambition to make things happen, to make a change. If you don't, you should at least be so honest and say that you have done something, but did not come as far as you wanted. This debate is all about completely different things; it is about the waiver of facts and taking responsibility for what has actually happened. If you look at the history of the Left, of Bondevik II and of the Workers' Party, they set a Norwegian record to give a special penalty discount. There has never been anyone who has been close to giving that type of discount. It's all of a sudden gone, not interesting, and you focus one-sidedly on what's the problem today, that someone is missing custody. Let it be clear: Of course, I do not want the state to commit a crime – not at all. But I think the Minister of Justice is drawing up a dilemma that is quite interesting: how would the reaction have been among prominent politicians in the Justice Committee and elsewhere if a person who – let's say, hypothetically – had committed sexual abuse against children had to be released because there were no custody places, and people who had committed gross violence were released? It is not sure that the shelf choir would have been anything else then.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1614	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1617	Sometimes it's refreshing with people who speak right from Lera, as we say in Southland. This was a clear confirmation that last week’s debate on prison was a political game. It was the last government that put money on the table to a new prison. The Progress Party postponed the plans for the construction of Halden Prison because they would have investigated alternative arrangements for the construction of the prison. The previous government put money on the table to a new prison in Halden, no one can come from. We give full honor to Dørum, who was on the line to get that prison planned. The same cannot be said of the Progress Party when it comes to having it implemented. The same cannot be said of the Progress Party in implementing the construction of the prison as the previous government decided — in terms of spending money on the table. The representative Ellingen is talking about a hypothetical situation in which someone releases people who have committed criminal acts, because there is a lack of custody. It's not a hypothetical situation, it's the situation we have today. I don't know if the representative has read the posts about the lack of capacity the last time we had a debate, or what was in a joint report in the media from Haugaland and Agder – where they release many every week because there is no capacity in prison. But we have a government that says, To the harvest, to the harvest. It's going to take a long time,' says the Council of State. He has repeatedly from this pulpit how long it's going to take to get these places built. And it's a reality – that's what it is. It is the facts on which this case is based and on which the prison case was based. We are very pleased with the political consensus in the committee at this point in terms of reducing the number of transfers. We have deeply disagreed that the government has chosen to ignore speeding up the prison building. We had proposals that would initiate it faster, but it seems that for this government it is more important that it is the seas that propose to build prisons than that they come into place quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1624	I think we have to be clear in this case that we all have a responsibility for that it has become as it has become. For this is not something that has appeared in the last year, nor in the last ten years. Odd Einar Dørum's term of justice was mentioned. It is quite right that Odd Einar Dørum did a lot of good, among other things. The Civil Ombudsman's report says that the number of transfers went down in that period, even if you didn't get it away. What's important to remember is that politics is about wanting. And politics is about prioritizing. In the Left, we want to do something about this issue, and we see that this is something we need to prioritise – not just because we have been repeatedly criticised by various torture committees and human rights committees for many years, but also because we actually have a verdict against us today in Oslo District Court saying that the use we have today is not in line with human rights. Then I have to admit that I have some problems seeing how things relate. The left wants a change of rules to deal with this problem, while the majority parties point out – and are very clear when they speak – that the 48-hour rule should be strictly practised. I have problems seeing how it is related to what the Minister of Justice just said – that this is a capacity problem that it is going to take time to solve – because the capacity challenges are what has been used as an argument for not doing anything about the excesses for decades. It takes time to build a new prison. How the Minister of Justice is now going to be able to comply with the 48-hour rule in the short term in order to fulfill the beautiful promises of the majority from this pulpit, I have a little difficulty understanding. But, as I said, politics is about wanting, and I hope that the government will deal with the human rights violations that are now happening almost daily in our arrests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1635	We need a little temperature, that's good. One of the paradoxes I experience in this debate is that there is a great deal of disclaimer. It is a fact that the Labour Party had the Minister of Justice for eight years. It is also a fact that the Workers' Party in the government opened up many places of settlement. If I don't remember correctly, Storberget said that there had never been opened as many places as in the previous period – the eight years of government. The challenge with the same places was that you were the world champion in open places, while the rest of Norway screamed for closed places. Of course, the representative of the Workers' Party is right in saying that when I say it's hypothetical, it's not. But my point was just to sketch how this forum would react if – or when – there were cases where people who should be in the room got out. That's no news. It's known to those degrees. It is a strange thing for me that the Workers' Party has not taken any more hold of it. The same applies to the relationships we have discussed today with regard to Ila and isolation. I understand that the Workers' Party does not want to talk about it. It must be a disgrace to the policy that has been pursued by the government for eight years, that there has been no ability or willingness to do anything about it. But the possibilities are there. As the representative from the Left said, politics is about willingness to do something. It's also about the will to not do anything. The difference between my post and the posts I have heard from others is that I am clear that if today's government doesn't deliver, I will be the first to stand here and say that we haven't done a good enough job – we could have done more in advantage, we didn't get as far as we wanted. I'm going to have a spine to stand here and say just that. I will not be held responsible, I will, on the contrary, be involved in taking responsibility if today's government does not deliver. But I'm 110 pst. Make sure today's Minister of Justice doesn't think it's enough with a bad aftertaste, so I'll take that with a stoic calm.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1644	I've always wondered that we politicians are so bad at admitting it if we haven't done the job properly, or if we've made a mistake. I've always rested on why it's so hard to admit that on that and that field we might not have done enough, we didn't achieve our goals. I think we might have had much less political contempt if we, as politicians – national politicians, not least – had been honest from time to time and said straight away that here we had a goal, but we didn't achieve the goal. Instead, it is quite common political tactics to start shooting from the hip in pure attack style in the absence of good arguments in defense. That's what we got a classic performance about now by the representative Kari Henriksen. Amazingly, after eight years of government without being able to decide to build a new prison, you come six months after you've left the government, with the glaring idea that maybe you should build a new prison! It's amazing that you can say that after the debate we had last week. Had the Stortinget then decided to build a new prison in Agder, this problem had been solved. What we are discussing today is quite serious. It's pretty serious that we actually have to resort to the step of breaking the 48-hour rule to keep some people in custody. But that problem has not occurred after the election either, this problem has been going on for years. For years, we have held people against the law – for years, among others. for eight years with Ministers of Justice from the Labour Party. Could not the Labour Party have used this opportunity today, when we are bringing together the Committee on Some Important Goals and Suggestions, to admit that yes, you didn't stick to it, you didn't achieve the goals, you actually didn't do the job you were actually set to do? There had been respect for admitting that one could not deliver. Because how every day do you have a good conscience considering what you've done with the 48-hour rule and having people on smooth cell? You can't have a good conscience, can you? You sit for eight years, and then the situation gets worse. Among other things, we have received this judgment, even though it is not enforceable, from Oslo District Court. It's a cross of thought. That is why I had hoped that this debate today would show that a total increase is taking this on and seeing that there are many people here who have not done the job you should have done. But the article to the spokesperson from the Workers' Party suggests that here the government will not get any drag help from the Workers' Party. It's okay, we're going to deliver. We have some goals, and if we're not going to achieve the goals, we're going to have to be the first to admit that we couldn't. But I have great faith in today's government, that we are going to be able to get a new direction on these challenges, which unfortunately are also something we have inherited.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1653	Then the next and most recently recorded state councillor, Anders Anundsen, speaks. And then we'll see if this last one holds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1656	The last word should perhaps have been said after the previous articles, which I think were very good. It was the representative Henriksen who also made me speak. It is a strange sense of reality when you say that last week the Storting decided not to build a prison in Agder, while the Workers' Party should have put money on the table. That Workers' Party added money to the table was a new step in the quality assurance path. Not a single prison would be built by those crowns, not a single spade would be taken. So there is an attempt here to create some idea that the Workers' Party has been forward-looking for the last six–seven months in terms of the construction of prisons. I think there's a little too much local politics that we can take it seriously. The reason why I think it's important to mention this is that it's not that an untruth that is repeated often enough becomes true just because it repeats. We put 88 prisons on the table – fresh prisons – in 2014. The Labour Party government could have done that in 2013. It didn't. There are a number of measures that could have been implemented by the previous government in a significantly shorter time than building a new prison, for example. the construction of prison sites within existing walls, which are important for this government to prioritise. That's what you chose not to do. I'm just a little provoked that it's always so easy to solve problems when you don't have the responsibility to solve them anymore, while when you're responsible for solving them, what should be done is not done. And this is a development that has particularly come under the Labour Party government, because the crime scene in terms of the number of foreign custody prisoners has been speeding up since 2006. Then some things could be done when you saw this trend evolve, instead of waiting for you to lose the government power and then say that now it's just building new prisons, now it's just keeping the 48-hour rule – now it's 'only'. The representative Henriksen should know, with the experience she has, that it is not ‘only’. Things have consequences, things take time. We're solving what we can, as quickly as possible, and I wish the previous government had done the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1663	Then the next – and last – speaker, the representative, Kari Henriksen. Kari Henriksen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1666	I want in my final article to try to withdraw this matter to what is actually what we are discussing here today. Everyone who's been on the pulpit has pointed to capacity. There is not one person who has stood on this platform who has not mentioned the capacity challenges associated with the deadline transfer. If the Minister of Justice can go to this pulpit and say that the previous government didn't have a decision to build a new prison, to start planning on building a new prison, and had decided to build a prison in Agder, that's good. The information we're sitting with, and what's in Prop. 1 S, there were budgetary priorities related to building a prison. I'm glad Ellingen is talking about the ability and willingness to get things going. The point of progress in position may look more dark on it with regard to the things they have now caught in relation to, for example. tolls. And then the solution is going to be percent. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1674	That's it. Looks like Jan Arild Ellingsen's giving up. That was a wise decision. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1690	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1693	I'm not going to use the 30 minutes! This is to the extent a small proposition, but a big and complicated case of Santa Claus. Therefore, once we have examined the matter, the Committee has wanted to proceed with the temporary law, so that we can get a well-worked preparatory work on the proposal for the Stortinget, so that we can adopt a final law. The challenge, as we see it, is also that the sample that has looked at the problem in connection with a NOU has come up with a shared setting. That is why we have also been concerned that the department will have the necessary time. But the reason I took the floor is that I want to stress that the committee is clear that this is an important question and a complicated question. It's important for those who are involved, both fasteners and fasteners. That is why we have also expressed impatience in the importance of finding a final solution, because it is a regulatory challenge as it is today. But we're giving this opportunity to extend the temporary law until 1 July 2015, and then we're meeting a proposition and an important treatment next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1702	On behalf of the Center Party, I need to make some comments on this matter. The case concerns whether or not the temporary law should be extended. Tomtefestelova is the shared opinion about, there's no doubt about it. The Feast Institute is well anchored in Norway, and many landowners have income from absconding as an important part of the nutritional basis. The debate on Santa Claus is often linked to feelings, and whatever one does, it will have consequences for many. For the centre party, it is important to create foreclosure for the party and to have fair management of the landowner. So until today's debate is about concrete. With the time this matter has now taken, it was impracticable for the Storting to adopt a permanent law change before the summer. One might therefore say that we have been a hostage in order for the temporary law to be extended. I want to say that I am skeptical that these required changes in Santa Claus Festival let wait. After the much-discussed judgment in the European Court of Human Rights, the Red-Green Government set up a law selection to look at how to adapt the law to this judgment. There has been a long time since the selection made its setting, and the selection also made proposals for changes. The theme is so well done, but the issue is still difficult to deal with politically. We can't postpone things and push decisions just because they're difficult. That's not what we're chosen for here. I am particularly concerned when, in addition, I see that the government does not ignore the fact that the temporary law can be extended beyond 1 July 2015. The legal situation we have in this area today creates a great deal of uncertainty in the market. This is unfortunate whether a party is attached or attached. The market is still, and people are waiting. The fact that there will be two conflicting visions in this matter cannot surprise anyone. Lawmakers have to weigh each other's concerns and cut each other through. In many areas, the Minister of Justice is very busy showing his power of action. I expect he'll show it in this area as well. Saka is overly mature for conclusion, and my hope is that during the fall the government will make proposals to the Stortinget with proposals for permanent changes in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1715	In many ways, I can join very much of the previous speech spoken from here. As far as the Right is concerned, we have placed great emphasis on the importance of the judgment in Strasbourg in the European Court of Human Rights. But there is no doubt that that judgment also opens up to an important principle discussion, and that it can probably be a very good investment that as a legislative assembly we invest the necessary time in just getting a good result, because this is a case with two clear sides as it is our task as legislator to balance in the best possible way, now also including the judgment of the EMD. The right-hand side definitely shares the impatience that was expressed on the part of the Centre Party in the matter, while also being very concerned that the decision-making basis that we get on our table is of such quality that we are able to make the necessary adjustments, which are complicated in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1722	Just briefly: I think we very much agree in the whole hall that it is important that this is done as soon as possible. It has been very difficult to get this up to the Stortingen for adoption before the summer, which would prevent us from extending this temporary law somewhat. The consultation deadline expired on 10 January, and it is a major and important policy topic to be addressed in this proposition. But there's an obvious impatience also from the government to get this completed. At the same time, we are not underestimating complexity. That's why we said in the proposition that it can't be ruled out that this can take any longer. It is also up to this house, which I suppose will have time and space to have a real round on this matter when it comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1727	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1741	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1750	The Committee has examined representatives from Bård Vegar Solhjell and Karin Andersen to receive several Syrian refugees. The humanitarian crisis in Syria is one of the greatest humanitarian crises of our time, and an overall committee is concerned about the situation, and it does not seem to be improving. By the end of 2014, there will be about 4.1 million people fleeing Syria, most of whom will be in neighbouring countries. The region around Syria is severely affected by the conflict in the country and bears the greatest burden of refugees. As of 14 May, there were 6.5 million internally displaced persons in Syria and 2.5 million refugees in neighbouring countries. It is the poor neighbouring countries Lebanon and Jordan that have received most and a total of over half of all Syrian refugees. Increased efforts by the world community are needed in this region, and the Committee notes that Norway has contributed 1.31 billion. kr to help refugees in Syria and the surrounding region. An overall committee points out that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees has asked Western countries both to receive more refugees and to provide assistance in the region. The crisis is growing, and the High Commissioner is asking the international community to increase its efforts. Until now in 2014, the UN has only received 25 pst. the means they need to provide assistance to refugees in the region. The Committee is gathered around that we believe that Norway should take its share of the responsibility of the international community to help Syrian refugees, and that this should be a combination of aid to refugees in the region and to receive more at home here. The Christian People's Party will praise the Socialist Left Party for lifting the situation in Syria and putting Norway's contribution on the agenda. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important to respond to this disaster, and that Norway takes its share of responsibility for people who are fleeing. At the same time, we need to make sure that we think completely and contribute where the help reaches most and is most effective, and that we can make decisions on a good basis. We support the intention in the proposal that we should accept more refugees, but do not support the SV proposal itself. We would rather ask the government to come back to Stortinget with a statement on how best to help, and then we expect it to contain concrete proposals on how, how much and how many, so that the Stortinget can make a well-founded decision on how Norway should contribute. We are therefore pleased that there has been a majority around the proposal that the government should return to the Storting, so that we ensure that this crisis is not forgotten, and that Norwegian efforts are made effectively. I refer to the proposal for a decision in the Committee's position, which is supported by a majority: ‘The government asks the Stortinget Government to explain how Norway can assist neighbouring countries such as Lebanon and Jordan in managing the refugee flow from Syria, as well as an assessment of how many more Syrian refugees Norway can receive in 2014-2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1779	First, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers, who contribute to putting the refugee situation in and around Syria on the agenda. The Workers' Party shares their concerns and concerns about the humanitarian disaster that is taking place in the shadow of the war in Syria. The consequences of the war mean an enormous burden on millions of people. The situation is developing, and the suffering is already too great. This requires that the world reacts and helps. Norway is among the countries that provide much in relation to their population. That is good, but I think we must be prepared to help more. Most of the help must be given where the majority of the refugees are, but we in the Workers' Party believe that Norway has a moral responsibility to accept our share of people as refugees from war and persecution. In Document No: 15:704. The Workers' Party asked the government a written question. It sounded like: ‘Does the Council of State intend to take the initiative of a joint and coordinated European effort to address the critical refugee situation due to the crisis in Syria?’ In the foreign minister's reply, it appears that the government will not take such an initiative. The humanitarian disaster in Syria is the worst in modern times. Over 120 000 people are killed, millions are on the run and hit by the war. Norway can and should make a difference. Fortunately, it is reassuring that the UNHCR is making a great deal of effort down there, and Norway has, over many years, cooperated well with the UN High Commissioner and received clear recognition for it. People living in refugee camps over a long period of time must renounce important humanitarian rights. There are things that indicate that the conflict in Syria can be long-lasting and make the humanitarian disaster even bigger. For several reasons, it is important that Norway contributes to increased efforts for those who have to live in camps involuntarily. Then the Labour Party disagrees with the government, which has announced that it will change the criteria for the selection of what kind of refugees can receive protection in Norway as a quota refugee. In wars and disasters, the need should be to save lives and help people out of need as quickly as possible. A new model has been announced in the government platform, where consideration of the integration potential in Norway should weigh more heavily on whether or not a refugee should be helped out of a war zone. This breaks with humanitarian thinking and puts the needs of the helpers ahead of those who suffer. In the event of major disasters and in the event of war, the time to help is of particular importance. The practices announced are unsolvable and bureaucratic and delay the impact of our own efforts. The Labour Party also agrees that most of the effort needs to be deployed where most of the refugees are, but Norway must also be prepared to accept more quota refugees here. The distribution of Norwegian efforts outside and at home must take place in close dialogue with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. It is regrettable that the government chose to cut the proposal for 1000 more quota refugees from the Stoltenberg II government to 500 more this year. The Labour Party will stress that Norway has always been known to contribute to major disasters. Norway should also know its visitation time this time and should constantly assess how we can make a difference between the people suffering. I am pleased that a majority in the vote gathers on a proposal which asks the government to present a statement on how Norway can assist neighbouring countries in managing the flow of refugees, and at the same time assess how many more Syrian refugees Norway can receive this year and for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1806	I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, who has presented the matter well, and also the proposers, who have put the situation in Syria and the refugee crisis in Syria on the agenda. I am also pleased that the proposers in this case actually gather about something the government is already doing. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees has called the crisis in Syria the biggest refugee crisis in the world since World War II. 6.5 million people are internally displaced, almost 2.8 million have fled the country. The humanitarian needs are enormous, and the UN has also launched the greatest humanitarian appeal through history to meet precisely these needs. Norway’s contribution is significant. We've contributed over 1.3 billion. humanitarian aid since the beginning of the conflict in 2011. Only in the first six months of this year has the government given about 750 million. to Syria measures. Over 450 million. kr are humanitarian contributions by the UN and Norwegian and foreign non-governmental organisations, helping displaced persons in Syria and refugees in the region with shelter, food, medicine and schooling. Norway is with this the sixth largest humanitarian donor. I am very pleased that we in this Chamber are in a cross-political agreement that Norway should contribute to remedying the humanitarian crisis. Measured in the population, we also accept most refugees in Europe. Sweden receives more than what Norway does, but measured in the population, we receive the most. There are already more than 5,000 refugees with residence decisions at the refugee receptions around Norway today, after the previous government left it as an inheritance, and what I am pleased about, is that the settlement for those who will have to stay is going faster than it did at the same time last year, and that those who are not going to enter our country and are not going to have to stay get out faster. I'm really glad that the government actually takes over this area too, because one thing is to help where the refugees are, in the countries around Syria and in Syria, one other thing is to receive more here at home. As of 2014, we have received 1000 to 500 seats for Syrian refugees in addition to 500 seats on the ordinary quota for Syrian refugees, a total of 1000 seats for this group. I recall that in 2014, Norway is above both Sweden, Germany and Denmark in relation to the population in terms of the reception of transfer refugees from Syria. The important thing is that we also manage to help the refugees in the neighbourhoods where they are. Norway contributes well by means of funds. I am also pleased that the government is constantly following the situation, both with money and with the means of relief in the areas around it, and that we are doing our duty and assuming our responsibilities by facilitating that we also receive 1000 Syrian refugees who are asking for residence in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1823	There is no doubt that there is a terrible situation in Syria and that the humanitarian disaster that has major consequences for the civilian population in Syria. So I give full support to the representative from the Right when it comes to the facts; I'm of the same opinion. When we're faced with these kind of major disasters that the world has barely seen fit to face, I think it's very important that we dispose of our resources in terms of financial resources and also of crews and other things in such a way that we can help as many people as possible. When we know that Norway already accepts most refugees in Europe, I think it is right to spend our money in such a way that we can help as much as possible in the neighbourhoods. It is true that Norway – and this has also been mentioned here earlier – receives 1 000 refugees. Only Sweden accepts more, with 1,200, and Sweden has approx. twice as many inhabitants as we have in Norway. So we've done both: we've contributed funds to help the people of Syria, and we accept our share and so it's when we're at the top of Europe. What I think is a little worrying is that the representatives of the SV – and the proposers – say unilaterally that if you do not want to receive more refugees from Syria, you are almost not concerned about the humanitarian disaster that has affected the civilian population in Syria. I think that's very strange, because if we can help so many people in the neighbourhoods of Syria versus what we can do here in Norway, the best thing for the civilian population affected by this major disaster will be to help them in the neighbourhoods. So it's not quite right, as the Labour Party representative said, that this government has cut the number of refugees to receive from Syria. It was never the case under the previous government that 2,000 refugees from Syria were accepted. It was a proposal they made only when they had to leave the government offices. So we've never received more Syrian refugees than what we do under this government. It's a fact. One cannot pretend that proposals that have never been adopted by the national Parliament were a reality when it was never a reality. I think it's sad that you're trying to make a game out of that piece. The reality is that this government has increased the number of refugees you receive from Syria. We in the Progress Party believe that we need to continue to help, but where we can get the most back for the few resources we have available. I would also like to encourage the representatives of the Socialist Left Party, that is. the proposers, to consider a little why they have not made this type of proposal in the past. For this conflict is not new. It escalated and was at its worst from 2011, but much of it started already in 2006. There was no suggestion to accept several Syrian refugees throughout this period. It was only when you left the government offices, when you were on your way out of the government offices, that you found out that you wanted to receive some more Syrian refugees. And it's not entirely related to the rhetoric you use outside and in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1840	The civil war in Syria has led to a humanitarian disaster that has consequences for the whole region. We have been informed that there are 6.5 million people who have had to escape from their homes and residences, but who are still living in Syria. In Syria’s neighboring country, there are about 2.5 million refugees. Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey have welcomed an incredible number of people who are now living in camps under very difficult conditions. Norway needs to assist, and we are already doing so through substantial financial support to make the situation of refugees a little easier. The size has decided to receive 1000 Syrian quota refugees. The proposers invite Stortinget to increase the reception of quota refugees to 5000. The centre party does not support this proposal as it now stands, but we will be engaged in strengthening Norwegian efforts for Syrian refugees, both through the treatment of the revised national budget, which is soon to be presented, and in the budgetary work for the autumn, both through the treatment of the revised national budget, which has fled across borders and is located in the camps of neighbouring countries. The main efforts made by Norway must be put in place where the refugees are located. The goal must be that they get quick help now, and that it will be possible for them to return home and work daily in Syria. I know that the civil war in Syria does not seem to end in the near future. Nevertheless, there is assistance in Syria and in neighbouring countries that is becoming the main thing in the future. In addition, Norway should be ready to increase the reception of quota refugees. In the 2014 budget, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and SV, proposed to increase the quota, but was voted down here in the Stortinget. Although this is not the main track in our efforts for Syrian refugees, it is part of the effort that we need to give more focus to the future. First of all, the concrete proposal from the Central Party comes into the revised national budget. The government and the Storting must continue to follow the situation closely, and there must be a continuous assessment of the level of Norwegian intervention. This must be done in close dialogue with the United Nations with a view to maximising our efforts to help those affected by the civil war.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1853	First, I want to start by giving praise to the proposers. I think it's a good suggestion that focuses on something that's actually incredibly serious. From the Arab Spring, when we had great faith that this might have gone the right way in the area, this has evolved into something completely different – and from when we see TV images from Damascus, which was once one of the really great gems, to that we now have a civil war that has evolved into a humanitarian disaster. This is a concern that I share with the proposers, and one has to look at this to a much greater extent than the case is at present. In the context of a humanitarian disaster, it is not a competition for how much the world's richest country gives, but what opportunities it has to give and provide for such a disaster. That one should help the refugees where they are, we also mean. There's a need to do that, but we also have to look at the moral responsibility you have in such areas when this happens. One knows that there are major challenges to the precisely refugee flows from conflict areas and neighbouring Lebanon and Jordan, which have received almost half of the refugees. They need help to deal with that situation. The left believes that Norway has a responsibility to help them at home, and we are also willing to accept more refugees. This is, of course, a budgetary question, and the Left has demonstrated over time in its alternative budget that we are willing to accept more refugees. That is why I am pleased that there is a majority in the committee that makes it an opportunity to look at this further, and that the government is also making an assessment of how we can possibly receive more refugees and help the situation. As many people have been about, we can always talk about and look at how much we want to give, but we have to deal with the humanitarian disaster that is now in Syria. And we have to do that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1864	I was right inside the UNHCR website, and it says that there are now over 2.8 million people who have fled Syria, and that there will be 9,500 new ones for every single day. It happens now, it increases now, and the disaster increases for every hour that goes. Little Lebanon, which is the same size as my home country Hedmark and has 4 million people, has received over 1 million refugees. Jordan, Turkey and Iraq, which are not exactly rich countries, have accepted the rest – largely. I think that this big deal should bow in respect of people and countries like Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan and Iraq, who are able to deal with these refugee flows, which we cannot imagine – we who clearly believe that 5,000 is too much. There is an acute risk of epidemics in overcrowded clays, a risk of total destabilization of the whole area, and the argument that people should come to Norway in extreme need is stepped up. What Norway is doing now is not taking responsibility. The fact that other countries are doing too little is no excuse for Norway. Populations are hardly relevant, because we are the richest, and we haven't experienced accepting very many Syrian asylum seekers, as many other countries have done. We can do a lot more and go ahead with a good example. What we're proposing is a small number of refugees. That's why it should be possible to have a majority for that. But the point is that then you can also exert pressure on other countries to receive more. The UN High Commissioner has asked Sweden to coordinate the reception of 30 000 European countries. Then 5,000 would mean something. If we had done that, we might be able to do this. They're asking for it. It is very necessary because there are critical situations in the neighbourhoods. So those who think we're going to help the neighbourhoods, they get a thousand possibilities to do that, because we have to do both. On 6 May 1999, the Stortinget debated a proposal to accept 6 000 refugees from Kosovo. It was a disaster that looks like this, but not so great in numbers. Then it was just the Progress Party that was against it. The representative inge Wohnning from the Right held a post from which I would quote from. He said that at the time was Hagen's message from the Progress Party that he had «as the only parliamentary leader in this Chamber» «the robust enough conscience to ask its group to vote against this proposal. And as far as I've registered, he's also the only one who has enough imagination to pretend that we're facing an alternative: either to take these 6,000 refugees to Norway, or to help refugees in the neighbourhoods. That does not mean the UN High Commissioner. None of the Norwegian auxiliary organisations are of the opinion.’» That's the way it is now. And he continued: ‘It has never been defined in Norwegian policy in the past as an alternative either to help in the neighbourhoods or to take some refugees to Norway, to show that Norway has an obvious co-responsibility – not just to solve problems on behalf of others, but to show that we are also willing to bear some of the burdens ourselves. It is with respect to report somewhat sad that there is a political party in Norway that is unable to perceive this.’ That's what Inge Wohnning said. I don't know what he said today. Today we are richer, today we accept fewer, and the refugees are more. I hear the arguments from the majority here that say we should wait, and that the situation is very serious, but we should not accept any more now. SV is involved in the proposal for a majority decision, but we know that this government wants to cut the number of quota refugees, because they showed it in the budget. So it's asking a government to do something they don't want to do. In an emergency humanitarian situation, Norway shall be the country that does not accept it. Then I will promote the proposal, but I will also comment on the fact that the government's policy towards the quota refugees we have after all is a reason to criticise. Families are divided into wars. Those who experience the terrible breakdown into war shall be excluded from coming to Norway as quota refugees. There's only one reason for that. It's not humanitarian, it's not safe to do. It is to prevent more than the quota from arriving in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1910	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1914	I think some of the claims made by the representative Karin Andersen are so poor that I can't just sit and let it pass. That we refuse anyone to come to Norway, and that no one should be allowed to come, is not correct. As I said, there have never been more Syrian refugees in Norway than it is today. It is not cut in the number of quota refugees accepted in Norway. This was not the case under the previous government, where SV was involved, that more quota refugees were accepted – neither from Syria nor from elsewhere. It was never adopted anywhere, except in a proposal when the previous government was on its way out of government offices. So getting very morally superior to everyone else because of policies that had never been adopted, I think that's strange, and I think that's sad in such a serious matter as this. Secondly, I would like to say, what is morally wrong about saying that if you can help a certain number of people by accepting them in Norway – whether there are 5,000, 10,000, 50,000 or 100,000 – you can help many, many more people in the neighbourhood for the same amount of money and resources? There is nothing immoral about saying that instead of accepting 5,000 to 10,000 people, we may instead be able to help 30,000 to 40,000 people with the same resource use. We don't want to do that either, so that we can help even more of the people who are affected by this severe and terrible disaster. This is not immoral to claim. I react to the presentation of the representative from SV has in this case. A lot of what she claims is also wrong. There have never been more Syrian refugees than what you do under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1923	There is no doubt that the situation in Syria and neighbouring countries is dramatic. Norway has contributed financial support to the region, and we must accept 1 000 Syrian refugees on the quota for transfer refugees, of which 500 are on an additional quota. At first, I want to clarify a few aspects of the setting. When it comes to Sweden receiving 200 more Syrian refugees than Norway, reference is made to the number of quota refugees. Norway has the second largest quota for Syrian refugees in the European context, while Sweden has the largest. It is important to distinguish between the quota refugees we resettle through the UNHCR and those who had to go to a country on their own to seek asylum. So the representative Schou and other speakers are right when they say that we are the largest in reception if you see it in relation to the number of inhabitants. The recording by the Socialist Left Party representative that Sweden has been given the task of coordinating the work of extracting 30,000 quota refugees is also not quite correct. Sweden leads a contact group for UNHCR and countries that accept Syrian quota refugees or have other arrangements for relocation. The aim of the group is to increase the possibilities for resettlement and relocation, for practical cooperation and to seek dialogue with the host countries of the region. Norway also participates in this group. I have noticed that no other party has supported the proposal for a representative to resettle 5,000 refugees from Syria. I do not interpret this as a lack of sympathy with the Syrian refugees, but as a signal that there must be realism in relation to what Norway can help with. Most Syrian refugees will necessarily be in the vicinity. I note that the majority of the Committee believes that it is important that Norway contributes with support in the region. Of course, I agree with that. I also agree that the UNHCR and non-governmental organisations deserve a great deal of credit for the efforts and work that are now being done with refugees and internally displaced persons. I also notice that a majority of the committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the SV, believe that Norway must assist both in Syria, in neighbouring countries and here at home, and that it is considered at home to be natural to receive more transfer refugees. I agree and the government agrees that Norway should assist both in the region and at home. The question, however, must be which device of our overall assistance is most effective and helps most refugees. In this context, I want to get a couple of perspectives. The cost of rehabilitating 1 000 Syrian refugees in Norway is estimated at about 1 000. 155 million. kr per year. Over a five-year period, it is about. Seven hundred seventy million. kr. For 155 million. The UNHCR may cover the costs of 26000 refugees in camps in the region. I think it gives some perspectives that it's also worth including in this debate. For the same sum, we can help 13,000 refugees outside the camps. I think the main effort should be where we can help most, i.e. in the neighbourhood. I understand that the challenges facing neighbouring countries are enormous. However, we cannot ignore our own context and the fact that there are already 5,600 refugees in reception waiting for settlement. For the municipality, it will undoubtedly be a formidable additional task to increase this figure by a further 5,000 Syrian refugees. The recommendation of the Committee is that the government ask for an explanation of how Norway can assist neighbouring countries such as Lebanon and Jordan in managing the flow of refugees, and provide an assessment of how many more Syrian refugees Norway can receive in 2014 and 2015. The government will make such a statement to the Storting, and it is also natural to see this in the context of the State budget, as such a change has major economic consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1944	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1947	The Health Declaration states that the government will give priority to quota refugees with the greatest chance of successful integration. There is now a humanitarian crisis in Syria and neighbouring countries. What kind of signals does the Council of State think that the government is now sending from one of the world's richest countries to people in deep distress, and also to countries receiving far more refugees than Norway does?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1954	This sampling and sampling does not take place in such a way that it is necessary to first come to some place where Norway is standing and receiving refugees. There are also criteria today for which refugees are accepted. It's a selection process. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Right-Fremskrit Party government will develop these criteria. There is a work going on right now, because it is not unimportant that those who come here also have the opportunity to be integrated and become part of Norwegian society without necessarily going to the detriment of those who need the most help – who the representative had in his main post – who are not going to come to Norway. In any case, it will be a set of criteria for who will eventually be the lucky ones – I would say – and will be picked out to get to Norway. Therefore, I think it is important to have that perspective, as I explained in my statement, that helping Norway also has the effect of helping fewer people out there – even if we think we should do both.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1959	Until now, Norway has actually assumed a greater responsibility for accepting, for example: single mothers with many children, older refugees or disabled quota refugees. My question to the Council of State is, when you want to change your practice, does that mean that you go beyond taking this particular responsibility? Do you want to pick out quota refugees who know English and who are in working age? Is what you see, a continuation of today's practice, or are you going to change it? I don't think I found that out from the Council's answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1966	As the questioner says, a selection is being made today. We are working on new criteria, on which we cooperate with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Those criteria are not clear. When they are ready, the representative shall receive an appropriate answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1971	The government has agreed to receive 1000 quota refugees from Syria, but unlike the red-green government budget proposal for 2014, the government of Solberg halves the receipt of other quota refugees from 1000 to 500. It is known that the number of refugees has not fallen into other parts of the world either. What are the refugee groups that will now have their ability to come to Norway, as a result of the policies of the Solberg government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1978	We have an additional quota of 500, which is earmarked for Syrian refugees, as well as 500 from the ordinary quota, which is now also earmarked according to what the Storting has decided. Of course, it is not possible for me to stand on Stortinget’s pulpit and tell which people are not allowed to come to Norway. The selection criteria that apply to the other group are still the same as under the previous government – even though we, as I was in my previous answer, are working on changing the criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1985	The situation in neighbouring countries and in the refugee camps around Syria is disastrous. It's a humanitarian crisis, and it's a very unstable political situation in the whole area. It is exactly as it was during the Kosovo war, when the refugees were in Albania, Macedonia and Greece and the countries around. So the council says he can't support SV's proposals because there's no realism in it. But the UNHCR — that is, the UN Commissioner for Refugees — and the refugee aid in Norway and other organisations on the ground in the camps say that there is no realism in the fact that rich countries do not take out more refugees. Does the Council of State think that UNHCR and the Refugee Aid are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e1992	I'm not quite sure if I understood that there's no realism in rich countries taking out more refugees. It will be up to each country to decide how many refugees they want to receive, so I'm not sure if I understood that question. But I have to say that I appreciate the genuine commitment of the representative Karin Andersen to the difficult situation that the neighbourhoods of Syria experience, and that many acids that remain in Syria experience. That's why I think it's important that we focus on two things in particular. One is to help in the neighbourhood with what we can help with – where we help far more per cent than what we do in Norway – while at the same time taking responsibility for accepting refugees from Syria according to what the Storing has set out on quota, and that is up to 1000. It's also the maximum number of quota refugees from Syria ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2000	Compared to the need there, it is minimal. But the question is whether it is the reality on the ground in the refugee camps that is going to play a role, or whether it is our situation in rich Norway and our problems to balance this. When these organizations and the UN High Commissioner say that it is necessary for rich countries to relieve themselves of taking refugees out of the area, the argument that the Council of State has that we should spend the money where it is most effective. We have to do both. Because the situation is so disastrous in these camps, we have to help both there and also make sure that someone is taken out that could be somewhere else, to relieve the serious problems, for example. the health area, which is in the refugee camps.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2005	I agree that we should do both, and that is what I believe this government is doing, under the authority of Stortinget. We are accepting 1000 quota refugees from Syria this year, which is more than what the government of Karin Andersen did in 2011, 2012 and 2013. So I think it's a little strange that we're now going to be accused of not doing enough when we do more than what the government representative Andersen's party was part of, did in those years that also the refugee disaster in Syria and the neighbourhoods were very big. The representative Andersen also asks if there is a situation on the ground or the situation in our country that will determine how many we are taking in. I think you have to think about both. It is not that we can solve the world’s refugee problems by allowing all refugees to come to Norway, and therefore it is important that there is a realism in terms of the contribution Norway can make, both outside and by accepting refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2012	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2015	I think this is a sad debate. If the red-green government didn't do enough, there's no excuse not to do more now. We increased the number, and the refugee disaster increases every day that goes. It is exactly the same as it was around the Kosovo war when the refugee disaster was at the worst there. Then we took 6,000 extras. You're counting all the time on the cost. It costs too much, and we're going to wait for the budget. We are currently running and dealing with a budget in Stortinget: we are dealing with the revised national budget. It would have been quite possible to do this. Instead, I find that the majority once again prioritises cheaper tax-free spirits and boat engines. Yes, it is true that I am getting quite engaged in these matters, because this is about something of the worst that is happening in the world around us now, and we have the opportunity to receive more than 1,000. I don't think anyone with their heart can say that is not possible in Norway today. If the government now finds out that they can accept more, they should receive all possible support from SV for it. Because that's possible – if we want to. If we compare with the situation in those countries that are actually accepting more refugees now, there are two different worlds – two completely different worlds. Norway, the richest country in the world, should be part of some sort of European championship: No, the Swedes have received 100 more than us. We have the opportunity to receive more. We should do it -- because the High Commissioner asks us to do it, because the Refugee Aid asks us to do it, and because it is necessary to do both. I have to say I am sorry for this debate we have here now, and I had really hoped that it would have been possible to have a majority for this proposal – precisely because we have not set the quota higher either. Because in a similar emergency situation, where there were actually fewer refugees who needed help, the Stortinge was able to say yes to 6,000. Then it was just the Progress Party who said no. Then there was a Right who saw that it was necessary to assist with both parts, precisely because the disastrous situation inside the refugee camps needs to be remedied, and it needs to be remedied here and now. I understand that this proposal will now be put to the vote. I don't have much expectations about what the government comes back to, but they will get all the support and support for it if they choose to receive more – and also help in the neighbourhoods, because it is also absolutely necessary. And there is, as the representative Inge Wohnning said when we debated this in 1999, no contradiction between this. You have to do both parts in such serious situations as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2030	The representative of Mazyar Keshvari has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2033	I agree with Mr Andersen that this debate has been somewhat sad, although the main points here have been good from all parties. Some reason why this debate has become a little sad is precisely the type of use of words and putting the SV representative puts it in – that the government and the majority have prioritised more and cheaper spirits rather than helping people in need. That's not right at all. Norway has contributed 1.3 billion. kr since 2011, and the Council of State was in charge of some of what I also mentioned, namely that accepting and settling 1000 Syrian refugees is intended to cost about 155 million. kr per year. For the same sum, we can help 26,000 refugees in camps in the region, or 13,000 refugees outside the camps. It goes without saying that when we have limited resources, including in Norway, we need to prioritise so that we can help as many people as possible who are affected by this disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2040	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2043	If this debate is to end with the sadness of us sitting in this room, I give up. This is about refugees from war, and it is a reality that the United Nations has asked us to take refugees from the camps, who are overcrowded. It's not about setting up these calculations that calculates that it's cheaper to do it there, and that we can help more, because it's not possible – it's full there. We have to do something else as well. These calculations of what the government has prioritised are real. This can be read in the revised national budget. If it had been the will to give priority to the refugees in front of cheaper tax-free spirits, we would have nearly 100 million dollars. kr at disposal for this purpose. That, I think, would have earned the Storting more honor than what is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2050	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2065	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2074	The Municipal and Management Committee has examined a proposal by the Landfill Representatives Audun Lysbakken and Karin Andersen on the immediate stoppage of broadcasts of long-term asylum children pending new legislation. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation on this matter. Relations around asylum-seekers are an important debate. Everyone agrees that the children are innocent parties, and that it is important to take into account their situation, but there is disagreement about how this can best be done. On 28 February this year, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party concluded an agreement which includes, inter alia, the following: a permanent regime for asylum seekers and a one-off solution. The one-off solution has now been consulted and has been notified to enter into force on 1 July 2014. The permanent system, which is designed to ensure greater emphasis on the situation of children, is now in the process of being consulted, and it is pending these changes that proposers wish to put all issues with children at risk. The proposers point out that this was done in 2006 pending a new legislation. I would like to further explain the majority's position on this matter. The majority are pleased that the temporary scheme will enter into force in a few weeks and that all asylum seekers who have been in Norway for more than three years will have their case dealt with individually and that the decision will now be justified on a child-care basis. The majority will also stress the importance of the implementation of the permanent system as soon as possible, so that the child’s situation becomes more weighty in the processing of asylum applications. Children are innocent parties to these cases, and it is important that Norway provides for a fair treatment of their child-care matters and that this is both the one-off and permanent arrangements to facilitate. The majority do not support the proposal to put all matters at risk. For the Christian People's Party, a fair trial that emphasizes the child's situation is very important, and we are therefore pleased with the achievements we have received at this point in the asylum agreement concluded between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. We have been fighting for a long time for a regulatory change and are pleased that we have received that decisions must be child-friendly, and that for example. the age of the child, the need for stability and continuity, the length of stay in Norway, health, friends and the state of care in case of return should now be taken into account. We should like to see that we got through more, and that this would result in more children than those who might seem to be staying in Norway. At the same time, we are very pleased with all children who, on the basis of either the one-off solution or the permanent scheme, are now getting their case assessed on the basis of child-care considerations and are thus able to stay in Norway. For the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely central that immigration-regulating considerations should not go ahead of what is best for the child, and that all rejections that are now made due to immigration-regulating considerations, in that case also have to be child-skillable. This is an important change which will lead to the need to balance issues in which children are involved and to provide detailed justifications demonstrating that a decision is child-reliable. We in the Christian People's Party are very impatient to put in place the changes, so that all asylum-seekers in Norway receive a fair and child-friendly treatment of their application.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2095	I have from this pulpit and in several other contexts pointed out the importance of treating people who are on the run and asking for protection. Our nation has a long tradition of being a safe haven for people who are persecuted, and this is important for the Progress Party to continue in government as well. Giving protection to people who need it in an emergency, people who are at risk of losing their lives or being subjected to torture and other abuses, is a very important thing for us in government. But it is also very important for us to follow the rules of the game. People who come to Norway and ask for protection will be taken seriously, they will have to deal with their affairs properly and properly, but they must also respect the rules of the game that are in a free, democratic society like Norwegian. Once you have received a rejection of your application, once you have had your case assessed in accordance with the criteria, the law and the legislation laid down by the Stortinget, you must also respect that rejection and leave the country, as required by law. That is why we in the Progress Party do not support the Socialist Left proposal today. We believe that the Socialist Left Party unfortunately continues what they were doing in government, namely giving false hopes to people who have been here illegally and who do not have the right to stay in Norway. This also goes a little bit into what we were in the previous debate, namely that Norway is a country with five million inhabitants with limited resources, and then I think not only of money, but of real resources, like how many we can give real help to and contribute to becoming a positive part of Norwegian society. In such a situation, it would be very unfortunate to have many, many thousands of people who do not need protection, living on asylum recipients, living outside asylum recipients, when we know that the need to give people protection in today's world is very great. Then we are not in the Progress Party either on the assumptions made by the proposers in this matter. We do not agree that many families with children now have a legitimate expectation of staying in Norway, because neither the one-off or the permanent scheme for long-term children is intended to cover all families with a certain period of residence. After all, there is no amnesty for those who have broken Norwegian legislation and stayed in Norway for a long time, which has been adopted in Stortinget. We also find it sad that the proposers, who have pursued a policy that has led many of these families of children to find themselves in this situation, are proposing that they should have false hopes and perhaps be here longer than necessary. We believe it is important to enforce Norwegian law until you change it. Until new changes are made to the law, the laws adopted by the national parliament must be handled at all times. It applies in this area as in all other areas. But what has been important to us in the Progress Party, both in negotiations with our partners and in the government platform, is to prevent children and families in particular from coming into a situation where unfortunately many are today, namely that they are being refused their applications. They may be in Norway in two–three–four–five–six–seven–eight–nine years before being sent out of Norway. This is not lucky for the individual family, this affects the individual children. For this reason, we have decided, and have been through, to transform the entire reception structure – with the reception of those who have been given residence in Norway, where the inclusion and integration work starts from day one, and the return reception of those who have been refused their applications – so that they are returned to their country of origin as quickly as possible and can continue their lives there, rather than living in limbo here in Norway, as they did under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2110	Children on the run are a vulnerable group – especially vulnerable are the long-term children. This group has therefore been an ever-increasing theme in the treatment of asylum and immigration policy by the Storting. The representative proposal from SVs Karin Andersen and Audun Lysbakken can well be justified and understood from the great expectations created by the cooperation platform to the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. False hopes are not the SV that have created. The government parties and supporting parties were very successful even when the cooperation agreement on asylum policy was presented. The impression was created that there were reasons for major changes in the policy pursued by the red-green government. Today, we still don't know what the government's and the supporting parties' policies will actually produce. However, we have understood that the major changes that were proposed become rather minor changes when they are to be launched into life. In Report. St. 27 for 2011–2012, which was presented in the spring of 2012, was particularly balanced between the emphasis on the child’s best and the emphasis on immigration-regulating considerations that stood at the heart. The majority of cases joined in the processing of the notification to a central formulation in the notification: ‘In certain contexts, the best interests of the child will be so burdensome that there will be no access to decisive emphasis on immigration regulatory considerations’.» Immigration regulatory considerations would remain an element, but a less prominent element in the treatment of children’s residence permits than what was developed as a practice in UNE’s handling of complaints. In order to ensure that there was a change in practice back to what was the intention of the Storting when it gave its leadership in 2007, the government stated that UDI and UNE should explain their practice in cases with long-term children one year after the notification, i.e. spring 2013. In the spring of 2013, it became clear that several long-term children had stayed. So there would have been a change in practice. There we are today, soon a big session after the new government took over, and new political leadership was put in place for the review of the asylum policy for long-term children. Now we note that the expectations of major policy changes are being dampened by the government and its supporting parties on the Stortinget. It is said that allowing their affairs to be suspended until new regulations are in place could lead to false hopes for many families. It's highly uncertain how many of these families will actually be. From the centre party we understand the arguments behind SV's proposal. There were great hopes when the cooperation agreement on asylum policy was presented. But we also record that the Minister of Justice and not least his party traps have helped to reduce these hopes. The centre party therefore doesn't think it's wise to contribute to creating even more false hopes of a policy change that probably never comes. It is critical that this matter has been allowed to go so long without the government's announced changes in regulations being in place. Only a short time after the SV’s proposal for a representative was submitted, the proposal for a new policy in this area was sent to the hearing. It is too late, in relation to the high expectations created at the time the cooperation platform was presented, and it is perhaps the most critical when dealing with asylum policy in relation to the long-term children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2137	It could have been close to commenting on the previous representative on what was said about aid lots. There is no doubt that the role of the Left in this has always been that we have focused a lot on this. This is not what has been at the top of the Central Party agenda. We've been thinking for a long time that this is one of the important areas, and I want to pay tribute for this being raised as a debate, and as a proposal by SV. The adoption of asylum children has been one of our main concerns in foreign policy for several years, and the Left is pleased that we have reached an asylum agreement with the Right, the Progressive Party and the Christian People's Party, in order to make an impact on changes in the rules that ensure a stronger emphasis on the situation of asylum-seekers. The asylum agreement provides for a consensus on permanent arrangements ensuring greater emphasis, including in the situation of temporary arrangements for long-term asylum children. We have been committed to having clear legislation, the competence of children's professions, and to giving concrete consideration to the child's concerns. We were therefore also pleased that we have had an impact on the asylum agreement, with the announced regulatory changes that have now been sent to the hearing. When we finally get a decision that ensures this, we will also be satisfied with it. It is, to comment on it, that the child’s situation needs to be more focused. We in the left are always impatient about this and are clear about it. You can choose to look back all the time, as more people have been around before me here today. I don't think we're going to solve anything by looking back all the time. I think we also have to look forward and not necessarily use the argument about looking backwards to not want to do anything, for children in flight – there are very few kids that can get the job done. This is also about dignity, and if we're not interested in doing anything about it, we can just keep looking back. I don't think that solves the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2154	Children in refugees need better protection than they do today. It has been working on it for several years – also in the previous government, where it was not particularly secret that there were different opinions about this. SV has always thought that we need to take greater care of children, both because it is right to do so and because we have obligations in particular. The Children's Convention. I was earlier today at a conference with the Red Cross and a number of other participants who are legally educated in this area, and they believe that Norway has not behaved properly to the Children's Convention for several years, and that our handling of these matters is not good enough. Immigrant policy considerations are given too much weight. I have seen a lot of rejection of applications for asylum, and they say that if you want to take the children into account, it is best for the children to stay in Norway. However, immigration policy considerations advocate their exit. It is the weighting that has been distorted and that we tried to work with in government. We put in place a system and put matters at rest, just so you wouldn't send people out of the country while you had rule changes going on. I am disappointed that this has taken a long time in government. I am also disappointed that this has taken a long time in the committee, for this is a matter we should deal with at once. We should have said that these matters should be at stake – also because, as the representative Mr. Greni said, there were quite unreasonable expectations about what this was about, after the agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left. But this also applies to the realities: if you want to change the rules, and that is something, you should wait until those who are covered by them can get their cases dealt with according to the new rules, as we did in 2006. It's nothing but fair and reasonable to do it that way. There is a lot of talk about creating expectations etc., but in this case the SV has not created them. It has created the government parties and the cooperation parties. But the expectation of Norway must at least be that we will deal with these matters better than we have now. It's a request on the SV side that you do it. I see on the Internet that the new regulations are probably right around the corner, but we are also waiting for the changes that will be in the permanent arrangement. Changes have been promised that these matters will be dealt with differently from today, and that is the expectation that has been created, and that the Stortinget and the government should have responded to by saying that these families may put their cases at risk until the new legislation is in place. Then we could discuss what it is that is the new legislation and the provisions of it. I have no opportunity to go into it so much, but what has been sent to the hearing at least, is among other things. the need to come from countries with a return agreement with Norway, and a number of such requirements that have nothing to do with protection needs. I react strongly to it, because there are things that the asylum seeker has no opportunity to influence, and that have nothing to do with protection needs. There must be a need for protection, a link with Norway and the best interests of the children to decide on these matters. Unfortunately, I do not have too much expectations of these rules coming. There is a need to go through this very thoroughly – the whole system – also because the legal certainty of the system is not good enough, as the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice of the Progress Party agreed on the panel debate I just came from, which was gone on the Red Cross. This means that there are several of these cases that would probably have had a different outcome if one had had stronger guarantees of legal security, and one, for example. had had several things in full mention, which was Stortinget's intention when setting up the UN system. I am also waiting for the government and the majority to say that they will make a change in the second reading of these matters in total. I look forward to it and hope that we will then get arrangements that are more legal certainty, but also that in practice we actually comply with the Children's Convention, and then several of these families will have to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2175	Does the representative address SV's proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2178	Yes, I mention the proposal that is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2183	The representative, Karin Andersen, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2186	Let me first thank the rapporteur for the constructive work and the Committee for Good Cooperation. I want to begin by saying that in this field now there is an agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. There is a demanding political field in the range between the four parties. There were many who said it was impossible to get there. So we have done so, and this proposal affects one of those points of agreement. We are now working on implementing the proposal for a one-off solution for long-term children. The proposal has been consulted and is now being finalised in the Ministry with a view to its entry into force on 1 July of this year. The proposal on permanent arrangements is currently being consulted. I am concerned that these regulatory changes also come into place quickly. With regard to the proposal for a representative to be discussed, which asks questions about rescuing in all cases where children have been in Norway for three years or more, I would like to be very clear that I do not agree with the proposers in the claim that families with children now have a legitimate expectation of staying in Norway. Neither the one-off or the permanent scheme for long-term children is intended to cover all families with a certain length of residence in Norway. It must be assessed on a case-by-case basis and within the criteria now adopted in the new legislation. Nor has it been said that this should include all children who have a certain period of residence in Norway. It is therefore not correct, as the proposers claim, that children’s families with more than three years of residence in Norway have a legitimate expectation of staying in the country, despite the fact that they have previously been refused their application. In addition, it is difficult to say something concrete about who would be able to obtain a residence permit. I notice that the minority of the committee refers to the fact that it is estimated that approx. 130 children will be covered by the one-off solution, but I would like to stress that these are figures based on uncertain estimates and a number of reservations. I would also like to remind you of the clear starting points we have in Norwegian asylum policy today. Refusal of the application for asylum implies an obligation on the part of the person or persons returning to their country of origin. If, despite this, the foreigner chooses to remain in Norway without a legal stay, the police can, of course, transport him out of the country by coercion. This applies to both adults and minors. I also note that the minority of the Committee considers the one-off terms of the return agreement to be discriminatory against families with children and that this is a matter which the families themselves cannot affect. To this I would point out that the one-off solution has not been intended as a general amnesty for all children with a certain period of residence in Norway. The conditions for whom the subject is covered are a political question, and it is evident from the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party. I would also like to point out that today's legislation is already opening up to grant a residence permit on a humanitarian basis, for example. as a result of children’s relationship with Norway. This, of course, is a piece of legislation that will continue to apply. I believe that it will really create false hopes for children and their families if we are today required to remain silent in all matters where the total length of residence is over three years, when the result will nevertheless be that very many of these will have to leave the country. As mentioned at the outset, however, I am concerned that they announced the changes to the regulations that the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties agree on, will come into place quickly. This proposal will, of course, be in place as early as 1 July – probably, and it will not have any particular effect if SV’s proposals are adopted today anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2207	An attempt was made to create the impression that the cooperation agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party was a breakthrough for a more humane asylum policy. In particular, the aid lots were very clear on that. In response to the Council of State to the Municipal and Administrative Committee, however, the Council of State warns against creating expectations that long-term children and their families can now be accommodated in Norway as a result of the notified regulatory changes concerning long-term children. Does the Council of State believe it is right that the Progress Party and the government they are part of provide for the liberalisation of the asylum policy for long-term children and their families, or is the fact that the differences are very small in relation to the policies that have been pursued up to now?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2214	I think the premise for the question is a little wrong, because when the asylum agreement was negotiated between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Progressive Party and the Right, the agreement was based on the fact that in some areas there would be some liberalisation and that in other areas there would be some tightening. The reason is the political tension between the four parties in this political field, just as we heard the representative Karin Andersen express the same tension in the Tripartite Government as the Central Party was part of. In some areas, there will be restrictions on past practice. In other areas, inter alia: The area we're discussing today, it's going to be a little bit of an embellishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2219	Yes, it is true that I know a little about the political tension, but it was in the political tension that we managed to negotiate an agreement to put matters at risk for long-term children when you had rule changes going on. Putting these matters at risk has nothing to do with a general amnesty, either now or then. It has to do with making matters have a different outcome with a new regulatory framework. I expect the Council of State to believe that the new legislation may have a slightly different impact on some of these issues, and that this is part of liberalisation, i.e. that more people can join in the new legislation. That's why it would have been right to put these matters to rest. Can the Minister of Justice now guarantee that none of those who have been sent out in the meantime, or who will be sent out in the meantime, before being dealt with under the new legislation, could have a new system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2226	I do not deal with asylum cases on the floor of the Stortinget, which Mr Andersen is aware of from the previous line changes on various aspects of this field. But it is the case that a legislation that is in force until a new legislation is adopted. We have to deal with that. I think it would be a very wrong signal to put that sort of thing at risk when we know that very many of those who will still have to leave the country because they don't meet the requirements of the one-time solution will have to leave the country later. I had actually expected that SV had made a small retreat, especially when they saw that this legislation, which is also covered by SV, would probably come into force by 1 July.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2231	No, this proposal was made a long time ago, and it has taken an unreasonable amount of time to deal with it in the Storting, so that is why this should be done. But if I can ask the Council of State for the legislation to come into force. There is the condition to be considered that the refugee has no influence whatsoever. If Norway has a return agreement, for example, and if it is signed before or after he comes to the country, it has a shame to report nothing with a need for protection – or with the circumstances in which the individual asylum seeker, or the family, can do something from or to. Can the Council of States explain why such a criterion is chosen that is completely irrelevant to what is at the heart of the issue, namely to be able to better discharge the obligations of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to ensure that more people in need of protection actually become?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2238	I think that's a very interesting question. If the need for protection is to be taken into account, none of these will satisfy the requirements, because these are persons who have been denied their application. There is no need for protection to which Andersen's representative refers, and then I think the whole premise of the question is completely wrong. This is an exception for people who do not have the right to stay, because there is no need for protection, but stay – and there is no doubt that there is a great political victory for the Left and Christian People's Party – for the sake of the child. So if you're going to take into account the premises that Andersen's representative is doing in his questioning, none of these children would be allowed to stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2243	This isn't right, because it's actually part of these that have protection needs. You can see that in some of the cases that are raised again, and in some of those that you can get to a court of law for different reasons, it is actually quite often that the administration has done wrong. I understand that the Council of State believes that the administration can never make mistakes, but the other thing is: why set conditions that are such that families have no opportunity at all to influence them, or that they have nothing to do with the Convention on the Rights of the Child or with Norway or with assessments related to the child’s needs? Because that's what we're talking about right now – related to the child's needs. Is it true that Norway has concluded a return agreement, or was it concluded before or after the asylum sought, has nothing to do with Norway’s obligation to comply with the Children’s Convention or with the child’s need to be in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2250	I then find that Andersen and I agree that the children covered by the one-off solution are initially not entitled to protection because they have received a negative decision. Unlike Andersen, I have great confidence in the work done in the administration in these areas. There they have significantly better insight into the individual matters than the representative Andersen and I have. That's why it's important that we rebuild that system. Then, because of a variety of circumstances, these children have remained in Norway for a long time — often because their parents choose not to leave. They choose not to contribute to the return. So the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right have agreed on an agreement that allows the children who have come into such an unscrupulous situation, to a greater extent than today, to be given the right to stay. It should be praised by the representative Andersen, because the Christian People's Party and the Left have achieved something that Andersen did not get in his own government – instead, a number of other impressions are created. But it is clear that the restrictions that Andersen refers to are also the result of the political negotiations. There are some political brake blocks, so that not everyone will be covered by this scheme, because none of them initially have a requirement for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2257	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2262	In the debate I seem to hear some undertones that it was wrong to create hope. In that case, I wonder how to conduct politics, if we are not allowed to have an opinion and run for it. I am almost tempted to ask some of the representatives here if they think it was wrong that we got to the solution for these children. That's so bad it can actually be interpreted. Because we inherited a story. We entered a matter area where nothing had been done, and we had to get hold of it. So I'm glad I've been contributing to the one-time solution – for children are independent individuals, children are no lawbreakers, children are completely innocent. At the same time as we stick to it, we must respect the rules of the game – yes – and rejections must lead to departures. But it is in this balance that human politics can enter, and the Christian People's Party and the Left want to contribute to it being drawn in that direction. That is why this remains to be balanced, and we will follow this matter carefully in the future – with the regulations that are coming. But let it be clear that the Christian People's Party supports the measures to bring about a more effective chain of asylum and immigration policy, so that we do not get such things in the way we have seen. That means that we want a faster procedure in accordance with international conventions, we want a faster settlement, so that people get involved, we want a clarification of responsibilities and obligations, so that those who come, become part of society as soon as possible. But in the middle of this, we insist that the child's self-esteem has an invaluable weight, and we want to emphasise it. And in fact, I want people to have hopes – just for the Christian People's Party and the government – in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2272	Yeah, that's good it's going to be rule changes. But it's not right, as the representative Tuskedal says, that nothing had been done in advance. There was a situation in which we put things in rest, and we got to changes that were far larger than this under the red-green government. Then we put matters on hold, just to get the legislation in place. So this isn't a criticism that you've done as well as you've been with partners who don't want to. But I just have to admit that I was disappointed when the case rapporteur from the Christian People's Party did not ensure that this proposal was at least dealt with quickly, so that we had clarified this earlier, because that is the method we have used before – just to ensure that families should not be sent out in the meantime, while getting better regulation in place. There are several of these cases that have been subsequently converted, when they have gone several rounds in the legal system, so it is more uncertain whether the decision is correct in all these cases. In Sweden and Denmark, where one has different and better legal security systems in the area of complaint handling, even more cases are converted in other instances than in Norway. Then I fully agree with the rapporteur that in these cases the children are completely innocent. These are our children, they've grown up here, they're Norwegian, just like my children and grandchildren. That's the situation. Then, as a country, we have responsibility for these children regardless of what their parents have done. There may be good reasons why people have not gone out, and there may be bad reasons why they haven't gone out – the point is that it's not the children's responsibility. But it is our responsibility to ensure that the interests of these children are taken care of. So I'm very happy that we're getting some changes in this area. They're not big. There are rules here that we're critical of, and we have to be allowed to, because that's why. There is a need here to look at a lot, both in terms of legal certainty throughout the field and in terms of the complaint handling system — and improvements are needed in that system. I repeat: Norway has joined the Children's Convention. We have now also included in the Constitution that the concern for children should be taken into account, and that is the concern for children – that is not only for Norwegian children, but we have a purpose to take into account also these matters relating to long-term children of asylum, because they are our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2285	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2299	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2308	The representatives of Skjelstad, Farstad, Nybø and Kjenseth, from the Left, have promoted a proposal for a representative where ‘The government is asked to submit a case for a plan for the distribution of State jobs and State competences across the country’. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. Representatives believe that the plan must have an ambition that at least 1000 jobs will be adopted by 2017 at the latest by Oslo. The proposers consider the head office of the State Agriculture Administration, the Norwegian Watercourse and Energy Directorate and the Emergency Communications Directorate to be particularly relevant for relocation. I am pleased to be able to refer to the Committee's agreement to the fundamental considerations and reasons for spreading state jobs in a better way than we have done so far. Then I have to add that the agreement does not go far enough to allow the proposal promoted by the representatives to be endorsed by a majority of the committee. I'm very sorry about the Center Party. I think we all agree that Oslo's role as capital does not mean that jobs linked to different state institutions and agencies must be located in this city. In fact, a very limited proportion of the state jobs in Oslo are directly linked to the capital function. For directorates and various supervisory and supervisory bodies, an arm's length distance from the government apparatus may be an advantage. The survey carried out by the proposers in the Stortingen Investigation Section shows that 29 pst. of the State staff are located in Oslo. There are more than twice as many as the city's share of the population in the country. Governments have had the relocation of State jobs from Oslo on the programme. Both the government Bondevik II and the government Stoltenberg II carried out the relocation of approx. 1 000 State jobs each. The paradox is that under the same governments there was a strong increase in the number of government jobs in Oslo. Decisions on the relocation of 2000 jobs were given considerable attention and strong reactions of both a positive and a negative nature, while the establishment of over 10000 new state jobs in Oslo in the same years was largely allowed to take place in silence. A year ago, we discussed the Landfill Communication on Regional and Regional Policy. In a note that was endorsed by all lots, it says: ‘Statistical service production must be further developed in a way that ensures, as far as possible, good access to government services in all parts of the country. The Committee supports the involvement of the localisation of State jobs in the establishment of professional professional environments, even outside the major press areas of the country.’.» So there are no new and revolutionary ideas for which the representatives of the Left make up the figures. That is why I am rather surprised that no more parties support the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, where we ‘ask the government to implement measures that ensure that total growth in jobs in existing state institutions and institutions takes place outside Oslo’. In particular, I must say that I am surprised that the Left does not support this proposal, which I regard as entirely in line with the intentions of the draft representative. On the part of the Centre Party, we are fully behind the intentions of the proposers, but we believe that the ambitions are too weak. In view of the strong increase in the number of government jobs in Oslo over the last few years, we believe that there is a need to take more weight than the relocation of 1 000 jobs. As an ambition, we will have a decision that 5,000 state jobs will be moved out of Oslo and into other parts of the country during the current metropolitan period. I notice that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party say in a note that ‘workplaces out of Oslo’ are not an end in themselves, but they share the goal of reducing the pressure in the Oslo region and ‘strengthening the professional environment and competence’ throughout the country. Now the whole point is that we should dampen the pressure on Oslo, and if we are to develop strong state professional and competence environments across the country, we must be willing to make the relocation of jobs from Oslo into a concrete instrument. The majority will aim, but withdraw from the funds. It's good to want the policy, but we're probably measuring what we're actually doing. The problem with the setting in this case is that there are many who want a good deal, but they will not do anything concrete. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Central Party has made, either alone or with others. I would also like to inform you that the Central Party will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of proposal No. 4, from the Left, and that we will vote in favour of the Committee's position on II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2346	The representative Heidi Greni has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2349	The proposal by the representatives of the representatives of the Left is an important and, in many ways, a proposal of principle. The Labour Party considers regional employment as an advantage in local and regional economic development and as an important contribution to strengthening and developing skills jobs outside the major cities. The working party is concerned that we see a stronger division of the Norwegian economy, where the oil and gas-related industry is strong, but where our traditional export activity is struggling with lower demand. There are also strong trends in a geographical division of Norwegian business, where we experience imbalances between the growth power of what we can call the South-West, and our traditional industrial businesses in the South-East, for example in counties such as Eastfold, Hedmark and Uppland. Active enterprise policy and a strong and clear commitment to the growth potential of the different regions will be crucial for one of the most important tasks we have on the Storting. It's about making arrangements so that we have a varied business and an export industry that can provide people with work and opportunities for their own income. The proposal we are discussing here today, on the distribution and placement of state jobs, is, in the view of the Workers' Party, part of the strategy to ensure a good and varied business life throughout the country. It is therefore gratifying that the majority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party, now agree that the government should ‘promote proposals for measures that ensure that new state activities are, as a general rule, left out of Oslo and build up under viable regions’. It would have been even more gratifying if the proposal of the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Workers' Party had received a majority, as I see it as a more clear and binding proposal in view of the problem itself. The availability of skilled jobs is crucial, not only to facilitate the development of existing enterprises, and the unbundling of new skilled jobs will also be essential for the development of attractive and good living environments, which could in turn attract new activities in District Norway. At that time, it is not good district policy to decide to lay down State jobs, as the majority of the population chose to do in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2364	Competence jobs are important, and they are important in all parts of the country. The dissemination of competences and the professional environment is important for the exploitation of resources and for the strengthening of growth and value-added across the country. Government workplaces play an important role in this. In this case, it is pointed out that since 2000 the most extensive relocation of state jobs took place under the Bondevik II government. In the period 2003–2006, seven state directorates/supervisory move out of Oslo. Moving these levels resulted in a shift of about 900 years' work. In addition, the House Bank moved from Oslo to Drammen in September 2005. The movement includes 135 added. All in all, about 1 000 jobs were moved out of Oslo under the Bondevik II government. During the period 2006–2011, the number of state doctors increased by 14 500. Growth has been particularly marked by small, step-by-step extensions of existing activities. Growth has been unevenly distributed among different types of labour market regions, and most of the growth has come where it has been the most recent. In the Oslo region, for example, far more nationalisations per capita than elsewhere in the country. Experience from the past relocation of state jobs and the creation of new state jobs outside the Oslo region is positive, and the government must continue this where there are good alternatives. It is important both to reduce the pressure on the Oslo region and to strengthen the professional environment and the professional environment throughout the country. The most important approach to the development of previous years is to avoid reorganisation or growth in larger etatars leading to growth in the Oslo region, if there are good alternatives. The workplace out of Oslo is not a goal in itself. Nor is it likely to have a target value for how many jobs can be moved out of Oslo. Localisation must be based on concrete assessments, and this is also the government's policy. It is important to bear in mind that the last time it was a civil government, it was the largest relocation of state jobs, and it is also gratifying to see that this has been successful. I am pleased that a clear majority support the proposal that the Storting asks the government to develop a strategy for localising state jobs that will reduce the pressure in the Oslo region and strengthen the professional environment and competences throughout the country. When it comes to the second plural proposal, this is in line with current practice, and that is also why the Right does not support this proposal. I would recommend the part of the setting on which the Right is included in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2381	The public is a major employer at both municipal and state level. Securing skilled labour is important to ensure a good level of public services for our citizens. Therefore, the Progress Party is pleased that the Sundvolden Declaration clearly states that the government should further develop the public sector and make it an attractive job for skilled workers. This is the right focus for the government. This proposal for a representative is about moving these environments of competence. Proposal providers want to ask the government to create a plan to allocate at least 1000 jobs from Oslo in the period 2014-2017. The progress game would like us to not make such a decision. We will also go against the plural setting where the Stortinget is invited to decide that the main part of the new state enterprise is to be left outside Oslo. It is today, as the representative Bjørn Lødemel just did well, current practice, and we do not see the need to take a decision to confirm what is current government practice when new businesses are to be established. The setting also focuses on creating viable regions, and that rural policies must be geared towards the creation of skilled jobs in the districts. We in the Progress Party believe that busses in District Norway and regions cannot be secured primarily through public workplaces and a series of public appeals. The most important thing to actually ensure growth-intensive regions throughout the country is to have a business that is able to take care of and create new jobs. It works best by building infrastructure, either talking about communication, good roads in the districts, or talking about having educational institutions that create competence and knowledge in the districts. It is far more important than having an exaggerated confidence that we can make decisions here and thus strengthen our territory. It is far more important to make provision for the regions themselves to create the jobs they need. That's why I think local politicians should rather focus on facilitating business, creating yes-communities and creating a culture to be closed down than fighting for the introduction of state jobs. Finally, I also react a little to the focus being that Oslo has so much of state jobs. It is natural when Oslo is the capital that a number of government jobs are also located in the capital. I think it's a little strange that you should be surprised that the capital has some capital functions and has a number of government jobs. It's not natural for us to agree to say that moving jobs away from our capital is an end in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2392	The Christian People's Party will be a driving force for state jobs to be moved out – and created – of the district. Cities and agglomerations must be engines for regional development, and a commitment to them is therefore very important. Christian People's Party therefore supports proposals that could lead to more state-owned businesses moving into districts, and that state-owned businesses and companies should lead as a good example by locating management functions and head offices in District Norway. District-Norway produces large values, which is documented by local authorities. We are proud to visit high-level environments throughout the country. We need to stimulate this further. The proposal from the Left is therefore to strengthen something that we know works. It is an explicit objective that there should be a spread of residence in Norway and that this is a value for the country. In order to ensure a country-wide settlement, jobs throughout the country are also crucial. Many municipalities have growth in the population. High immigration explains part of the growth. However, there are marked differences in the housing structure between north and south. Three-quarters of its population live in metropolitan regions and medium-sized urban regions. This proportion has gradually increased over the last decades, and centralisation has proven to be strongest in periods of economic upturn. It makes sense to look for tools that can reduce the unfortunate aspects of urbanisation and hence centralisation. Moving to central areas is primarily explained by a larger education and cultural offer, varied labour markets and high income levels in urban regions, but mobility studies also show that factors such as service availability, proximity and the housing environment have become increasingly important for people’s choice of place of residence. In the last 15 years, employment has increased in all parts of the country, with a slight decline in the most dispersed regions. Of the region types, employment growth has been strongest in metropolitan regions, and the South and Western regions are the regions with the highest growth rates. We are now finding advanced and viable business environments in all parts of the country. These regions mainly have a business related to fisheries, maritime industries, oil and gas or industry, such as: the directorates, with the Oil Directorate in Stavanger, the Norwegian Polar Institute in Tromsø or the Maritime Directorate in Haugesund. It is therefore time again to spread government jobs and institutions to different regions. In this way, we can strengthen regional business clusters and thus further develop skills. At that time, value creation takes place in an interaction with professional environments in regions where it is good to live – a district policy that benefits the whole country, both in the short and long term. It's clear it must be a goal to move state jobs from Oslo, but it's not like it's wise to have a measure. We could rather have a target, perhaps, that three out of four state agencies should be located outside Oslo, or a target that new state jobs should be located outside Oslo, without necessarily setting the number to 1000 or 5,000. I want a strategy ahead of a message. I justify this because it may seem that with the practices of the previous government related to big business messages, it was often that the messages became many words and good intentions. It's of course a pick today that the Storting won't help define the content of an exact strategy, and that a message might also give the Storting greater influence, but nothing stands in the way that we can make recordings and signals. I assume and am convinced that the Council of State will accept all the good input with thanks.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2418	It is gratifying that there is such a great deal of support for the content of the proposal. We also see that there are more inputs to this. I also notice that the representative, Mr. Grenis, is now anxious after she has left the government offices. It is also gratifying that we have someone who will cheer us up for just getting to this, which they have not been able to do to such an extent with the previous government. We believe it has a self-value to spread government jobs to the different regions in order to generate growth and also larger professional bodies. There is no doubt that many of them will also lead to a greater possibility of recruiting. We believe that through strong regions and the relocation of state jobs, these skills will become even clearer and even better compared to recruitment. We just think that through a balance here you can generate growth in other parts of the country and not just in the capital area. This isn't a fight against Oslo, to be precise about it. Oslo has its capital functions in any case, and we believe that just through balanced growth there will also be opportunities for far more people to be able to participate in it, because just through decentralised power and authority, a also creates a distance between decision-makers, professional bodies and underlying agencies. This is also important to build up precisely through these professional environments for example. to obtain the existing competence in the country. The left believes that one should go to work concretely, pointing out, among other things. in our position at the State Agriculture Administration, NVE and not least the Emergency Communications Directorate, which may be the relevant businesses one could move out. Furthermore, we believe it is natural to be able to look at supervision and representations that should be located outside the capital area itself. Work on the relocation of State jobs has not been a strong priority under the Stoltenberg Government. Once we have agreed that the government will come back to the Storting with action and strategy, we look forward with pleasure to the opportunity and opportunity we have to debate these issues wider in a fact-based context on a later occasion. We've also been satisfied with that, and just by adding new state businesses outside Oslo, and creating a majority for that, we think this will also be a growth in competence in other parts of the country. This, in my opinion, is, of course, closely linked to the fact that one looks at the regionalised Norway. In order to have robust enough regions, to use the government's own words, we also believe that this possibility will now be present. This could also be seen in addition to the role of county councils in this, precisely for the relocation of the external state bodies then organised under the State. Just through that balance, I think there's an opportunity to create a greater growth force, and one will also be involved in relieving the pressures in the capital area. I'm a little surprised by the representative Njåstad, who just focuses on business. We do that from the left too – absolutely. But we have to have more than just that within the regions. We think just by not centralizing everything into one region, vulnerability will not be so great either. I understand that the representative Njåstad may not have these thoughts. We from the left believe that just by having more thoughts in our head at the same time, we also believe that we are more successful with this. Then it's clear that there's a difference between us and the Progress Party, who primarily want a two-part level. We want to have an intermediate level. We think that just this will make the growth force even bigger. Business will also flourish in the regions. It's just part of this proposal. I will also join the Committee's position on I and II. I choose not to promote our proposal on a target of 1000, because I see these are good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2441	Was it correctly understood that the Left's proposal was not taken up?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2445	Yes!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2450	For SV, it is important that we have good development throughout the country and in our capital. We are concerned that both state activities and other activities should be possible in all parts of the country. I note that representatives of the support parties to the government are very confident to the government that they will achieve more in decentralisation than the red-green government did. I have to allow myself to be a little daring for that. Especially because I have read the government statement, where they have agreed to strengthen the growth force where it is, i.e. to strengthen those who are strong from before. Then you have to weaken those who are weak. I have also recorded the changes that have been made in the first budget that the government has put forward, with strong cuts in regional policy instruments, the warning of distortion of local economy and local government economy, which is not exactly building up under the increased growth power of the whole country, but which, on the contrary, does the same thing as the government otherwise warns, namely to strengthen the growth power where it is. There is a need to have both strategies and, preferably, a key message on how to localise state jobs and businesses across the country. That's SV for. We will also vote in favour of point II of the vote. I think that if you want to do this, you have to do it in practice when you distribute the big money, which makes the municipalities, for example. is able to facilitate exciting professional environments spread across the country, that local communities are diverse and that cities throughout the country have many job opportunities. It is good with yes-communities, as the representative Njåstad put it in place, but then I also think that the government has to change the proposal for the company tax scheme, because it has to go to the municipalities where there are jobs, while those who are trying to get jobs are not going to get any part of this money. Then there will hardly be any more jobs there by itself. So seeing how the country's workplaces can work in this is important. And it's important to locate everything that can be located outside Oslo outside Oslo, precisely because there are press problems, and because you need to have these engines to develop good jobs and professional environments in many places in the country. But the reason why SV does not vote in favour of proposal No. 2, it is said that the growth of existing state institutions will take place outside Oslo. It could be the University of Oslo, it could be the hospitals in Oslo, it could be the departments and it might well be some minister of modernization might find it possible to move to another place in the country. I'm not going to say no to that, but within the existing workplaces, this is probably not the big potential. The great potential is if you find activities to be located and that can be relocated in their entirety, or if there are new departments that can be created. It's probably easier to communicate now than it was a few years ago, and that would make this work in practice. I've said a little about what the government did in its first budget. I also have a very concrete example where the government was very disappointed, and it was at the establishment of the health archives on Tynset. There were 80 jobs, so to speak, completed. There was money in the budget, to a district in Norway where the competence for this exists, where there was a complete professional consensus that this was the best solution, and then the government chooses to draw it. This is a new function, which was fixed for a long time. Now there's also an impact assessment, a K2, and we're still waiting for the government. I had hoped that it had come into the revised national budget – it did not. This is one of the concrete test pieces that we can try out this government right now -- whether it's actually some will or whether this is just talk. This case is there, and it can be resolved now. It is important, professionally investigated, and it is a localization proposal that will contribute strongly to the creation of government jobs in parts of the country other than Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2467	I agree that this is an important debate, and I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus that we need to think about both the modernisation of the public sector and the development of viable regions with strong environments of competence. There are several issues raised in this debate, and let me just point to three of them. One relates to the concrete relocation of state jobs. The second relates to the creation of new state jobs — mainly outside Oslo. And then there is a third problem: structural changes in the state sector. Various governments have implemented measures to move jobs out of Oslo. The most extensive was carried out during the Bondevik II government. I believe these are issues that need to be considered on a case-by-case basis, and I do not think it appropriate to have a separate target for job relocation. As far as new jobs are concerned, I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus that it is important to build up under professional environments throughout the country. There is no doubt that the creation of State jobs and skills can have a positive impact on and ring-fenced effect on the creation of other jobs, including in the private sector. Also in the coming years, we will carry out structural changes in the state sector. It is then important to be aware of the creation of jobs and to ensure that strong regions throughout the country are built up. Distribution of government employment is one of many issues that the government is working on in the context of further development of the public sector. Modernisation and awareness of localisation choices enable all sectors to contribute to good local and regional labour markets. In line with the majority’s views, I would like to assess strategies for localising state jobs to reduce the pressure in the Oslo region, among others. in the case of measures ensuring that, as a general rule, new State activities are excluded from Oslo. An important instrument is the State guidelines to be used in setting up and deciding on issues with implications for the location of state jobs. I want to review today's guidelines with the aim of simplifying and clarifying investigation requirements, procedures and responsibilities. It is true, as has been stressed in the debate, that today's guidelines indicate that, as a general rule, job creation should take place outside Oslo. I will now review today's guidelines with a view to both simplifying and clarifying the investigation requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2482	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2485	In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states that State employment can be an important ‘tool for contributing to the strengthening of local and regional labour markets’. And then we're more people who are a little bit presumptuous about what that means, because we've already seen that it's in stark contrast to what the government actually does. One of the first things the government did was to centralize 139 district jobs in the Directorate of Economic Management, DFØ, and we have also seen a slight lack of willingness to implement the location decision at the health archive in Tynset. Therefore, my question is: is the centralisation of the DFØ a reference to what we can expect from the government's policy in this area in the future, or does the government have a clear ambition to maintain the state jobs located in the districts, while at the same time establishing new state activities outside Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2492	As I explained in my speech, this debate deals with various issues. One is to move out jobs, the other is the creation of new jobs, and the third is that in the years to come we will also make structural changes within the country. That's what the previous government did, and so will we. I'm not going to give any guarantee that all government jobs are going to be exactly where they are. That would be completely wrong. A modern state must also implement modernisation measures and must implement structural measures, but then I will deal with the guidelines for establishment and structural change in the state, and – as I have announced – I will review today’s guidelines to see if they are adapted to our modern times, and to follow up the decisions taken today in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2497	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. The government has said that it wants substantial changes in the organisation of the state, as the Council of State also repeated. Then we've seen a lot of things now, for example. in the customs, tax and state collection centres, that there is criticism from the elected representatives that there is not enough involvement. I know these things are not on the mayor's table, but I want to ask the council of state how he sees fit to ensure that the trustees in the state are well involved in future conversion processes that the government has announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2502	I can confirm that the whole government is taking the most seriously. We are very aware that good change processes require good involvement with the employees. It will be taken into account in the processes to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2507	Both the government of Bondevik and the government of Stoltenberg decided on the relocation of state jobs from Oslo. In total, it was decided to move out approx. 2000 jobs through a change in the location of state institutions during the two government periods. Under the two governments, 10,000 new state jobs were created in Oslo at the same time by the extension of existing establishments. So it was established five times as many new jobs as it was moved out. Is the opinion of the Central Party shared by the Council of State that stronger instruments need to be put in place to achieve the objective of a better geographical distribution of State jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2514	To that question, I have to say that I agree with what the representative Karin Andersen said, namely that we cannot put a roof on state jobs in Oslo. Then it will affect hospitals, then it will affect universities, there will be a completely wrong procedure, so we need to distinguish between service provision and administration and competence jobs. As I have underlined, I agree with the broad majority in the United Kingdom that we should have an active relationship with this, and that new state jobs should mainly be left outside Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2519	It could be tempting to ask the Council of State about the whole of this – agricultural policy, fisheries policy, local hospitals, municipal economy – because all of this is linked. What one hand is doing, one hand is kind of going to have to vote with the other. But I'm going to ask concretely about the things that the government has actually done. One was these structural changes, as the Council of State says, in the Directorate of Economic Management. It chose to locate these jobs in one of the most pressing areas in the country, the Stavanger area, instead of putting them in a place where there was not much pressure. The second was health records and custody at Tynset, which was chosen to be withdrawn from the budget, and which is now unexplained. The questions then are: is this structural change – moving previously decentralised jobs into press areas? Or do you want to look for areas that are not press areas? And when will the clarification for Thinset health archives come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2527	I don't think the representative Karin Andersen expects me to clarify this right now. That clarification comes when it comes. In the case of DFOE and other structural changes – under this government as under previous governments – concrete assessments will be made on a case-by-case basis of what is the best location. And to repeat what I have said earlier in the debate, we are following up on what are the government guidelines in this area. I will now also review the guidelines, also in the light of what Stortinget has decided today. Finally, let me say that when you draw up one side of the proposals that are being promoted, you also have to include the other measures. It is true that this government is building more roads than it was done in the past and is relying more on knowledge and research. It contributes to more growth across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2536	If we're to spread government activity out into the country, we need a conductor. I am very pleased that the minister is willing to take on that assignment and clearly announces that one should go through regulations, etc. to get to that goal. Often when we deal with these kind of principal questions, we're pretty much a few. But when it comes to it, we see the strong gravity that the Oslo environment has. Based on what the government has done, the Riksarchive at Tynset has been up, the Directorate of Financial Management has been up. In addition, there are a number of other things that this government is now doing: one assesses how to shut down the Veterinary Institute in many places in the country, one assesses how to lay down the Judicial Genetic Centre in Tromsø, and one assesses how to move the National Centre of Art and Culture from Bodø to another, probably Oslo. My question is: while we wait for new, modern guidelines, will the minister put the pause button on ongoing centralizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2543	Current structural changes must follow the guidelines of the previous government. They're also going to apply under this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2548	It sounds like a very unclear answer -- this is a decision. The National Archives of Tynset was a decision that this government stopped, the Directorate of Economic Management was a decision that this government made itself. The assessment of shutting down the Veterinary Institute is also a decision that this government itself has taken, and not least the Legal Genetics Centre, which has been up in this Chamber several times, and which is something that Minister of Health Bent Höie has brought. So this isn't an inheritance from a previous government, this is actually a child of the new government. My question again goes to the Minister: Does the Minister, as the conductor of this question, come to put the pause button on ongoing centralization?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2555	I don't buy the premise for the question, that it's about centralization. This is about structural change and modernisation. All who are trailers of a strong state should also be trailers of a modern state. If it is the way SV wants to put the break button on necessary structural changes and modernisation in the public sector, well, then we disagree. I believe that we should implement modernisation measures, so that we develop a state that is modern, which is an attractive job, and which has strong skills jobs. And then, of course, we have to be aware of localization, both when new jobs are to be created and when such structural changes are to be made. Then I have said that the structural changes that are now being implemented will be implemented according to the current guidelines, and then we will review the current guidelines to see if they are adapted to the challenges we are facing in the coming period and in the light of this debate we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2560	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2565	The proposal of the representatives of the representatives of the Left on a plan for the distribution of State jobs and State competences across the country is very important, and is an independent goal in itself to bring our whole country into use. Proposals both justify the creation of a distance between decision-makers and the implementing professional bodies and contribute to the dissemination of State jobs as an active regional policy action. A third argument for why this is more important now than before is the possibility offered by the simplification project launched by the government of Stoltenberg in 2013. It provides for a simplification of government services to citizens based largely on two-way digital communications. More and more government services are digitised and simplified, and with ever better broadband coverage in the future, it will not depend on where you live or when you want a service done. We can already today as residents sit on the cabin and submit the declaration many places. The fact that services are digitised also means that government jobs do not necessarily need to be located in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim or Stavanger. They can be anywhere. I noticed that the government of Solberg in the Sundvolden statement said they would secure the entire country high-speed broadband with a target of 100 MB per second during this government period. I expect that it is the government's intention to follow up this goal, which will result in the digital infrastructure to establish new state jobs outside the big cities being in place in a relatively short time. Moving jobs, whether it's to or it's from a center, is always painful, both for the professional environments and for the families directly affected. Therefore, the Workers' Party has always had the greatest focus on new start-ups and has been most concerned that start-ups which do not need to be close to a large centre for the purpose of the function should be spread to different regions. State jobs are important in districts because they help to complete the rest of the economy, so that private operators too find it more interesting to set up their businesses. I therefore think it is very gratifying that the majority, consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left, the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party, now agree that the government should promote a proposal for a plan to ensure that new state activities will build up under viable regions throughout this beautiful country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2582	The last right-hand seat was transferred to various parts of Norway — to Bodø, to Haugesund, to Lillesand, to Førde, to Bergen and to Trondheim, to name a few. There were two important reasons for that. One was that it was important to use competences that exist throughout the country – not because that competence did not find itself simply another job, but actually because it is reasonable for the state to use heads and competences around the country. It provides a better public sector to be able to use the whole country in that context. The second important reason was that it was in principle important, especially for the supervisory side, that we wanted to highlight the distinction between management and supervisory bodies even more clearly, and in this way also the independence of supervisory bodies from management. To put it another way: that not the same people applied for each other's jobs, and that you had an eternal stealth and round dance, but that there were actually other people with a different kind of competence that came into the different floors. In the right, we are pleased that the proposers are also concerned with both of these aspects, and that is important. It is also the case that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre today show an eye-catching interest in following up the line that the previous non-socialist government stood for. Well, they've had eight years to follow up on active relocation or localization of state jobs, but with respect to reporting: little has been done. Instead, the red-greens today highlight a proposal for a big message that you expect and want the sitting government to promote during the next year. Well, the previous government had eight such one-years on it to promote such a big message without doing so. It's more interesting to see what's going on. The right-wing party government actively follows up the current policy, namely to establish new activities mainly outside Oslo. I have two examples: the Health Minister has decided that the new National Health Building Organisation for the health sector should be established in Trondheim, and a new national health care ICT company should be located in Bergen – for example. Then it was strange to hear the case-rapporteur, who said that these parties are not interested in concrete actions. It is nice to wish the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre a warm welcome after, but unfortunately only in words, not in action – because in action it is obvious that we need other parties in government. That's how it was eight years ago -- that's how it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2597	I just think it was in place that the Oslo bench was represented in this debate, and also the party that has proposed the matter. The reason why we in the Left proposed this was that there is an irrevocable fact in this room that the large relocation of state jobs took place during the Bondevik II government, where we had to move out many units, from a power-proliferation perspective, but also from a growth perspective. The big difference between today's bourgeois government and Bondevik II is that the Left is not involved. That is why, by making proposals in the Grand Duchy, we want to ensure that this is also on the agenda, whether we are not sitting around the table. The reason why this is important is not the way that I feel a little about Oslo as the big press area. We Oslo people don't like to hear that someone is talking about the city as a press area. It's a city of growth, and I think it's much better to live in a municipality and a city where it's growth than it isn't. I think it's nice to be able to sit in my kitchen chair and see the cranes in Bjørvika. It gives me a positive feeling. But what's important is that you don't just fill a city with public jobs. Therefore, it is also in Oslo's interest to have a wide variety of jobs developing in a city. The challenge for Oslo is that you have a state that places offices in dead urban areas, that gets dangerous at night, or that directly torpedoes the urbanization, such as the city. The Tøen bet, with a police position that makes much of the work done on the Töen to reverse that development, is torpedoed by state jobs placed there. I don't think there had happened anywhere else in the country, that you had torpedoed a municipal bet by the way you place government jobs. This is why it is also beneficial for Oslo to build state jobs around the country – not because it is a press area, but because it is about the mix of jobs in a city, which should be a good mix between public and private businesses and offensive enterprises together with public jobs. The second is a purely power-distribution principle, that those who are to monitor an environment should be recruited from a different area than those who actually exercise power in that environment. We also need that in many other areas than we have today. I think we should have had it in the area of assistance, and I think we should have had it in the UDI administration – just to take some of the debates I've had today, where we see that we need environments of expertise that challenge the environments that are in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2612	Oslo is good, and the fact that Oslo has capital functions and grows and thrives is good. But it's also true that many of these growth municipalities now have problems, because it's going a little too fast. Then there is a need to strengthen other parts of the country. I want to grasp some of the last representative Skei Grande said, because there was another argument for spreading e.g. supervision over what is in the document and what we have discussed before. What the representative Skei Grande said now was that there is a need to recruit those who are going to control someone, from other environments. It's something other than talking about arm's length distance, which I think has something to do with miles and distances – and that's a good point. But I don't think it necessarily happens because you have a job here or there, it has to happen through a conscious recruitment policy. I agree, because it has something to do with the quality of supervision. Then the representative Jensen was up and said that we should look at what this government did, instead of talking – and we have. We see what happens to the agricultural policy, we see what happens to the local economy, we see what happens in the fisheries sector, we see what has happened in hospitals, where hospitals are now allowed to shut down local hospitals, for example. Rjukan and Kragerø – giant, important government competence workplaces, which mean a lot. We have mentioned the Directorate of Economic Management, which was the first where, as the Council of State said, structural changes were made. That's okay, but the point is that you chose to add it to one of the areas in Norway where there's the most pressure. I don't think there was any big assessment behind it, and that it was completely impossible to get to anywhere else in the country. I think it would have been quite possible to get it to another place in the country, where there would have been a greater need for the state jobs. The location of the health archive of Tynset has been working on it for a long, long time. There are professional environments and economic assessments that it is best to put it there – and that was clear. The first thing the government did was say no, they couldn't do that. Still, it's completely blue if there's going to be any of that. I assume there's going to be some of that. But that's what we've seen -- these are the signals we've seen from the government, where they've done the opposite of what they're saying they're going to do now, and where the big, general policy seems to be centralizing and strengthening the areas where growth goes off, while we've seen very little of the measures that contribute to spreading growth to strong regions or to the whole country, as we say we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2625	I don't think Karin Andersen and I really disagree, but I think I might have expressed myself a little confused when I talked about recruiting from different disciplines. I can give you an example: in Norway, we have two major educational institutions in finance. One is in Bergen and is called Handelshöjskolan, the other is in Oslo and is called BI. Much of the financial environment is in Oslo. At that time, perhaps the Financial Supervisory Authority should have been in Bergen. You have to be able to look at how to build professional environments that weigh up – also related to educational institutions and how to build them up. This way of thinking recruits from different disciplines, in order to be able to control different disciplines. I think it would have created healthy dynamics between educational institutions, supervisory functions and different professional environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2635	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 12, 13 and 14 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2673	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2682	As the rapporteur for the Prop-related setting. 59 L for 2013–2014, Changes in the Law on Higher Education, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation. The Committee today presents a unanimous opinion. Some changes and clarifications have been needed in this legislation, such as: in the case of complaints concerning formal error of examination, by the Board of Appeal in the case of complaints under the Public Service Act and in the case of compulsory completion of doctoral training. In addition, legislative changes include, inter alia: an opening for entry positions to facilitate the recruitment of young talent, in view of a wider career cycle in the Academy. The Committee refers to the Research Communication Long lines – knowledge provides opportunities, Announce. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Here lies some of the basis for this bill. In the case of employment in the university and higher education sectors, the legislative proposal also opens up the possibility of employing for years in ancillary services. We are experiencing an increasingly internationalised education and labour market. It requires good recognition and crediting arrangements for candidates with foreign education. The proposal proposes some amendments to the legal provisions in this area. It is necessary to ensure that decisions on the general recognition of foreign higher education give a correct indication of the level and extent of education provided for by law, regulations and international conventions in force. It's something that has this competence today. It should be noted that the subject of appeal by NOKUT should not be able to overestimate the level and extent of the training awarded by NOKUT. However, the complaint subject shall continue to be able to assess the existence of procedural errors, legal application errors and breaches of administrative principles. The proposal also proposes to amend certain legal provisions affecting the rights and obligations of students. This applies, inter alia, to: a clarification in the provision concerning the right of students to a post-natal examination. The proposal complies with the provisions of the Employment Environment Act on maternity leave and applies to both mother, father, co-mother and adoptive parents. The government here strengthens the student's parents' rights. Furthermore, amendments to the law on fraud are proposed. The amendments include the conduct of examinations. Bullying detected at the book check-up prior to the examination shall also be carried out. It is proposed to legislate access to penalties for fraud. Furthermore, the police report is proposed as closed. The proposal is inter alia: justified on grounds of efficiency and a desire for better consistency between procedures relating to police attestations with observations and cases relating to cheating during examination, expulsion and exclusion. In addition, a database is proposed to provide information on exclusion decisions, the RUST database. It shall prevent students from receiving admission to or taking examinations at other institutions when a sanction decision is in place. In the case of compulsory completion of doctoral training, it is proposed that current practice be legalised. The compulsory termination is relevant in the case of scientific dishonesty or where a candidate fails substantially to fulfil his obligations. The proposal also contains proposals to amend different provisions on complaints, including: actions under the Public Service Act shall be dealt with by the Joint Board of Appeal, a complaint body established by the Ministry of Knowledge. The legislative proposal sets out a common appeal procedure in which complaints about characterisation are carried out as blind censorship. The system where the complaint sensor is orientated about the original nature of the complaint fails after this. It is also proposed to amend the provision on the Board of State at universities and higher education institutions, inter alia. in such a way that the King of the Council of State may remove a member of the Governing Board from office in cases where there are particularly serious grounds for so doing, or there are special circumstances which weaken the confidence of the member of the Governing Board. On behalf of a unanimous committee, I hope that the Stortinge can adopt these amendments to the law of higher education today. Finally, there are also two other issues under discussion: the proposal by the representatives of the majors Trine Skei Grande, Pál Farstad and Iselin Nybø on several teachers with a doctoral degree in school and the proposal by the same representatives to ensure a satisfactory commitment to recruitment positions in the long-term research plan. The interesting thing about these issues is that they're all about how we can develop quality in the education sector. That is the main focus of this government's knowledge policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2721	Let me first thank the Committee for its good cooperation and the proposers for presenting the proposal. There are several career paths in the school, as the Left's proposal, for which I am the case spokesman, shows. A joint committee agrees that several career paths are important for both recruiting and keeping more teachers in school. A study carried out by Response on behalf of the Federation of Education showed that 79 pst. by the rectangles of the base ball and 69 pst. by the Vice-Chancellors of continuing training, there are many career paths that are very or fairly important for recruiting and retaining. The Committee is in complete agreement with the principals of Norway at this point. The teacher's profession shall have a high status, it shall be attractive – including over time. The work of presenting a case to the Stortinget on several career paths for teaching staff who better reflect competence and professional background, was started by the previous government and was warned by the sitting government. The Committee is in agreement with the first two proposals of the draft representative and looks forward to considering the matter when it comes at a later stage. For SV in general, we want to make schools much stronger and even more knowledge-intensive organisations. In this context, I would like to say that SV supports, among other things. introduction of master degree training in teacher training. We know well about the Tromsø model and have followed him for a long time. The model is very practice-oriented, at the same time using the best pedagogical theory in the school, and through such a master's degree not only students' projects are linked to school life, but commitments are created between the school and the higher education and research institutions. This is how the school can be brought into the research and the research into the school. We believe this is part of the future Norwegian school – together with a commitment to continuing education, greater professional space and trust in those who work in the school. Similarly, it is with the last point in the proposal for a representative. SV certainly does not stand in the way of several doctoral degrees in school, although it could have been so reasonable with several health sisters. A Joint Committee would like to see more career paths in conjunction with several ways to assess professional competence and professional background. We think it's natural to see this question of doctoral degree in conjunction with the matters that the department is working on, and we expect to come back to the question, but the committee was not interested in already now deciding that doctoral degrees should have such a heavy impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2740	First, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the three matters we are dealing with. The changes in the law of higher education are uncontroversial, but perhaps the most politically important is the follow-up from the research report adopted by the previous survey. There was a unanimous vote in favour of a trial procedure with 300 entry positions. These posts shall be organised in order to enable an academic career in the university and higher education sectors. We know that this is not always as simple in a sector characterized by many temporary jobs. The high use of temporaryity is serious in general, but in particular in a sector where knowledge, innovation and creativity are key factors for success. Insecure work environment, rivalry about few sought-after jobs and uncertainty about the future rarely leads to good growth conditions or a good and safe working environment. The Labour Party regards the high use of temporaryity as a major problem in the sector and as something that needs to be reduced if we are to get even better research environments around universities and colleges. Not least, this is important in order to ensure better recruitment for research. What we are doing now is opening up an experimental system, and it should be evaluated, in particular considering whether it has had a positive impact on the use of temporaryity in the sector. The representative’s proposal to ensure a satisfactory commitment to recruitment positions is a good initiative, but as the Workers’ Party expects the government to come back to the long-term research plan. We assume that there is a broad range of professional thinking, and that scholarships are also planned for mathematics, science and technology, but not just for social sciences, humanities and medicine, there is also a need to ensure good research recruitment. Moreover, cross-sectoral thinking is more important than ever. Many of society's challenges are at the intersection of the traditional division of subjects. We therefore warn against snuffing out the recruitment policy. Finally, a few comments related to getting more teachers with doctoral degrees into school. It is necessary in a society where research, knowledge and competence are so essential that the status of the teaching profession is high. The teacher is important in a good school, and we need more good teachers. Then it should also be that it is natural that people with doctoral degrees view the teaching profession as a possible professional choice. Creating good career paths in school is good for getting more people to choose school. At the same time, we must be so honest that it will be among the exceptions rather than the rule that those who teach primary school have a doctorate. Today, even at universities and colleges, there is a clear majority of those who teach, who do not have a doctorate. A total of 11,500 people without a doctorate taught in the UH sector in 2012. Beyond 8,100 had a doctorate. Then it's very ambitious to try to get doctoral candidates into primary school. Maybe it's not desirable that things happen on a large scale either. For the Workers' Party, such an excessive emphasis on doctoral degrees becomes too much an expression of a somewhat clever vision of knowledge. A long, theoretical and increasingly specialised education is suitable as a basis for research. Such education is not always equally relevant in school, for there is a wide range of skills and experience very valuable – perhaps especially on the side of someone with a doctorate in their luggage. In any case, those who are going to work in school must have the following in common: an interest for children and young people, combined with a strong dissemination capacity and good dissemination capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2753	The Progress Party and I are pleased that there is such broad agreement on the decisions we are making here today, and to which the rapporteurs have explained very well. However, I would like to add some comments to some of these decisions. Although it may seem like rather small cases, which have not received all the attention they deserve, it is definitely important matters, not least for those relating to them. Renewal and improvement have been important to us in the Progress Party before, and it is still. That's why it's good that we get the changes proposed in the Law on Higher Education. One of the changes is that there is now a common appeal procedure, where complaints about characterisation are carried out as blind censorship – against today’s system, where the institutions themselves can decide which evidence to follow in the event of a new censorship following complaints about character decisions. I was a full-time student until 1 October last year, and now when I asked some of my former fellow students what they thought about the scheme, and what could be better, everyone replied that this scheme is so good, since it ensures all the full objectivity and a completely new assessment without interference from the first sensor, which obviously is not very much like the students who complain. So this is something that many students think is automatic today – which is not, but which fortunately is. I think many are happy about that, and I think they all, most will experience it as a more fair system. Another change in the Law on Higher Education is that access to so-called entry positions is now to be made. To join the fight for the wisest minds and to realize the knowledge society, our universities and colleges must be at the forefront of their fields. In order for an institution to be at the forefront of its field, you have to have – and you have to get – the best crew. An institution never gets better than the people who fill the institution. Many environments have asked for a real opportunity to assess the achievement of results in both research and education, and how they contribute to the overall profile of the professional community, before being regarded as permanent. I believe everyone in this Chamber agrees that permanent employment should be the general rule in Norwegian working life. I also think everyone agrees that the overall temporaryity is high in the UH sector, although it is slow, but surely going down – fortunately. That is why this can be a rather difficult dilemma, and I agree with that. But with clear conditions in advance, in terms of results and competence, I believe that this is a good thing in general. It could provide a little longer temporaryity, but at the same time it will allow for a much more predictable career path and career planning. Let me also say a few words about the changes that affect the students' rights and obligations, both of which are important to our 270 000 students. We still have zero tolerance for cheating, and now students get even more responsibility than before, and that's good. The involvement of cheaters is to be punished, and those who are taken into a book check – yes, they are taken. It can't be that these should be free passengers with the attitude to do so, so it goes, without there being any rice behind the mirror. The students have an independent responsibility for this, and I am sure that serious students, with good information in advance, will take responsibility for it. Finally, with today's decision, the right to a suspended examination for birth will be strengthened. Students are now granted the same rights as in the rest of their working life. With rights following obligations, and so does the other way – with obligations following rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2766	In this debate, we're dealing with three things at a time, and I want to start by saying something about Prop. 59 L, which deals with changes in the Law on Higher Education. Like the rest of the committee, the Christian People's Party supports all the proposals made in the proposition – both those relating to cheating and those relating to employment, entry positions, etc. In particular, I would like to highlight the provisions that the right to a deferred examination in connection with birth should be based on the Working Environment Act and that mother should be entitled to a deferred examination if the examination date is in the period from three weeks before the term to six weeks after birth. This is high time. We have to make it easier to combine studies with having children, and this is a step in the right direction. Christian People's Party also supports the proposal that father is entitled to a probationary examination whose examination is held during the first two weeks after birth. I would like to stress that this is only a minimum requirement for the institutions, which is also clarified in the proposal. With regard to the proposal to ensure a satisfactory commitment to recruitment positions to the long-term research plan, the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's recommendation that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. At the same time, I would like to draw the majority comment from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, stressing that a sufficient number of scholarship positions are necessary to ensure recruitment to the sector and to realise the government's good ambitions for research and higher education. The Council's response letter to the Committee shows that the need for scholarships varies from field to field and that the need is greatest in the MNT subjects. In the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, funds were allocated to up to 100 new scholarship positions in addition to those already included in the government's proposal. 148 scholarship positions were allocated, 97 of them for the MNT subjects. The Christian People's Party shares the opinion of the proposers that it is important to ensure the necessary escalation in the number of scholarship positions, and assumes that this is something the government will follow up in the long-term research plan. The last thing, the proposal for more doctoral teachers as part of the commitment to new career paths in school, is really a very interesting thing. I think more career opportunities for teachers are important. It's a good thing, which can help make the teaching profession even more attractive. So maybe we can do that, for example. imagine that becoming a mentor for newly-trained teachers can be a possible career path, which will be both interesting and rewarding to the experienced teacher, and not least be very useful to the newly-trained teacher, who can get help from a teacher with a lot of experience from the classroom. But I think it is important that both the KS and the Education Association be involved in developing new career paths in school. The Council of State writes in its reply to the Committee that the Ministry has already begun cooperation with the parties. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees with the majority of the Committee to await the ministry's work on career paths for teachers and that the government should present this in an appropriate manner to the Stortinget. Then we get a good opportunity to look at both mentoring and other career paths, and not least the recruitment of doctoral teachers when that matter comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2781	Higher education and research is an important field for the Left, and here there are three very important issues in short 5 minutes. First, a few comments related to the change in UH law. We are very pleased that a unanimous committee expresses itself positively in relation to entry positions as a tool for recruiting qualified people to the academy. There is also a need for more disciplines to be introduced. But I want to focus on the temporaryity of the UH sector, which has still not been well-received. This makes the recruitment situation very difficult in many places, and it leads to many going on temporarily in an infinity. Yes, if we see the discussion today related to another matter of temporaryity, it is strange that you get such a great frustration over a small decoration, while here you accept temporaryity for eternity. In this way, entry positions are a positive tool for getting more young people to choose a career within academia. Then to the Left's suggestion. First of all, about recruitment positions: Obliging a escalation plan in recruitment positions in the UH sector is something we have seen that there has been a great need in recent years. Some of the problem is that all the efforts that have been made have been seen as one-off actions, where there is no systematic and clear expectations in the sector as to what politicians are going to contribute. The Left, Right and Christian People's Party have previously agreed to base a minimum number of connections to such a escalation plan. We are therefore quite disappointed that the Right and Christian People's Party does not see the importance of it today. Then I'm very happy that we're going to have a long-term research plan, but I still think you could have gone for these principles related to these scholarship positions. Then to a doctorate. When members of the committee say that wanting doctoral degrees into school is a ‘steep knowledge’ view, I have to admit that I am quite surprised to talk about it. Today we see a society where we get more and more doctoral degrees. I don't understand why it's not going to benefit the school that someone is really well educated in the subjects they're actually going to teach. I actually believe that it is a little bad view of children to talk about not wanting doctoral degrees into school. I believe that our children should have the very best. I believe that a good society is based on the fact that the very best and wisest minds are used for the youngest children. The education institutions that have really succeeded around the world and in Norway in the past are the ones that connect the best to the youngest. Let me give you an example: we have an educational institution that uses it as a principle. It's called Barratt Due Music Institute. They always use the best pedagogues on the youngest children. They organize a summer festival in Valdres where they connect the best pedagogues in the world to eight, nine, ten, and eleven-year-olds. They are the ones who are currently winning all the prizes in Europe. Lifting the status of the teaching profession, lifting the opportunity to have an academic career path also within a classroom, is about lifting skills, it's about raising knowledge, and it's about lifting Norwegian school. So sail if I don't think we can get a large percentage in Norwegian school of doctoral degrees in the future, it's my dream and vision that we'll be able to have it. I think we need it to increase the status of the teaching profession in order to get better results in Norwegian school, but also from the basic knowledge that the very youngest deserve the very best. The younger ones don't just need a lot of adults around them. They need smart adults around them, smart adults who know their subjects, who burn for their subjects, and who are willing to sacrifice a lot to be able to their subjects. This is then an important step in terms of the status of the teaching profession, with which we must do something in the future. It is possible that there is a subtle vision of knowledge, but it is at least a vision of knowledge and not a view of care in Norwegian school. With that, I will address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2794	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2797	So, as many people have said before me, we are now dealing with three different things as one thing. There's a very big consensus on the law of higher education, so I'm not going to go into it very carefully, but it's very good that it's being cleaned up in how one, among other things, is. shall deal with fraud, as mentioned earlier today. There is also a broad consensus that recruitment positions should be included in the long-term research plan, as proposed by the Left in Document 8:50 S. I also think it is great that there is a cross-political consensus that a long-term plan should be promoted for the university and higher education sectors, on the proposal of the then State Council Kristin Halvorsen. I think it is good that the Council of State, Røe Isaksen, follows up this idea and seems to be working well. I look forward to several good discussions on the content of the plan, even before the plan is completed. In the setting of Document 8:45 S, an overall committee is concerned that there will be more career paths for teachers in school, and we record that the government is working on this work in cooperation with the KS and the Education Association. We are awaiting a case from the government and the parties about this. In addition, there is a cross-political consensus that we need more groups of professionals to take care of different roles that the school is dealing with today. Unfortunately, it is not all school owners who neither prioritize nor afford to take such action, whether it would undoubtedly have contributed to increasing the teacher’s ability to have a greater focus on the learning process itself. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of having good health sister resources and social pedagogical competence. Increased resources for consultants are also important. In any case, more career paths for teachers can be a motivation for further professional updates for teachers and also the modernisation of the job categories. But I also have a expectation, and I'm sure the teachers have, that the pay has to be increased. The centre party wishes to have the right and obligation to continue training, and there is also a clear expectation of better pay. There has been a lot of talk about «master’s disease» lately, that there are too many who take masters. There is disagreement about whether the concern is real or not, but the Left suggests today that not only masters, but those with doctoral degrees will receive extra pay if they want to teach in primary school. With all due respect, while debating primary school professors, the Minister of Knowledge has put forward a proposal to introduce five-year teacher training. In the wake of the proposal, it appears that a number of teacher training institutions are likely to be closed because they cannot offer the number of doctoral degrees needed to provide master’s education — this, according to NOCUT. So here we're talking about paying them with a doctorate to teach at primary school. To be honest, doctors from teacher training institutions should have had an obligation to teach in primary school as part of their professional update, with no extra pay. But I'd rather have enough professors in teacher's schools than in primary school for the time being. I hear that the representative Skei Grande says this is a dream, and dreams are supposed to have. All lots, except the Centre Party, will introduce a five-year teacher training. We're warning you about a master's and doctor's disease! I'm glad to see that it's the basic education of five years that is the rewarding thing for a better school. Time thieves, better pay and obligation to continue training believe that we are more important. I still don't understand why, on death and life, we're going to change an education that we've just changed -- the first students are actually going out now in ours. It will cost us pork, time and resources that we could have used in a much more efficient and effective way. But the changes in teacher training will come into place, cost what it will cost, because it is about election vows, and it is about achievement. What could really have made a difference would have been to train those who are unskilled at school today, and give teachers close follow-up, good teaching and good practice, and give them a mandatory mentoring scheme for the first year as a new teacher, as well as the right and obligation to continue training. It's not free, either. There's no preference for people with master's education or doctor's education the primary school needs now. They need professional, safe teachers with a good and relevant vocational training, and we believe that four years is enough for that. We also see from high school that studies that don't necessarily need the same time for education. Therefore, Stortinget has adopted a more flexible secondary education. We also see it in other professional subjects. In our opinion, continuing education is much more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2819	Since part of the content of the proposals is mentioned here, I will not go through everything in detail, but I would like to comment on something in the various matters, first in step positions. I believe that this could be an important contribution to recruitment. Just giving a new chance to recruit high-ranking people from abroad, among other things, can be an important contribution to quality in higher education. It may also help to reduce unnecessary use of temporaryity. I stress ‘can’ because it is not such that this creates more jobs in itself. But it could be, just because you now get a chance to step in, and because we've chosen a model where, if you meet the requirements, you'll get a fixed position afterwards. I would also like to say that I fully agree that high and unnecessary use of temporaryity in the UH sector over time is a problem. I think the previous government did something reasonable when it added to the letters of assignment to the institutions that we should have the temporaryity down. It seems to have worked a little bit. It looks like the temporary is going down, but that's something we have to keep working with. So I think it's very good that there's a broad political majority behind all these changes. I also think it is very good, and I want to highlight, as the Christian People's Party's representative did, that it is good that we now change the legislation, so that those who are going to have children during the studies get the same rights as others, and that we also do something about the possibilities of cheating and tightening the sanctions on it, also for those who assist them as cheaters. So for recruitment positions in the long-term research plan. There is no disagreement about the need for scholarship holders and recruitment positions. The majority of the population who adopted the supplementary proposal was also very concerned about it. That's exactly why there were extra scholarship holders in the supplementary proposal, and that means you're on the right track. Then one in the long-term plan has to see different parts of higher education in context, and I'm glad you agree on that. I am also very interested in discussing both research and the long-term plan before the plan comes. I have e.g. On behalf of the Ministry, we presented the six main priorities and the general headlines on what we believe to be the most important Norway should give priority in the future, and would like to discuss them either in the main hall or elsewhere. So the questions about doctoral degrees and career paths at school. I just want to say first that although NOKUT has opinions as quality assurance bodies about which institutions today – i.e. as of today – will be able to provide master's degree education for teachers, that does not mean that the government has pre-concluded. This means that those institutions — and they are well aware of it themselves — need to learn about education and learn about their practices if they are to be able to provide master’s education. But it's not like the government has picked out some institutions that are going to get and not get. So there's a broad consensus that you also need career paths in school, and that's very good. The question in this particular context is whether you should see everything together, or whether you should start with doctoral degrees. I'm not going to interfere in the discussion about knowledge or not, except to say that I think it's very good with more people with doctoral degrees in school. But I don't think we're going to demand that you have a doctorate. I must admit that I see other things that – let me say – are at least as important as getting more with a doctorate in. But if we're going to build career paths in Norwegian school, it doesn't just assume that you have a will from the state to prioritize it, it also assumes that this is used in the municipalities. This means that you have to bring the municipalities as employers, and that means you have to do it in agreement with the teacher organisations. I think that is important for us to get a system that is robust over time, at least try it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2836	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2839	I have a question about temporaryity in the UH sector, which I feel all parties are concerned about, and which is gratifying that we started to bring down some measures that the red-green government has taken. What I'm asking is whether the Council is considering the use of new instruments and what he believes is acceptable levels and acceptable progress in terms of temporaryity in the UH sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2844	It is difficult to specify a very accurate percentage of what is acceptable use of temporaryity, but what we can say very clearly is that part of the temporaryity in the higher education sector is also linked to non-scientific positions. There it is most obvious. But there is also a problem in the scientific professions if the temporary period is long and if it is not justified in particular. For example, the entire Committee is aware that there may be special issues related to applications, research councils and the kind of things in this sector, but the temporaryity is higher than that. I believe, as I said, that it was an important step to get this into the letters of assignment to the institutions. There is something that the previous government was concerned about following up, and that we have also been concerned about following up. And then we've seen, as the representative also says, that the numbers have gone down a little bit after that -- that's very good. If they keep going down, we don't need any further tools initially. If the decline stops, we have to consider other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2851	There is so little disagreement in these matters that we have to try to disagree about what we can! I take the invitation from the Council of State, which says that a person wants to discuss the matter before submitting the long-term plan for the university and research sectors. We haven't been flooded with matters by the Council of State for the year that has passed. But with regard to the six main priorities, I wonder if the Council of State will be so open that he dares to come with them to the Stortinget before he has closed and sealed and found out the right way from the government, and whether we will get them during the harvest half-year, or whether we have to wait until the next spring again before we get presented to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2858	There was a lot of disagreement in the Question Time last Wednesday, so I don't think it hurts that we have some harmony on some issues, even though democracy also involves disagreement. I think it makes very little sense to take out a little bit of the long-term plan and then put it in front of the Stortinget, and then the Stortinget will get all the other information later. I think it's a little bit neatest that you put everything forward at the same time. Our presentation plan stands – it is announced: the long-term plan should initially come during the autumn. That's also the plan we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2865	That sounds very good. We know, of course, that there are big things going into such a long-term plan, not least the funding system, which, in my opinion at least, almost requires a debate on its own. I understand that the government wants to present all of this in an overall package, but if that's what the council said from the pulpit, that he would like to discuss this, either outside the storeroom, but I also understood inside the storeroom, at least I wanted a case for the Stortinget that went on, for example. the higher education funding systems. I was wondering if the Council of State could contribute to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2872	After all, we have set up a funding committee to go through the entire funding system for higher education, among other things. considering the many recordings that are coming. Although the quality reform and the reward in terms of study credits are very good, there may be some weaknesses in e.g.: not sufficiently encouraging quality. That's one of the things we want to investigate. The second, of a list of several, is whether there is consistency between the appropriations allocated to the various institutions at a time when universities and universities, for example, are involved. has become much more similar. I am not saying now that all of this will come into the long-term plan, but all of these matters will come to Stortinget in an appropriate way where it is right to put it before Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2879	The Council of State would – a little strange, I think – not mean anything about different views of knowledge, but I thought that at least I could ask a yes or no question about it, because I know that the Council of State is very concerned about making the teaching profession more attractive, to return to respect for the teaching profession and again to make it an administrator of some authority in society. Then I wonder, does the Council of State think that if you say that those who know a lot, don't use the time to tell children, you'll increase respect for the teaching profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2886	No! No!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2891	I have a question about the mathematical, scientific and technical subjects, because in a letter from the minister, he says that it is these subjects that have particular challenges, and that should be given particular priority with recruitment options. I haven't been able to find anywhere that it's especially these subjects that have major challenges. We just got a report that dealt with the humanities, and there they also had particularly big challenges. So when a multiple in the committee, based on what the minister wrote in his letter of reply, also assumes that the mathematical, scientific and technical subjects have particularly great challenges, I simply wonder: What is the basis of fact for that claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2901	I may have to come back to the exact source reference if the representative wishes to, but you can see that the number of scholarship holders has doubled in the last ten years, about that. The reason why the MNT subjects are pointed out is that there are more expensive scholarship holders, and there is also a broad political consensus that special attention must be paid to the technological and real science subjects. That's why the majority of the population, as well as the government, have chosen to give special priority to these subjects. But the very correct source reference to that is not going to be able to take on the standing foot.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2908	There was a slightly wider round of research and higher education, and it's fine. We need to have that in Stortinget. On 14 January, the Minister of Knowledge presented his seven points of quality in research and higher education. The points were as follows: first, he was to set up an expert group to look at funding, to replace the expert group to look at the funding that was being put down. He was going to follow up the decision of the previous magnification on a long-term research plan. He would follow up on EU Horizon 2020 – well and good. He was to give a big message about structure, develop world-leading environments, care for employees and raise teacher training. That was the seven points. These are all good points. What I miss is a point of internationalisation in general. One thing is the EU's Horizon 2020, which is very good and very important, but if we're going to promise world-leading environments, we're going to give our students the global competence they need, it's not enough to oppose bathing studies, you also have to be in favour of internationalisation and contact with China, the United States and South America – world-leading research and education environments around which researchers and students can benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2917	Now it is not necessary to include all the priorities when saying what are the main priorities, but I fully agree with the representative that internationalisation is not just important, but crucial for Norwegian higher education. Now we've got numbers that show that we've gradually become quite good at international recruitment here, although we can discuss the level, and whether we need to get more to stay. But too few Norwegian students leave. I want to point out one concrete thing that I think we should do: we should develop a strategy based on the model of the North America strategy, where we have had a systematic strategy to work on both getting more institutional cooperation with North American institutions and getting more students to leave. Similarly, we should have, not for the rest of the world, but for the BRICK countries, precisely because Brazil, Russia, India and China are countries that we know are going to gain relatively greater power in the years that come, and that are very important for Norway to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2926	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2931	Today, several issues that all have in common are being dealt with in order to strengthen the work of realising the knowledge nation. The Left’s proposal to ensure a sufficient number of recruitment positions proposes to establish a minimum number for the escalation of scholarship positions in the long-term research plan. In recent years, there has been a positive trend in the number of doctoral degrees received every year. In 2003, in Norway, we had only half as many doctoral degrees per capita as in Sweden, and we were far behind both Denmark and Finland. In 2012, we received a report describing the need for doctoral candidates in the Norwegian labour market in the years to come and providing assessments of other issues relevant to the understanding of doctors and research education. Two years after the report on the demand for and offer of scholarship positions in Norway up to 2020, 200 doctoral students are graduated more annually than what was used in the investigation. It's positive. Nevertheless, there is still a need for more doctoral candidates, especially in the fields of mathematics, science and technology, but also to some extent in the fields of social sciences, medicine and health. I can inform you that this is documented in that report, which was requested by Fylkesnes. Today, we are increasingly in need of doctoral qualifications in several parts of society. In the past, doctors tend to end up at the university, but in order for us as a nation to succeed in building the knowledge society, we need competent candidates more places than in the academy. It is a prerequisite for a well-functioning research and innovation system. That is why it is very good that the government in this year's budget, in addition to significantly strengthening the budgets, proposed the establishment of a system of public sector doctoral thesis. This will make it easier for the public sector to define doctoral projects highlighting relevant issues in a collaboration between the academia and the public sector. In the current year's budget, grants for scholarships were strengthened in line with the red-green government's proposal, and particular attention was paid to the increase in the so-called MNT subjects. After nearly one year of new government, it is good for a representative who burns over the average for research to record that there are several good moves that are now being made to strengthen the knowledge society. Today, we're legislating equal rights for students, so we're facilitating the combination of studies with having children. In addition to the changes in the Law on Higher Education, the government has recently presented an ambitious plan for Norwegian participation in the EU research programme Horizon 2020. In the autumn, the government’s long-term plan for research and higher education, which will describe recruitment in general and scholarship positions in particular, comes to mention something. Perhaps it's also that in the next growing-up period you get more than one representative on the Stortinget with a doctorate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2952	Some comments relate to the three issues that have come up here. Several of the things that have been put forward here are spreading out of the big news. Like SVs and as part of the Red-Green government, I'm glad that a lot of the main lines from the previous government are passed on here. During our government's time, the investment in research actually increased by 6.7 billion. kr, and the public-issued share has increased from 0.79 pst. from 2005 to 0,92 pst. in 2013. It is no wonder that when the Committee goes through supply and demand by 2020, numbers are already out of date when we are going to deal with it. So I'm going to say that the new knowledge minister has come to a well-covered table. That being said, we're not going to stop it. We're not going to be happy with this. I think we're all in the committee, of course, want a bigger bet. What I think is a bit striking, is that we're developing a biased bet. The representative Vinje was inside in his post, with a reference to a foundation. But I think we can't have it like this, that the fraction of the bet on recruitment settings should only go to one area, especially targeting people with a certain type of competence. I think I'm a too clever way to think about the MNT subject as well. We need to have a balanced approach to this. Within the context of the issues addressed by the MNT profession, there is a great need for both humanists, socialists, and so on. We need a broader approach to this. So a little comment on this with the entry settings. As several hearing aids were involved, of course, there is an uncertainty about how this will affect the timing. I think there is a broad consensus in the committee that if entry settings lead to more temporaryity, that system has been unsuccessful. It also applies how these settings should be fit into the existing job structure. What happens to post.doc.? What happens to the other types of options we have? So here the department has a job to do. But step-in options also stream out of the long-term research message, and are a way to take care of the best talents and make sure that they get a more careful run in the research. That's a goal that I support in my whole heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2963	I'll be as clear as possible. Doctoral degrees are good, and it is also good to have doctoral degrees and to work in school. Then the representative Trine Skei Grande can read the setting, where she will be able to discover that all parties, both the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party – except the Right and the Advance Party – support the intention of the proposal. Now it's said quite clearly. But I have to say I react when it almost sounds like being the best is like having a doctorate. Where in the world do you get that? You're the best person to know, to be able to specialize in something. That's what it's all about when you're going to take a doctorate, especially if you're good at theory. Everyone here, and in Norway's country for the rest, knows and remembers the good teacher who made a big change for us, when we all grew up and became something here in the world – which can make a big difference. He did not necessarily have a doctorate. It's not about that. It's all about completely different properties. Ivar Frønes, who is a sociologist, and absolutely has a doctorate and is a recognized researcher, said something very wise at the NHO annual conference this winter. He talked about that we're using wrong terms when we're talking about education. We're talking about higher and lower education. We should start talking about longer and shorter education. Both long and short courses can be of great quality. It can be world-class, even if you have a short education. Everyone knows that, for example. have been on a Norwegian industrial enterprise and know how world-class skilled workers really have a very high level. They don't necessarily have a doctorate, but they might work with people with doctoral degrees. That's what I mean by that we have to have a slightly broader approach to how we view knowledge and competence than just seeing it as those who have higher education have so-called greater value than those who have so-called lower education. When it comes to getting people with doctoral degrees into school – to make it quite clear – the Workers' Party supports getting more of them in, but we will not agree that there should be different values associated with what kind of education you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2978	I must also agree that there has been a very large degree of consensus here today. Where we now see some disagreement, the question of knowledge is related to doctoral degrees in school. I have to say that I am reacting a little to Trine Skei Grande's statements that not supporting Left's proposal to get more doctors into school now represents a poor view of children. I think that's a dry claim. Then I agree with the heart that our children should have the very best. But the question is, what's the best? If we go into a 1st class today – I have a first class at school myself – we see everything they need to learn. He/she shall learn to crack the reading code, learn to crack the calculation code and learn to crack a wide range of social codes. There's an incredible amount of first-rate Norwegian school learning today. What are we going to do to help these children the best they can? What are we going to do to get the most on the load – that the least possible of them falls from later school? What should be done to maximise success, so that they do not need special education later, but benefit from ordinary education? A teacher with a doctorate may want to do a better job than a teacher with a four- or five-year high school education, but that's not certain either. It is not certain that at this level in school there is a doctorate that will determine whether a teacher is a good teacher or a bad teacher. I want more teachers with a doctorate in school, but I think this must be seen in connection with other career paths at school, as well as in connection with recruiting other professional groups into school. I don't just want more people with doctoral degrees, I also want more engineers with work experience from business. We have to look at this completely. I'm not saying that it's wrong to want more with a doctorate at school, I'm not saying that it won't help raise the quality in Norwegian school, but I think it's natural to look at this whole thing when the government comes back with a case to Stortinget, and that we're not now saying that we're going to have more with a doctorate, until we deal with the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e2995	I just have to say that in the posts of Mr. Tyvand I didn't realize what it was he disagreed with, because he just repeated what I meant, so I couldn't quite ‘catche’ what the disagreement was about. I understand that this is a disagreement about progress, etc. But what I took the floor for, and which I reacted to like that – and which I am pleased that the representative of Aasen has corrected – is that when the teaching profession in the Norwegian community has had an authority that was quite large, it was linked to the teacher's education. This does not mean that vocational training is worth less or something, but that means that we have not managed to keep up with the teacher's length of education compared to the length of education in society. The centre party believes it is a ‘disease’ that people have long education. I don't think so. I would never use "sick" associated with degrees. I think it's a great strength that we have a society that goes by degrees. At the end of the 1980s, they were able to enter teacher schools with 2,0 and 2,1 in average. I know that, because I applied to these schools back then. It was not good for the status of the teaching profession. That's the trends we're going to turn around. Then I think we're going to stretch for more knowledge, and we're going to stretch to give status to having more knowledge and more depression. If you're going to break the school code, it must be a dream to have a school like this. has one with doctorate in exactly this. It must be a dream for the other teachers to work on a team with a teacher with depression in this very thing. It must be absolutely amazing to put together a team of teachers consisting of different skills that you can work together on. I am pleased with the clarification that came from the representative of Aasen. I think that's the way we talk about the teaching profession, which is important in the future -- that we're actually going to talk it up by focusing on knowledge and focusing on lifting the teaching profession. It will take many decades to achieve that. But then we don't have to talk down being a teacher. Then we must not talk about just having good sex with kids, this is going well. No, knowledge is to be imparted to these children. Then you have to have an important and good background knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3006	I just want to make a brief comment to the SV representative who does not fully agree that we should give priority to the MNT subjects in terms of doctoral education. Then I just wanted to clarify that the reasons why there is an additional need to prioritize the MNT subjects – mathematics, science and technology – in terms of scholarship positions are well documented in the report ordered by the previous, red-green government with SV in the Department of Knowledge. It is called Demand for and offer of scholarship positions in Norway up to 2020 and was presented in 2012. It says explicitly that they are particularly large in the MNT disciplines, and there is room for some growth in social sciences, medicine and health. This is well documented, and there's nothing to suggest that this has changed in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3011	There was something in the exchange of words between Marianne Aasen and Trine Skei Grande that couldn't stand undisputed in this room. It will be in the record that the parliamentary leader of the Left says that the best and the wisest have a doctorate. That's who we need in school. She even went so far that she asked the minister of knowledge if he agreed that the children needed these best and wisest, read: the doctoral holders. There are many good and wise people who have a doctorate, but there are 90 000 teachers in Norwegian school who do not have a doctorate and who are wise and good people. When the parliamentary leader of the Left teaches the Chamber not to talk down on the teaching profession, she talks with deep insight into the practice. It's like we have people with three years of education in school, we have four years of age, and we have a good deal of master's degree – five years of education. We might also have someone with a doctorate. We have people with continuing education, a course in school management, depression in reading difficulties, insight into behavioral challenges, etc. – that does a great job. That it is said from this hall that the wise and the best are also needed in school, I believe is to downgrade, downgrade and downgrade the amazing people who do a job in Norwegian school today. It's great with people with doctoral degrees. Many of them are needed to train those who will be teaching at school in the future. Many of them are needed at research institutes, universities and universities. Some people can probably also benefit from primary school. But the jam is many without a doctorate who do a huge effort in Norwegian school every single day. That should also be very much appreciated by the Left Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3021	There are different ways around the doctorate here in this debate. It's impossible to know how these discussions develop, but now we've got the fasit. Only to take this with offer and demand with Kristin Vinje: Yes, they speak it refers to, votes if you look at the excess of doctors at zero growth if scholarship holders are held at the 2010 level. I mean, it's actually one perspective. There are also other perspectives of this, which I think we as a committee for research must take over. We look at a number of disciplines – very small subjects in Norway – that are in crisis, and that we recently got documented by a selection that provided an explanation of the situation of humanities. Humanities may sound trivial to someone. But they're part of our societal preparedness, in line with other types of knowledge. I'm not going to cross the discussion for too long, but I have to agree that I have rarely been as surprised as I was when I got the right discussion that doctoral degrees are it all, very best for children. I really like people with doctoral degrees, but they're not necessarily good teachers, and that's not necessarily what students need. There might be a lot of different things here. A knowledge view must have a width. That's, as I see it as a philosopher, the definition of what a knowledge view is, but we can't lock ourselves to a definition: it's best for the kids, and it's not that good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3032	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 12, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3046	The representative proposal from Audun Lysbakken and Snorre Serigstad Valen on unmarked graves at Ris Cemetery is a special matter. At Ris Cemetery in Oslo, there is a memorial of anonymous urn graves after patients at Gaustad Hospital who were buried between 1965 and 1987. The history of these graves is not fully known. The proposers propose that the Stortinge should ask the government to secure the names of the people buried in these anonymous urn graves at Ris Cemetery, while respecting privacy so that families can have certainty and dignity. Proposalers also want the Stortinget to ask the government to investigate whether there are several similar graves in Ris elsewhere in the country – in order to provide answers to families who do not know where their family members are buried. This matter concerns several matters. It concerns the legal link to anonymous burial, and the question of who is buried here. It's about the difficult story of the tattoo and romance people here in Norway, and it's about relationships with the history of psychiatry and psychiatric patients. The size is well known to the state-appointed tater/romani committee, which is now working under the leadership of Knut Vollebæk. The work of the Committee shall be completed by 30 May 2015 at the latest and shall form part of a NOU. We are many who hope that this sample work can bring about new knowledge on a difficult subject. As part of this work, historians and State Fellowship Per Havee have researched the matter. He's as far as I know the only scientist who has full access to the patient records at Gaustad Hospital. According to his research, it has been shown that only one of the 55 buried anonymously in the memorial is of the Romani people. Haave also stresses that there is no evidence that the tombs have been subjected to experimental treatment or sterilisation. According to Haave, it's not right to describe this as a mass grave. The graves in the memorial are anonymous graves and should be treated accordingly. The results of Havee's research will be incorporated into the report of the Tater/Romanian Committee next spring. As regards the legal aspect of anonymous burial, the Committee refers to the State Council’s letter of reply of 1 April 2014. It is pointed out that anonymous burial is a worthy form of burial which is recognised and reflected in today’s legislation. In the letters of reply of the Council of State, reference is made to the regulation of 10 January 1997 No. 16 to the second paragraph of Section 19 of the Tombs Act, where information on anonymous burials and personal circumstances is subject to professional secrecy. The Committee has noted that the obligation of professional secrecy does not prevent the disclosure of information to those directly concerned. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that the Council of State in its letter of reply states that if burials have actually taken place in the anonymous way of memory contrary to the wish of the immediate survivors of the deceased, this breach is the prerequisite for anonymous burial. In such cases, survivors must be able to obtain information about the person buried by the local burial authority. This must be specifically assessed and determined by the local burial site authority. There is an overall committee that expresses an understanding of the unrest left behind when they do not know where their relatives have been buried. In this context, local excavation authorities must ensure that those concerned by the common grave are able to obtain answers as to whether their family members are there, within the limits imposed by the obligation of professional secrecy. At the same time, the Committee notes that the problem of unmarked graves is highlighted in the work of the Tater/Romania Committee and the subsequent NOU, and that any new knowledge of unmarked graves is appropriately followed up by the government. It is an overall committee which supports the position of this case and advises the Stortinget that Document 8:34 S for 2013–2014, the representative of the representatives of the depositors Audun Lysbakken and Snorre Serigstad Valen on unmarked graves, are annexed to the minutes. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation on a difficult matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3076	I would like to thank the case manager for a very good piece of work on this matter. There is a joint committee that now recommends the setting in this case, and what might be important to note in it, is that parallel to this treatment there is an important work led by the Minister of the Church through a selection – the Tater/Romanian selection – which was initially given a deadline, but which has now been extended. The work is simply more extensive, so one wants to do a deeper and better job. During the examination of this matter, we also learned that a person is doing specific research into the state of these mass graves, and this is a work that we in the Committee are particularly interested in addressing at the next crossroads. It is important to take a giver with our own past, not only for the sake of the survivors, but also to ourselves as a society, and I am pleased that a joint committee agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3083	The representatives Audun Lysbakken and Snorre Serigstad Valen make proposals to make available the names of the anonymous graved in the memory grove at Ris graeflund in Oslo. Between 1965 and 1987, 55 former patients at Gaustad Hospital were buried anonymously in the memorial. It is also proposed to examine in more detail whether similar graves exist elsewhere in the country. In my assessment of the matter, I have shown that the graves are anonymous graves, and that they should also be treated like this. Anonymous burial is a worthy form of burial that is recognised. Selecting this form of digging will be done by the person who provides the digging. As a rule, the survivors are responsible for the decision. As I have understood it, there were health professionals at Gaustad Hospital who made the choice of anonymous burial. The reason for this may have been that the patients did not have close survivors who provided the tomb, or that they did not want a separate burial place. The stories behind the individual burial are not fully known. If burials have occurred contrary to the wishes of the immediate survivors of the deceased, this is regrettable. This would in case be a breach of the conditions for anonymous burial. In that case, the deceased must be able to obtain information about the person buried in the burial site. This must be specifically assessed and determined by the local burial site authority. With regard to the issue of unmarked graves elsewhere in the country, I refer to the committee position. The Committee takes the view that this will be highlighted in the work of the Tater/Romanian Committee and the subsequent NOU of this Committee. I notice otherwise that there is a unanimous committee vote in this matter. I believe that the Committee agrees with my assessment given in a letter to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3098	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3112	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3126	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3140	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3146	The size is ready to vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3154	The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence on the development of Afghanistan and Norway’s involvement in the country be annexed to the minutes of the Stortinget meeting on 5 June 2014. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3205	In Case No: 5 and 6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3213	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Kari Henriksen, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Centre Party, proposal No. 4, from Iselin Nybø on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «Decision to the Act amending Law No 22 May 1981 25 on the procedure in criminal matters [[punishment law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3278	Proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Center Party, says: ‘The size requests the government to return in an appropriate manner and as soon as possible with a case on the use and design of smooth cells where it appears that: (a) smooth cells as a general rule are not to be used unless specific conditions are met; (b) smooth cell use shall be justified in writing by the police in each case; (c) children shall not be placed on smooth cell unless there are particularly serious reasons; (d) the prisoner shall, as a general rule, have contact with relatives and employers. Derogations shall be justified in writing.’ 2, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, says: ‘The government requests the establishment of a central system of custody which keeps an overview of the available cell capacity.’ Proposal No. 3, from the Workers' Party and the Centre Party, says: ‘The government requests immediate action to be taken to upgrade more smooth cells by, for example, clocks, windows, furniture, and to establish a timetable for upgrading.’ The left has announced that they are now supporting the proposals of the Workers' Party and the Centre's Party in a subsidiary way. The Socialist Left also warns that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3382	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3392	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3400	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Norway, in cooperation with the UNHCR, receives up to 5000 refugees from Syria.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3427	The vote will take place at the next voting time. The Right Party and the Advance Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3442	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution for II.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3456	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking, pending notification of new legislation, for immediate stoppages of long-term asylum children who have been here for three years or more and their families. The cases shall be brought before the Court of Justice and shall be suspended.`;
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3487	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, by Heidi Greni on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Heidi Greni on behalf of the Centre Party
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3500	There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit a case on a plan for the allocation of State jobs and competences across the country, in line with an ambition to adopt 5,000 jobs out of Oslo during the period 2014-2017.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3513	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for measures to ensure that total employment growth in existing state institutions and agencies takes place outside Oslo.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3528	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a key message by the spring 2015 session for the allocation of new state jobs and activities and the strengthening of state competences throughout the country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3550	It is the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party, the Left and the Socialist Left parties that support the I position and are expected to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3570	It is the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the second position, and that is expected to vote in favour. The Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will support the Committee's position on II subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3978	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3988	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e3996	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for more career paths in school, as well as measures to increase the number of doctoral students in educational positions in school.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the review and modernisation of the categories of teaching staff, so that the categories of posts reflect better competence and professional background. Work shall be carried out in consultation with the partners in the school sector.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the 2015 State Budget, to introduce a pilot project with additional salary subsidies for doctoral students who are teaching basic training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e4039	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a minimum number of recruitment posts to be stepped up in the long-term research plan in line with the report ‘Questionnaire and offer of scholarship positions in Norway up to 2020’, updated with new estimates.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-10.ana.ud1004e4088	Case No. 16–18 are the second processing of laws and relate to Acts 53, 54 and 55. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. Case No. 19, Unit, has already been processed. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
