ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e28	The representative Tom E. B. Holthe, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e39	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e42	On behalf of the representatives of Terje Breivik, Pál Farstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a limited right of withdrawal for the sole proprietor when selling advertising services and the like.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e47	The representative Per Rune Henriksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e50	On behalf of Terje Aasland, Truls Wickholm and myself, I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on a better organised power grid.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e55	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e82	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be conducted over one day with a total speaking time of 6 hours, excluding lines and 3-minute speeches. The number time is divided into groups as follows: Working Party 115 minutes, Right 100 minutes, Progress Party 60 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Centre Party 20 minutes, Left 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 15 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. The replacement of the Rules of Procedure is proposed as follows: six lines of reply will be provided after the speeches of the main speakers of the political groups, parliamentary leaders, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and four lines of reply will be given after each of the other members of the Government, as well as speakers with 10 minutes of speaking time or more – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e93	For many, this has been a great weekend, whether you're engaged in the finals of the Farm, the King of Chess or Salmesan. I'm going to confess that some of the preparations I made for this debate happened at the same time as I heard some hymns – there's a lot of inspiration to pick up. I also posted some of this on Facebook, and then I got a response from someone I don't know, who wondered if this weekend was part of the budget agreement. It is not, but I would say to the honour of the NRK and to the honor of voluntary Norway that such a part of a budgetary settlement will be an ornament in any case. After two and a half weeks of negotiations, the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, agreed on the state budget for 2015. The agreement involves a budget that provides a reinforced social profile and prioritises important measures to equip Norway for the future, not least in the knowledge sector and in business and employment. We also adopt the most offensive climate and environmental budget ever. Family policy is once again on the agenda, and it is a budget that also takes on board the fact that it is a long-term and diverse country in which we live. Freedom is lifted not only by project resources but also by tax deductions that allow the voluntary to give priority to it. The initial budget's commitment to transport, justice and health is also being continued and strengthened in several areas. In my opinion, the conciliation represents a political course which is closer both to the political majority in this Chamber and to what a majority of the population wants. As you can see, democracy has really been in operation since the budget was presented on 8 October. This budget has been fuelled by numerous consultations and assessments — from the largest nationwide organisations to a wide range of individuals. The size of the budget is again very important. I would also like to thank the Right, the Progress Party and the Left for many and long rounds on the budget. Some rounds have been simpler than others – it is to be said, but from the Christian People's Party it is very much to rejoice when we are making decisions later today. The backbone of this budget is still a solid Norwegian economy, but just as full with more unrest than in a while. Continued weak economic growth in the euro area, but with more optimism in the United Kingdom and the United States, while China is downgrading its forecasts – all this adds up to a quite complex picture. Since the summer, the oil price has fallen by over 30 p.p., and after record oil-related investments in Norway, we now see a clear reduction, causing ring-effects in parts of the supply industry. However, unemployment rates for November show a decline from October, and there is a lot of evidence that many professionals go to other industries that have been struggling to get people for a long time. In this way, some cooling in the oil sector may allow for a conversion which in any case will have to come in the years to come. For the export industry, a marked weaker krone also contributes to an improved market situation. Norwegian goods simply get cheaper abroad. However, the current concern about oil prices and markets shows that the way in which we phase oil money into the budget helps to avoid the major fluctuations and is therefore a very important contribution to a sensible budgetary policy. I am also pleased that the budgetary agreement does not involve increased use of oil money in the budget. It's also a signal that this slightly undefined market knows to notice. In the state budget, it's moving in about 13 billion. kr when you include all changes and re-priorities. When you know how much is bound in a budget, it actually means that there have been many changes, both large and small. Then there's also a truth that for those that actually apply, any change is great even though the sum in itself may seem small. What are we going to live on after the oil? There has been a frequently asked question. What we know is that most jobs 20-30 years ahead of time are not yet created, but that the basis is now laid. For this reason, all four parties agree on a comprehensive commitment to the knowledge sector. The State budget provided a good starting point for further education, higher education and research. This is further underlined by the agreement. In the Christian People's Party, we are also very pleased with a breakthrough to increase the teacher's density at the beginning of the school cycle. This will enable us to provide better adapted education for all children, to facilitate the follow-up of those students who especially need it, to reduce the need for special education later and to prevent drop-outs in high school. As far as the last point is concerned, the consensus we have on a significant increase in the apprenticeship grant is also an answer that many have been waiting for in terms of the most effective medicine against high school drop-outs. In total, this is a significant bet that the four batches add up to. The results won't come tomorrow, but they'll come. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I am also pleased that the public schools, tuition fees for foreign students, the outreach grant and capital grants to incubators are areas we have now found common agreement on. A solid business environment ensures jobs and value creation. The government’s proposal for relief from taxes on wealth is, of course, justified by not taxing Norwegian owners more than non-residents – a penal tax on Norwegian ownership that many believe should be avoided. We are very much in agreement with this, but we must look at these kinds of reliefs and bear in mind that they are assessed against the whole budget and also against possible changes in company taxes that are expected to occur. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we have had a somewhat different approach to these issues than the government has had. Now we have agreed on a certain reduction, while adjusting the tax on property in addition to the primary dwelling, and we have also agreed to consider a measure of property tax that distinguishes between working capital – whether it be operating buildings, machinery or tractors – and what is actually taken out on private hands. Then we'll be waiting for the Scheel Committee tomorrow. The first leak has already arrived, but I repeat here and now the Christian People's Party's wish and invitation to a broad political settlement when we receive the Scheel Committee's report on our table. In the cooperation agreement, the four parties have agreed on a family policy to ensure flexibility and freedom of choice. We follow this up together. Cash support was increased for 1 year olds in the year’s budget and continued for 2015. The number of kindergartens can be increased for the next year and provide more flexible admissions. I am pleased that many municipalities have already notified that this will happen. Those with the lowest income will be reduced, regardless of the municipality in which they live, and very many four- and five-year-olds in low-income families will have free core time. The social profile of the budget has also been strengthened. The infant supplement for the infant is maintained as a tested performance with a high-level ceiling. I believe that this will ensure the children's supplement in the long term, while at the same time giving legitimacy to a social security benefit. It's also important. The one-off grant at birth is given a real boost, and family protection is given a solid boost in this agreement. Tax class 2 is maintained. I see that the effort we have agreed on says a lot about family policy and about the common position of the four parties on the importance of the family for the growth and formation of children. Unfortunately, it is time for many children to go too lye and cold water. This is why there is also a focus on child protection and on centres that accept children and parents in crisis. The climate agreement shall be reinforced. That's what the four parties have promised in the cooperation agreement. This budgetary agreement delivers. Railways receive additional money for operation and maintenance, the reward scheme for public transport as well, and new cities can now be included. A marked investment in walking and cycling routes, a forest package that has reaped broad recognition, the extension of Enova’s framework for an increment in the home and more money to the energy fund, a strong commitment to biofuels and tax relief for hybrid cars is a taste of what is to be done in the revised budget. Internationally, 200 million are being added. kr to the UN Green Climate Fund. Moreover, so important: the four parties agree that the environmental mandate of the oil fund should be extended and also open up to unlisted investments in renewable energy. That we have a commitment in the world of which we are part – not least a country like ours, which is so rich – there is a broad consensus. By comparison, the default is 1 pst. of gross national income for development aid secured, and it now has a broad political upturn. The four parties also agree on increasing the focus on education and health in development policy. A concentration on the number of countries for state-to-state cooperation is something we agree with, but we also get a separate case on this presented to the Stortinget. What we already agree on, and which I believe is important, is that this concentration should not concern humanitarian aid or the work of non-governmental organisations. As we all know, there are now more serious humanitarian crises in so-called Category 3 than in a very long time. This poses enormous challenges for neighbouring countries, the UN and other international organisations that otherwise contribute. Norway should, of course, also contribute, and the conciliation means that next year we will increase the number of quota refugees. The enormous suffering we see in other parts of the world is almost impossible for us to grasp. But at least that gives us reason to say that our domestic debate on plastic bags, on which a number of slit meters are now used, has a slightly different dimension. Finally, I would like to thank our cooperation parties, but I would also like to thank the opposition parties, in addition to the constructive opposition, for their good cooperation in the Committee and for their goodwill. There are deadlines that have been extended, but I would nevertheless say that when a minority government presents a budget and you get agreement after two and a half weeks, it is not very dramatic. I also think you have to remember that after eight years of majority rule you may not be used to working with the budget in a slightly different way than before. Thanks to all the parties. Thank you to our own secretariat and to the department that has jointly got numbers, posts and chapters in place. I would also like to thank the President himself for good cooperation in getting this done in the best possible way for the Storting. With that, I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party for an alternative budget, and not least I would recommend the additional position that the majority is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e139	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e144	The Christian People's Party has had to conduct hard marathon negotiations in order for the windiest budget proposals of the time to become less unsocial, and the two parties have had more improvements in place that correspond well to the policies of the Workers' Party, which we have in our alternative budget. But the main procedures in the budget are firm, said the Right parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, clearly and clearly when the budgetary conciliation was presented. The biggest single thing is cut in the wealth tax of the country's richest. It was and is still the largest single effort in the budget. Does the representative of Syversen agree with Greece that the blue-blue main grips are still stuck? All over Norway, municipalities are now preparing for major cuts in the provision of services at school, in care and in many other areas, which means too many. Wouldn't it be better to use the economic space that we now have, as the Workers' Party does, on welfare services, rather than tossing billions after the country's most prosperous? Why did the Christian People's Party want to support and take responsibility for a policy that goes in such a wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e153	To take the property tax: Tore Hagebakken knows as well as I do that many people are far into both his own party and the trade movement point out that there are significant challenges with the property tax. If the representative Hagebakken is in doubt, no one needs to throw money at anyone. What we agree on in this case is to ensure that we preserve Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. I hope that is still a goal for the Workers' Party. With regard to what the Right parliamentary leader says about his own budget, and how the conciliation should be understood, I think he would have actually said exactly what the Labour Party parliamentary leader would say if it had been a different situation. I guess that's the policy of this house that we want to highlight what we want. I have shown in this post, without attacking any parties, that the Christian People's Party has had a solid impact on our priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e160	I do not get a complete answer as to whether the Syverse believes that the main grips of the blue-blue government are still stuck, so he would like to repeat it. But then back to the local economy. In Stavanger, the Christian People's Party has the Vice-President and the Right rapporteur. That's where the councillor proposed so dramatic cuts in school and nursing homes that the majority went to increase property tax by 90 million. kr. It was a long way in. Tax losses are now affecting large and small municipalities. It's about 3 billion. kr. Will the Christian People's Party be involved in pushing the government towards the new age, the last thing we have in the Storting before Christmas, so that we can manage to save many municipal, important welfare offers for large and small people here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e169	What I see remains after this budget is that very much of what the four parties have agreed on in the cooperation agreement is given priority. I think all four parties are very pleased with that, including the Right parliamentary leader, for whom I understand the Hagebaken has a special love. In the case of the Municipalities' Central Association, which is speaking on behalf of the municipalities that Hagebakken is talking about, the budget is, and the comparison is not the least, very well received in the KS and in many of the municipalities – so well that I remember that the representative Hagebakken was angry at the hearing because KS was not more sour than they were when it came to the budget and impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e176	Right has every year prioritised school and education as one of our most important things -- it's because we think that a good school is quite central to giving children and young people opportunities for the rest of their lives, and that education helps to smooth out social differences. Today's children are problem solvers, innovators and entrepreneurs in the future. Research has shown that it is not the learning density, but the quality of the teacher in the classroom that is the most important factor for good results. In the budget agreement, the Christian People's Party gained a positive impact on increasing the learning density of the first and second stages, which will lead to between 1,200 and 1,500 more annual works. How does the Christian People’s Party feel about increasing learning density will increase the quality of teaching and provide better results? And how does the Christian People's Party view the recruitment of the teaching profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e185	To take the last one first, we have a particular challenge in that there are too many teachers who are not in school but who are in other professions, among other things. because they believe that they are not given sufficient time to the students they would like to spend time on. There is one important grip on the proposal we have. Then we have research of different character. But let's take an example from reality, as it's called fine. The Dovre municipality has done some of the things we propose and have been passed on to, together with the Right, the Advance Party and the Left, namely, put more teachers in the primary school. As a result, it has provided better adapted education for all students, and it has also reduced the need for special education later on. It's so good for me that it's worth following up at national level too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e192	I would first like to thank the representative Syversen for a good report. I would also like to thank you for good and constructive negotiations, which led to the conciliation on the budget that we are going to discuss here today. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are two different parties, we're obviously not a few about everything, but we're a civil party, and we have a lot of common values. We are certain that the budget we are going to adopt here is a very good budget, which solves important challenges today, and which equips Norway for the future. I would like to ask the representative Syversen in what area the representative thought it would be easiest to agree with the Progress Party. Where do we have the simplest values, and where do we have the most trap values?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e202	It's rare I'm put on such a serious test. [[muttering in the hall]] As I think, let me confirm that the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party are two different parties, as the representative Hagesetter said, but I would say that we have absolutely reached a good consensus in many fields. Without disclosing too much from the constructive debates to which Mr Hagesetter referred, I understood, for example. that it was not very difficult to get the Progress Party into the school effort we are now in common about. I also believe that in the case of many of the changes we are making on the social profile, at least it does not seem that there is too much inside of the representative Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e209	The Christian People's Party has influenced the budget in several areas, but not when it comes to the major reforms, which are the government's line. An example is free treatment options, a proposal that was slaughtered during the hearing, which is the largest commercialisation of public health in recent times, where private providers in practice are given the right of establishment and can operate patient treatment paid by the State in competition with public hospitals. I want to ask the representative Syversen about how it is to move money, but let politics go, and secure their government's votes for free treatment choices, a proposal that the Christian People's Party in the election campaign said they were very clear against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e216	Now it is the case that the representative Toppe refers to, that the Stortinget is going to deal with in its full width, so we might wait a little while for what comes out of an overall process, before the representative can possibly repeat that we are leaving the policy behind. However, we are changing policies through this budgetary agreement, and I hope that the Central Party, too, when they look at all the positive changes in the budgetary agreement, that is to say that this budget has changed both direction and policy, even in a direction in which the Central Party, in some areas at least, can say it is quite gratifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e221	The budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government allocates 106 million. less climate action in poor countries than is provided for in the draft budget presented by Siv Jensen in October. How did that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e226	I don't know if the representative refers to quota purchases. If that's what's going on, we have experience that the estimate given in the budget is often diverted, at least that's when the red-green fell. It is possible that there is more control over it now with a new government, hopefully it is. But if it turns out that we get commitments that require more of us in that area, we'll of course get back to it. Otherwise, I would like to say that if the representative Serigstad Valen looks closely, the agreement has also received 200 million. kr to the UN Green Climate Fund. I hope there's something he can enjoy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e234	I remember the financial debate last year. Then there were many of the representatives from the government parties who were up on this pulpit and said, "This is just an additional proposition." But just wait, wait till we get our own budget presented. Then people are going to see what this government actually wants. There we are. We've seen what this government actually wants. The draft budget submitted by Siv Jensen on 8 October received some strong reactions. Many have tried to analyze why. I think it's a long way from now on that the government's budget is against people's perception of what's fair and right. It doesn't take Norway in the direction that people want. The very sympathetic slogan ‘People, not billions’ proved to mean ‘People with billions’. Norwegian billionaires and multimillionaires were given the gift package of the times, and the bill was sent to several people, among others. with children, disabled persons with a need for a car, the unemployed, the elderly who had experienced the joy of the cultural spa, and the four- and five-year-olds who had been found entirely innocent in the reception of asylum, but who at least received a day-to-day nursery offer. I could have used strong words to characterize such priorities and the values they express, but I'll leave it. In my opinion, the throne speech of the year was quite good. It was good in the problem descriptions. We agree that Norway faces some major challenges in the years ahead. It is about economic conversion to less oil dependence at a time when oil and gas activity is gradually being reduced. It's about road and public transport at a time when, not least, urban areas are growing, and we're becoming more. It's about care services, hospitals and other health services at a time when we're getting older. And it's about understanding the responsibility we have for the climate with which our children and grandchildren will live, and that the time for action is now. The major climate summit in Paris, where the world has set its own deadline, will not go off in ten years, but in 2015. That's the year we immediately go into. These challenges require something of us as politicians, at least those of us who want to be responsible politicians. In this situation, the government chooses not only to present a budget that makes us more oil dependent than ever, but not just to present a budget where the main disincentive is not particularly growth-promoting tax relief, but it tries to sell this budget as necessary for the future of the country. It'll equip us for the future, we'll hear. The criticism from the voters is that the Nordics do not take into account the changes that the future requires. That's what the Prime Minister said about the evening post recently – we're not going to take it over us, really. This is where I believe that the real problem in communication around this budget lies – if it has been a communication challenge, and some have suggested it. Because it is right that responsible politicians sometimes have to make unpopular decisions, that we, as politicians, should not only listen but also lead. Therefore, it is serious to play the ‘uppullary, but necessary’ card when there is no basis for it at all. People should have confidence that when we say that, it's actually serious. In today's debate, we are going to hear repeatedly that the government's tax cuts are about growth and jobs, and not that wealthy nuclear electors will only pay less in taxes. The big problem of the government is that the debate on the taxes on wealth is one of the longest and most thorough we've had in Norway in very many years, and the fasitist is quite clear. That tax is not unproblematic – we also recognise it – but it is most likely to live with for Norwegian business, and there is absolutely no automaticity in the fact that tax cuts for the most prosperous are what brings with it a lot of new jobs. That people think that exactly they, exactly their group, are going to pay less into the common fund, and that they're finding arguments for why, shouldn't surprise anyone. But we politicians have obligations to deal with the quality of those arguments, and then it's interesting to hear what external, neutral experts say. When VG conducted a survey of Norway's 20 leading economists, it was a massive majority, 17 out of 20 to be completely accurate, giving the government's argument for the tax regime the smooth layer. The government simply does not have heavy professional arguments behind it when it claims that this tax gift to the most prosperous will work in the way it claims. Then the government has a problem, and Norway has a problem. The word «knowledge» is perhaps the most used honorary word of all parties, including my own – for all – in the last 10–15 years. But I have to remember that knowledge is of little value if it is not used, and then I haven't even mentioned the knowledge we have today about the consequences of major economic and social differences for societies and individuals, and that the path to reduced differences does not go by increasing the differences, as Right fiscal spokesman, Svein Brachtten, recently stated in clear text. We now have knowledge that this theory is just that -- a theory that has proved not to be true. That's the knowledge you should take over. I have now spent a lot of time on the government's original draft budget. Today we are going to deal with what I will call a moderated edition, and I will praise the Left and Christian People's Party for a damaging effort through long negotiations, where not least part of the most petty cut proposals have been reversed. That's good. I think we were many both here in the house and around the country who felt that the two support parties negotiated on behalf of far more than themselves, and the budget was also moved in a number of areas closer to the value-based stand to the majority of the Storting. But I would like to agree with the chairman of the committee, Mr Syversen, who also believed that the majority of voters had been brought closer. I think he's right about that. At the same time, I would like to refer to the Right parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, who, during the presentation of the conciliation, at the press conference when this agreement was presented, said that the main acts of the government budget are firm. Yes, they do, and that's why our main criticism is also fixed. Today, we are going to discuss a budget proposal where freedom of action is used to increase disparities, not to equip ourselves for the future. It is in the use of the freedom of action that the budget gives us, that the political differences really come to light. The Labour Party on its side shows with its alternative budget another way towards the future, one where we are going to be the country with small differences between people geographically and widely possible, a road that is about spending the big money on the big tasks. We want to equip Norwegian municipalities to provide their citizens with the security of old age. The municipal structure that the majority will adopt tonight after all the sun brands means that advisers over the whole country are now planning budgets with cuts in welfare, and then we're talking about the welfare that's closest to people. Then we're talking about kindergarten, we're talking about primary school, we're talking about care for the elderly. This is the municipal economy, the close welfare – not dry figures in a transmission table in the State budget. We announced when we dealt with the municipal bill in ours, that we would be adding 2.5 billion. kr over the arrangements of the government in the case of growth in free income. Of course, we follow that up – we have promised. In addition to that, we're adding 1 billion. NOK to compensate for the tax failure now experienced by Norwegian municipalities. The reason why we can do that is because we don't want to do billions of dollars in tax cuts. Representatives of the government parties tried throughout the election campaign to sell us a message that tax cuts do not involve cuts in welfare. We can afford both, was the message. I believe that the government's municipal code shows that they were wrong, but a large part of the cut job is left to the municipalities, we do not take it here in the hall tonight. Then we can probably discuss in the knowledge and the broad how it might be that the representative Hagebakken is more acid than the KS central, but we choose to listen to the municipalities and the recordings that come from there. As mentioned in the reply: Stavanger and Bergen introduce a property tax in order to avoid dramatic cuts in their budgets, in violation of the Right Election Lifts. We have been told that the Vice-President of the Right in Sokndal is now so frustrated by the poor local economy that he does not take re-election. He gets the result of Røres Bjørn Skinnarland in Vinje, who despairs that the government does not take the districts seriously. It should make both the government parties and the supporting parties think. We will also equip Norwegian hospitals to treat more patients and offer the best of treatment. That's why we went out in the election campaign and promised that over a four-year period we'll spend 12 billion. kr extra to bring about a real rise in patient treatment – a costly promise: 3 billion. kr per year. Then it took about 15 minutes before Right Bent Höie was out and promised that it would be right tops, where they would beat us. Bent Höie has now delivered a health budget with a growth of less than 2 billion. NOK and where he adds to include new tasks in the hospital framework without financial compensation to the hospitals. This will give hospitals a more strenuous economy, making estimated activity growth not realistic. So that framework will cover the introduction of the flagship 'Free Treatment Choice', which, when we see the budget figures now, turns out to have skyrocketing red tape costs. We put what we promised in the alternative budget. That's why it's over 1.2 billion. kr more in our hospitals for an increase in activity than in the budget that has been agreed upon. In addition, we are taking real action on public health. Of course, we're going to have the world's best specialist health service, but if people are going to live better lives, if we're going to be able to balance social differences in health and, in addition, ensure the sustainability of our welfare system over time, we need to be better at preventing unhealth. In our public health package, both sports, fruit and vegetables are at school, an hour of physical activity every day, school health services and outdoor activities are very central elements. We're almost as heavy on it as what we're doing on activity growth in hospitals. It's a powerful signal, and it's forward-looking. And we can do that because we don't prioritize tax cuts. We will equip Norway for the future with investment on the road and collective services, kindergartens, schools and research. We have long thought that the state must take a much greater responsibility for financing heavy infrastructure investments in the major cities. They grow fast. Collective systems will collapse in a few years if no more is built, and it is quite illusory to think that county councils will manage the billions of investments they are talking about on their own. We started while we were in government, launching the urban environment packages, a whole new grip. In our alternative budget, we propose to add 1 billion. kr – 10 billion extra over 10 years – to allow the State to take a greater part of the bill for cities that are willing to commit. And we can do that because we don't prioritize tax cuts. We will meet the real needs of creative, ingenious norwegians who want to start their own business. I've met many of them, and the entrepreneurs we meet rarely talk about the wealth tax, it's largely not relevant at that stage, but they talk very often about how difficult it is to get risk capital, early-stage capital, someone who will join them when they're in the most vulnerable phase. We also meet that challenge in our alternative budget. We want to bet on the skilled worker rather than facilitate a permanent low-income class. The government has reduced a productivity commission, and there will certainly be many interesting inputs and conclusions from there. However, those who are seriously concerned with productivity must also be concerned about what is happening now in traditional crafts. Competitive skilled workers and tidy conditions are replaced by cheap, hired labour, social dumping and, in part, criminal matters. We believe that innovation and productivity are created by people who can work, so we are now proposing that we equate the apprentice's grant with the cost of a school place on the preparatory course. It is both an important signal and essential to increase the quality of training, stimulate more enterprises to attract apprentices and recruit more young people to choose these subjects. Together with the renewal of the machine parks around the schools, hospitation schemes for vocational teachers and a number of other measures, a powerful package is put together to strengthen the skilled worker we present. And we can do that because we don't prioritize tax cuts. Then we want climate action as monks, when we go into the year when world leaders meet at the Paris Summit to solve one of the greatest challenges of our time: collective billions and railways, strengthening the environmental technology system, more money for Enova, forest protection, green shifts on car charges that can make a chargeable hybrid up to 100 000 kroner cheaper in purchasing. It's gripping like monks. And we can do that too because we don't prioritize tax cuts. We have to have a backbone to say that the level of taxation we had as late as last year, with the income it gave to the common fund, is a level that both business and most people lived well in 2013, and with which they will live well in 2015. The two or three crown pieces that the government will distribute to people most of the day do not constitute much for the individual, hardly noticeable, and especially when it is eaten by increased kindergarten prices, as it will be for everyone, most of them, or a carrier bag or two at the store. But overall, there is money that really monks in the work of arming Norway for the future. It's a confession we have to take seriously. That's what the Working Party does. We can be on our way into some more troubled waters. Several have been involved in many contexts in the last few weeks and months. We're all busy, I think, what's now happening on the Norwegian base, and the mantra that we need more legs to stand on, as many of us have said in many contexts, is more relevant than ever. Then, as politicians, we must be wise and build up under the industries where we have natural advantage. It could be tourism, it could be the marine sector, fisheries and environmental technologies. We must not liquidate important arrangements for these industries. We have to hold back on the use of oil money, not make it as far as possible at any crossroads. We have to have a proper law of permitting in order to ensure that businesses have the power to maintain valuable competences when the order books are down. It's forward-looking. Norway should be a country with small differences and great opportunities. The Labour Party's proposal for the 2015 government budget reflects the ambition we have for the Norwegian community. We will pursue a policy in which we meet the challenges as a community. That is why we say no to large tax cuts for the most prosperous, and instead use the space for action to invest in climate, knowledge, business and health to equip Norway for the future. Finally, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Financial Committee for their good cooperation. We had one in part tough sjau to get this into port. We got rid of our deadlines as a result of negotiations going on over a longer period of time than we might have foreseen, but we got it in cooperation, and we have now reached the financial debate, where we can be snuffed out about the real political disagreements. I think this could be a good debate beyond the day. I bring this up with the proposals of the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e306	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e311	First of all, I wonder at the representative's criticism of the Right-wing parliamentary leader about the firmness of the main acts. We can see that the Workers' Party is also involved in these main acts, which concern, among other things. focus on knowledge and transport. The right is concerned with keeping order in the Norwegian economy. It is important to ensure jobs and value creation – the very basis for our well-being – and to make Norway robust for the future. If we look at the realities of what actually matters to economic sustainability in the future, it's the underlying expenditure growth in the government budget. The working party proposes net expenditure increases of 8 billion. kr, and it raises the actual underlying expenditure growth of 2,3 pst. to dry 3 pst. and makes it clear about the underlying growth of the mainland economy. The Labour Party itself has criticised the government for overcoming the growth of the mainland economy. Why, then, do they even increase the underlying growth and thus bind up a larger part of the oil money consumption in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e318	Firstly, I have to make an explanation if it is perceived as a criticism of the Right Trond of Greece for his statements. On the contrary, I fully agreed with his statement that the main items in the budget were fixed. And then we have it in place. It is absolutely right that we spend more money on kindergartens, hospitals and care for the elderly than the government does. We can do that because we don't prioritize billions of tax cuts for those who have the most of them. This means, for example: that we can give the municipalities the framework next year that makes the municipalities not need to cut in welfare, as the government now states. However, we spend less oil money than the settlements do, and we do it to show resistance to the glide flight that we perceive the government is on, where, at every crossroad since they took over, you have chosen to correct the use of oil money. You did that when you made the extra proposition last fall, you did it when you came to the NIS department and you went to the revision, and we see that you're doing it now. All opposition parties proposed less oil money use than the government did. This is a strong signal that oil money should be curbed in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e325	I am recording the criticism of the government's use of 2 billion. kr – I repeat: 2 billion. kr – more than the working party itself proposes in the use of oil money. But back to what really matters to the economy of this country in the future: the underlying expenditure growth. The Labour Party first criticises the government for over-growth in the mainland economy, then the Labour Party places itself there again in its expenditure increase and thus binds up oil money consumption on a larger scale in the future. Is this representative Marthinsen and the Workers' Party thinking is a sustainable expenditure increase for Norway from a generation perspective? Is this an attempt to double-communicate a message to the voters, or is it perhaps simply due to some calculation error in the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e333	Given the level of taxation we base in our alternative budget, and given the level of taxation we have gone to elections and communicated to the voters, we are, of course, putting forward a sustainable scheme, where we spend less oil money than the government has provided. There's a sign from our side that we believe that the stuff that we're now seeing at all of the intersections is not okay. I think it's a little strange to register, simply, that when both the Right Party and the Advance Party in election struggle and over several months have made a big point that we had a red-green government that they thought only spent money and allowed public consumption to grow, they themselves present a budget where the growth of public consumption is higher than the growth of GDP. This did not happen while we were in government, with the exception of one year – it was in 2009, with the financial crisis budget. It goes without saying that the bourgeois parties do not have the power to negotiate a settlement that keeps the expenditure growth down, when this has been such a central part of their own communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e340	In the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, a two-billion-billion-dollar tax surcharge has been proposed. Those with the lowest income, as at the bottom of the table, shall be required to pay more taxes on income to the wealthiest country in the world. In addition, many taxes are increasing: fuel and diesel taxes are increasing, caravans are becoming more expensive, motorcycles are becoming more expensive, snowmobiles are becoming more expensive, most cars are becoming more expensive, mineral oil is becoming more expensive, diesel taxes are becoming more expensive, hang-on engines are becoming more expensive, alcohol taxes are increasing, tobacco taxes are increasing, and the non-alcoholic drink charge is also increasing by 5 pst. Of course, the hardest thing will happen to those who have the least route to start with. But one fee has not been reintroduced, the inheritance fee. My question to the representative Marthinsen is: why is the inheritance fee not reintroduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e345	I can see from the representative, Mr. Hagesett, that he's deeply shaken. I just want to clarify the claim that the Workers' Party is increasing the tax burden next year by a two-digit billion. That's wrong. We're proposing exactly the same level of taxes and charges next year as we had last year. Then I would also say that the caravan is something that most people don't buy so often, while plastic bags we use every day, at least most of us, and the kindergarten bill comes every month. So for the inheritance fee specifically. It's a charge where, through our years of government, we gradually raised the bottom line because we saw it went wrong, and it was difficult to deal with for many ordinary people like this. the house of their parents. At the same time, we saw that many at the top were ready. For example, those with large equity assets paid. not at all the charge. That's why we didn't think it appropriate to reintroduce it in the form it was in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e354	First of all, I would like to thank you for a good contribution, starting with Marianne Marthinsen, as head of the Workers' Party's financial fraction – especially that you are so honest and say that the wealth tax actually has problems, although I might not have heard what solutions you might have to come up with to remedy this. But on another point, namely the objectives of climate policy, within which the representative Marthinsen was also involved. We have agreed on the objectives, but we disagree on the instruments. Biofuel was a solid Achilles heel for the previous government. A significant rise is now being made in order to obtain a market for biofuels and charges are being reduced. How does the Workers' Party now proceed to such a grip?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e363	I want to start by returning the honor: it was also a good post by the representative Syvertsen. Just to replicate cards to what he says about the wealth tax and possible solutions to it: we get the Scheel Committee's attitude tomorrow, and the Workers' Party is one of the parties who have noticed with interest the Christian People's Party's invitation to a broad settlement and hope we can get good, constructive discussions in the Stortinget about it. Then we agree on the climate objectives, and we agree that we need to take fiscal action to get both more climate-friendly fuels and more emission-free cars on the roads. We're going to support increased sales orders for biofuels, but we're going to stick to the tax regime that we thought was right. I would like to mention that in our charging scheme we also add up to a grip that makes the hybrids nearly NOK 100,000 cheaper in purchases. It's absolutely necessary to get more technology on the roads, and another technology than just that electric car represents, if we're going to have any chance at all to achieve the goals we've set ourselves for the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e374	The State budget shall contribute to industrial development, to value creation and to jobs. The centre party is committed to putting the whole country into use, not only for the sake of the districts, but also because it is actually important to our country. What one sees as a particular point of business is transport, road and rail, but also access to broadband and mobile coverage. There are currently large gaps, and it is very difficult to live and operate business without proper mobile coverage and without access to broadband. My question is whether the Workers' Party agrees that it is a goal to give absolutely everyone in Norway mobile coverage and broadband access, and that it is a public responsibility to ensure that that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e383	Thank you for an important question. We have many years of cooperation behind us where we have shared a common commitment to growth and development of jobs in absolutely the whole country, and I think that the representative Pollestad will find a lot of prose and also proposals for concrete budget appropriations in our alternative budget as he will if he reads it. One of the points that lie there is the reversal of the cut proposed by the government on broadband deployment. That is what we are reversing because we believe it is an objective that everyone should have access to broadband, and we fully agree with the Central Party that the public must take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e392	By reading through the Workers' Party's Alternative State Budget, one can quickly conclude that they add to public expenditure fairly systematically. Repriorities or cuts on the expenditure page are difficult to find. The expenditure side of the State budget is increasing by about 10 billion. kr with the budget for the Workers' Party. One of the few cuts proposed by the Labour Party is to remove the right to a union quota for people who are not members of a main association. 120 000 people will no longer be deducted from the quota – they will receive a tax tightening – of about 200,000. 1000 kroner if the working party gets what they want. Why does the Labour Party believe that it is in principle right that one should get a deduction if one is a member of e.g. LO, but not about an e.g. is a member of NITO?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e401	What we are proposing in our alternative budget is a reversal of the change that the government proposed last year, which was adopted in this Chamber. The system until then was that trade union deductions were paid if one was associated with a main association or a trade union established before 1977. That's the system we want to go back to. This means that, for example: NITO will receive trade union deductions. However, when we have a desire to stimulate people to organise themselves in main associations, it is with the background of the front-school model, which has served Norway with great success – it is just reading the conclusions of the Holden Committee. The fact that we have strong associations that can take responsibility for the formation of wages and take responsibility for the effective functioning of tripartite cooperation is an invaluable part of the Norwegian system, the Norwegian model, and an important part of our competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e408	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e411	The objective of a government budget is to facilitate increased value creation and growth and thus provide an improved basis for our welfare society. Of course, it will have to do the tasks that are coming to you, but it will also have to provide a basis for equipping society for the future by allowing more people to get to work, by allowing more people to live on their own income, by making work worthwhile, by saving and investing in jobs and by building a good welfare for the most part. That is the main approach in this budget, not only from the government parties, but also from those with whom we have negotiated and settled. The Norwegian economy continues to have a high level of activity, unemployment is low compared to most other countries, and employment is increasing. We have a good starting point, but there are shadows in the horizon. Oil prices are falling, hopefully temporarily, but there is a lack of employment in industry. The use of oil money in the budget is well adapted to the economic situation. It's worth 17 billion. kr more in 2015 than in 2014, and there is one percentage point lower than the assumption of the action rule. It is a responsible and prudent phase-in of the increased return. It has also been described from professional economists as a responsible fiscal policy and that it is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. The markets have also not responded negatively to the proposal – the currency markets have also weakened and given Norwegian export industry much better conditions, but it also has other reasons. I notice that the Workers' Party, after its massive criticism of our budget, did not find any room in its main contribution to criticising the use of oil money. I take that as a revenue because it is always there that you think it is well adapted – not only the situation that was at the beginning of October, but also the situation that is today when we stand here. The most important thing about the use of oil money is how to align the use, that it is about measures that promote this very value creation that we are talking about and increase the productivity of the economy. That is how we have prioritised it, and that is exactly what was meant when the rule of action was introduced, namely investment in knowledge, school, research, higher education, infrastructure, road, track and growth-promoting tax incentives that can stimulate employment, saving and investment. And this is, as mentioned, highly up-to-date over the last few weeks with decreases in the oil price and with the announced reductions in the petroleum activity. Therefore, it is now necessary to facilitate good conditions for conversion and increased competitiveness, not least because our cost level, despite the deterioration of the Norwegian krona, is not competitive. What is required to create these jobs and to provide this basis for well-being is primarily a competent future workforce in this country. That means, as we do in the budget and as we do in the conciliation, a strong commitment to school, higher education and research. We're not going to be cheapest at any time, I think, our cost level is too high. But we can get smarter, we can get better, we can get faster and better educated than our competitors, and we can get better technology development. This is why the historical promise in the continuing training of teachers is very central. If we are to lift the students' learning in the future, we must raise the teachers' competence today. We need to increase the character requirements, extend teacher training and increase the skills requirements at schools – and we do. What is also required of Norwegian value creators is a better infrastructure. Therefore, the budget represents a strong commitment to trade in all phases: road being built, road being maintained, railway being built and improved, smarter solutions, more efficient processes, earlier and faster planning and not forgetting increased appropriations. At the heart of value creation is access to capital and a competitive tax system. Reductions in the level of taxation increase value creation. It gives more freedom to individuals, stimulates saving and investments in Norwegian jobs at lower taxes on ownership. Substantial increase in funding for industrial research and innovation, tax FUNN, BIA, and seed funds are included. Research and innovation are central to new ideas, new technologies and increased competitiveness. Norwegian ownership, which Marthinsen recently spent a lot of time talking about, is currently discriminated against by the property tax. Non-residents pay no taxes to own in this country, while Norwegian owners of small and large enterprises pay taxes on invested capital in machinery and operating equipment, whether in profit or not. Many Norwegian enterprises have to be capped annually for amounts that could have been used for the development of profitable new jobs instead of paying taxes on unprofitable old jobs. The debate is being turned into a distribution debate. It's not. This is primarily a debate on value creation. Of course, the policy effects of distribution are there, but they are small. There won't be fewer poor people with increased taxes on wealth. Neither will there be fewer wealth, but there will be fewer profitable, new jobs and fewer secure, old jobs. This means that job opportunities are reduced. Being in or out of work is what creates inequalities, not tax statistics. That's why we have to create more jobs, and we do that by stimulating those who are going to set up these jobs. It will then be central to an efficient and unbureaucratic public sector for future value creation. The government and cooperation parties are also taking action through the efficiency and red tape reform. Otherwise in this budget, we have a historic commitment to health: 2 billion. For more patient treatment, several thousand more care centres, demented sites, free treatment options, user-led personal assistance and, in particular, a not forgotten but neglected area, increased drug and mental health interventions. In the justice sector, there are good appropriations. I don't hear any criticism either. The local economy has a real growth of about 1.5 pst. – it’s kind of like it’s been before. There is no disaster in Norwegian municipalities. It's on the even. Priority is always needed. On the climate side it is not that nothing has been done. We're increasing investment in the climate fund, we're continuing the benefits for electric cars and strengthening them for hybrid cars, it's a significant collective effort, and it's an increase in aid. Small-scale power plants, which have worn out for many years to get better tax conditions, get it. It is an international climate action, including: with significant investments to Norfund. There has been a long harvest of negotiations. But the cooperation parties have in the autumn, through this which has taken place in Stortinget and through the conciliation, followed up what we said in Nydalen after the voters thought last autumn they would have a change, that they would replace the sitting government. We have negotiated, openly and with respect for each other, a settlement based precisely on the freedom and trust of each individual, of the family, entrepreneurs, communities and volunteering – this is what was on the wallpaper in the Nydalen, which is set out in the Declaration. Further room has been created for private, local and voluntary initiatives, and not least — respect for and use of knowledge. Knowledge and increased competence give freedom to people, but also, of course, contribute positively to jobs and to economic development and thus strengthen their well-being. In agreement, emphasis has been placed on, in line with the Nydalen Agreement, care and solidarity with weak groups, international solidarity and social responsibility. In particular, it is important that values are created before they can be distributed. Freedom of choice and flexibility for families are central. It's in respect of the individual. Responsible economic policy has been behind the negotiations and the conciliation process. The oil money is to be used precisely for what the chairman of the committee called for, namely for investment in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-enhancing tax incentives to strengthen value creation. All of this was put together by the cooperation parties in the autumn of 2013. I understand that after the negotiations we are at least as strongly united as when the Norwegian people gave us their vote of confidence last September. I therefore take the opportunity to thank you for a long and, let me also say, strong cooperation in these harvest weeks at Stortinget. I believe that the result was good, and I do not believe in the least that it promises well in the future for the development of civil cooperation in Norway and for the joint development of society in line with the electoral mandate we were given.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e452	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e455	The representative Fleet called for criticism of the use of oil money. I would like to remind you that in the 2013 election campaign, Erna Solberg stated that the government of Stoltenberg used less than two out of ten crowns of oil for sustainable growth in the mainland economy. The great oil dependence that Jens Stoltenberg has created in recent years means weakness and vulnerability in the Norwegian economy, she continued to say. The fact that she was then to become the prime minister who used all the opportunities to spend even more oil money is on the verge of awakening. As we heard, both in the supplementary proposition last year, in the new age and in the revision, the temptation became too great. I also note that all the other alternative budgets from the parties on the Stortinget contain less oil money than the government. Can the representative Fleet then tell how many oil crowns are being used incorrectly? Can he also tell us if the share of misuse of oil crowns went up or down with the comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e464	It's probably oil crowns that are still used incorrectly, but it's less than under the red-green government, because we've prioritised the areas that I just spent ten minutes talking about: infrastructure, road, track, what will make it easier for the industry in the districts, school, knowledge, higher education, research and not least growth-promoting tax reliefs, among other things. on taxes on wealth, which facilitate the creation of new jobs, drive old jobs and ensure that people get a job. That's what creates the greatest inequality in society. In the case of the Workers' Party, they increase the cost of increasing taxes and making a significant increase in expenditure, well above 3 pst. There is also something that is not sustainable from a generational perspective, and they do so in their alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e471	With respect to reporting, I have to say that the vast majority of the measures and areas that the fleet here is encroaching on, with one main exception, are spending a lot of money on the Workers' Party. So I have to try to ask the question in another way: can he tell how much money the government is now spending on growth-promoting measures? And not least, what kind of concrete action is now spending more money on than before? I read in the paper that support for Sami and national colleges was two of those measures. It also supports the Workers' Party. Improvements in taxes on wealth are mentioned, but there is no consensus among experts that growth is not particularly accurate. I would like to have other examples of growth promotion. I would also like to challenge the Fleet and hear why they don't define e.g. kindergartens as growth promoters. In the Right Municipality of Rana in Northern Ireland, parents now have to drive their kids to the neighbouring municipality of Hemnes to have kindergarten. Does the Fleet think it's growth-promoting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e482	I perceive that the representative of Berg-Hansen does not think that reductions in property taxes are particularly stimulating. Nor is it true that experts all over the line say that this is the case, as Marianne Marthinsen also said. Let me go back to the newspaper report that was in the VG, where 20 economists say what they think about this. What you don't distinguish is what's a distribution discussion, and what's a value creation discussion. If you go through the answers, you're going to find a completely different picture. To the question of what in this budget is a different bet, and which is a big bet on what the rule of action describes: it is only to go to the considerable Teachers' pledge, which has now been over two budgets. It's just to look at what we're doing with the BIA system and a number of things in industrial research, which not least the research institutions have been very pleased with. I received an e-mail at the latest today expressing my satisfaction with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e489	The representative The fleet used the words “workplaces” and “value creation” many times in its article. We in the Center Party were very surprised when we saw the government's proposal for a budget, for one of the largest employers in Norway is Norwegian goods trading, with approx. 370000 workers. When the right now has the opportunity to stimulate Norwegian trade in goods, the first thing to do is to stimulate foreign trade in goods by proposing to raise the VAT limit to 500 kroner – that is, to subsidise all those who shop online at online online online online online shops and to punish everyone in Norwegian retail trade, who has to pay full Norwegian VAT from the first krona. Why did the Right do this without an impact assessment? Can the fleet today say that it was a mistake, and that you want to go back on that policy, or will the Right still feel that it was right to raise the limit to 500 kroner, even though both Works, NHO, Stormberg, Complete.no and everyone in the trade in goods warned against this strongly and said that it could put tens of thousands of jobs at risk?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e496	It depends a little bit on whether you ask me if I still mean what was in the budget, or what we've agreed with the other parties, which is a limit of 350 kroner, which I think could be more adapted. The Social Violence Vedum forgets is that this also has a consumer perspective. A lot of people act online. We had the old $200 limit. Now we've got a 350-kroner limit, which includes shipping and shipping costs. There's a very small difference, and I don't think it's going to play a very big role in Norwegian trade if this limit is introduced. What plays a major role in Norwegian trade in goods is competition between online trade and trade in goods. It's there, has been there for years and will come too full. It's a significant challenge for the retail trade and trade that we can't do anything about beyond setting the limit here or there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e503	When I travel around Norway and meet business people, it is striking that more and more people say that they do not understand the new business policy of the Right. Here, there is a great deal of effort to reduce taxes on wealth, which has a very limited effect on creating new entrepreneurial developments. One has a big cut in the rules of the permit, which is precisely for the purpose of retaining competence in Norway. This will cut into - for periods when the industry has no order in the book. There are major cuts in regional development, which will facilitate joint, large-scale efforts. One did not propose new seed funds in regions that scream for capital. And when it comes to the Copernicus programme: What in the world was it for a bet – in an area where Norway is actually world-leaving? My question to the representative is – and here we could frame many more things: How does the fleet defend these cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e510	To take just a few of them: I want to return to the property tax, because I understand that the representative is now talking to the industry, and that it doesn't seem that it contributes to investing in new jobs. I think you make a very selective selection of business – when you get that kind of answer. To regional development funds: yes, we have reduced them, but there are questions about how to spend money. We've increased our traffic budgets, we're building roads in the districts. The business community tells us – when we visit them – that transportation is very central. One thing is to run the businesses in the districts, but you also have to have the fish out, have the timber out – you have to have the products out – and then you need roads. This is something that is constantly affecting, not selectively, on the basis of how public authorities handle development funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e517	Had it been such that one transferred the same cut for road construction, it would have been okay – it would have been a real priority. But you don't. One cuts much more in regional development than one in the trade rate. So it's okay. Then it's the property tax. We know that 40 pst. of all Norwegian assets in this region. This means that the challenges of capital in other regions are even greater. When the government proposes not to continue the escalation of seed funds in the rest of the country, in which the whole Storting has been united – a cutback in the effort to raise these regions through the regional development funds – it just becomes more and more incomprehensible to people around me that I have been in contact with, what is the real business policy of the Right. Is it so that there are the richest people who are going to pay attention to this, or is it a matter of making value? So my question remains: what is the objective of the industrial policy of the Right – when one implements these measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e524	The aim of our industrial policy is to establish as many new jobs as possible — and to maintain existing ones — across the country. Let me take the opportunity to address just what the representative had to say, namely that 40 pst. of those with large assets located in this area. It doesn't matter where the taxpayers are. What matters is where your money is spent. You can probably set up lists of addresses in this city and in other prosperous areas of the East to find out where the money is – but they don’t. They are located in the districts, in the fishing nets, in the woods — in very many places where they have invested their money to create new jobs. That's the ratio you forget when you make statistics and say that's where the wealth lies. No, it's not here, it's where it's invested in jobs. Riches are jobs – for those who own them, and for those who work there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e534	Right went to the elections on an uplifting promise of a greener policy than the red-greens were able to deliver, and the Greens had expected what we would get on the budget side from the blues, similar to what the Greens deliver: a truly large-scale commitment to a new green business life, real choices in favour of collective action and in disfavor of the road, real choices in cutting down oil money use, real choices in transferring framework conditions from oil to new green business. Instead, we have a budget that is marked by even more oil money, even more oil wagering, even more investment on the road than on the road on a collective basis. Can the representative explain in what way such a budget is greener than other budgets and previous budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e541	What I can explain is that when the representative Hansson believes that our budget and the budget before us are to be similar to the budget of the Greens, he must lubricate with patience. Looking at the totality of the Budget of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European We're going a completely different way. We go forward responsibly, and some people might say that we are moving forward slowly when it comes to the green shift, but things are changing. There is no doubt that we have added more money to the Climate Fund, we have done something about the benefits of the electric cars, which are continuing, we have strengthened them for hybrid cars, we have in the agreement moved additional money from the way across the track, we have a significant increase in aid through Enova, and the small power plants – that is green – we have given better tax conditions. There are a number of relationships for which we have a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e548	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e551	Night to Friday, November 21, after 17 days of negotiations, just before 5:30 in the morning, the four cooperation parties became a few about next year's government budget. In the media, the impression has sometimes been that there have been strong fronts and a lot of disunity during these negotiations. Unethnicity has of course been, but unlike under the red-green government, the difficult things have been solved this time on the Stortinget and not in the government premises. This has meant that party political disunity has become easier to see now under a minority rule than when we had a plural government. I think there was at least as much disunity between the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, but since the disunity was found in the government premises, it was not known in the media, so it looked like a quieter budgetary process. Anyway, today's this story. What matters today is that we have an agreement on a government budget – the state budget 2015 – and that we have received a fantastic budget that points in a different direction from that of the previous government. The State budget 2015 is a budget that solves important tasks today and that equips Norway for the future. We in the Progress Party are very pleased about that. We live in a very uncertain world. Large parts of the world economy wear. The greatest uncertainty may be when it comes to developments in Asia. In Europe, things are getting boring. Norway has for a long time enjoyed good economic growth in Europe, because we have been surfing an oil price that has our record high for many years. The oil price is as well known in the free fall and is now actually below $70 barrel. There is something that creates considerable uncertainty and major challenges in the future. This means that the need for growth-promoting tax incentives, investment in infrastructure for future and red tape and simplification are more important than ever before. This budget takes important steps to improve Norwegian competitiveness and secure Norwegian jobs. For eight years, under the red-green regime, Norwegian competitiveness was weakened, and productivity developed weaker than wage costs. That, of course, makes us vulnerable to falls in oil prices and vulnerable to relapses in the world economy. Fortunately, there are today several figures for a budget that makes Norwegian competitiveness and Norway more robust for the future, and that is very important. The budget contains tax and tax credits of 5.2 billion. Of course, it comes in addition to the current year's tax credits that are passed on to 2015. That is what we do to ensure Norwegian competitiveness, to secure Norwegian jobs and to give the individual more freedom and well-being, because one gets to keep more of his own money. A large part of the tax burden is a reduction in the peculiar wealth tax. It is important because the wealth tax provides Norwegian-owned jobs with a competitive disadvantage in relation to jobs owned from abroad. This means that Norwegian owners, unlike foreign owners, have to take money from companies to pay taxes on wealth. So when you take money out of businesses, there's less money left in companies to pay wages, to invest for future jobs and to secure Norwegian jobs. The budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's budget's been cut to secure Norwegian jobs. The cut in car-related taxes is also a priority in this budget. Re-registration is significantly cheaper. The entry fee for motorcycles and snowmobiles is markedly reduced. Hybrid cars also become more spacious. The annual fee on the caravan will be removed, and the petrol and diesel charges will not be adjusted. These benefits will be positive for both private and business. It will strengthen competitiveness. It will probably have more to say in District Norway than in the big cities because one is more dependent on the car as a means of arriving in District Norway than in the central parts of the big cities. As in the State budget for 2014, the state budget for 2015 is also a record budget when it comes to infrastructure investment. Never before has so much investment been made in roads and paths as will be invested next year. It means much more roads, it means better roads, and it also means a historical investment on the road, which in turn means lower transport costs for both businesses and individuals. The State budget also provides clear guidance for red tape and simplification, and it is important that the large sums of money are now to be spent on growth-promoting measures and good services for citizens, not on bureaucracy and detail management. Debureaucratisation and simplification are important to strengthen competition and make Norway more robust for the future. Of course, it is a comprehensive and long process that the government has provided – and still delivers. This budget, too,is designed to debureaucratic and simplify. A red tape reform is being implemented, requiring government enterprises to increase their annual efficiency of 0.6pst. This is something that the OECD has recommended Norway to do, and there is also something that several OECD countries have already introduced. Although this requirement for efficiency is much less than the more efficient many private enterprises need to survive each year, this is nevertheless an important contribution to getting the most well-being for each taxpayer. The health cows in Norway were longer under the previous government. In this budget, health has been strengthened so that more people can be treated in a timely manner. Crime has developed into a major problem. That is why I am pleased that the justice sector is prioritised as strongly as he is in this setting. This budget means more money for the fight against crime. This is a budget that is well adapted to the challenges we face, and a budget that also equips Norway for the future. We have to be quite clear that the oil price can fall further, that it can lie at a very low level for a long time, and we also have to be prepared to prevent the world economy from falling further. This means, of course, that we need to strengthen competitiveness. We still need to renew and improve, and we also need to be banned from doing so unexpectedly. The most likely challenge we are facing now is to provide a good basis for growth, value creation and employment. Very much indicates — including the last days of falling oil prices — that the fight for good and safe jobs is becoming very important and perhaps the most important challenge in the years to come. This is a budget with a new direction, which has clear priorities, and which is well suited to the challenges we face. This is a budget that strengthens competitiveness and guarantees well-being in both the short and the long term. This is a budget that facilitates a simpler everyday life for most people. That's why this is a good day. It's a good day for the government party Progress Party and Right. It is also a good day for the Christian People's Party and the Left, with which we have negotiated and obtained a very good budgetary settlement. Last but not least, this is a very good day for Norwegian competitiveness and well-being, for Norway and for the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e601	‘The dissatisfaction of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV is not in any way surprising or disappointing. It confirms on the contrary that we are on the right track." This was the statement by the representative, Mr Hagesetter, on the state budget. But it wasn't just the Workers' Party that thought it was a bad idea to take from the poor and give to the rich. Mia Utheim Simonsen, who, according to his own statement, has always voted for the Progress Party, says this: "If I had known what FrP stood for, I would never have voted for them in the world." That the Progress Party is now under 10 p.m., may indicate that more people think the same thing, and there are probably many who don't recognize their own party. We wonder if the Progress Party could have put forward such an unsocial budget while Carl I. Hagen and John Alvheim were still sitting on the Stortinget. I want to ask the representative: what should the Party of Advancement say to them, to these voters who are now wondering – fortunately we have a Christian People's Party, which can keep us a little in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e610	This government has a completely different course from that of the previous government. The previous government increases taxes and taxes. This government reduces taxes and taxes. So a lot of the taxes are taxes on wealth, and one can't cut taxes on wealth and give it a social profile. However, the reason we still cut taxes on wealth is that he is strange, and that the owners of Norwegian enterprises – also central to the Labour Party – have to make exchange payments from his enterprises in order to pay the property tax. And that means that there'll be less money left in companies to pay wages, to invest for the future and to secure jobs. It's the workplaces we're occupied with, and we're going to be occupied with securing the future, and that's why we have such a profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e615	It's interesting that Hageseter now admits that you can't give these tax cuts a social profile, because in the budget, the Progress Party has claimed to have had a positive impact on most people in a number of areas. They've said that they'll give relief to ordinary people, but we who've read the budget, see that the relief to people is mostly eaten up by intrusions in other areas. Tax rates for ordinary people – which, according to Jan Arild Ellingsen, are those who make 400,000 kroner – are eaten up by increased costs for the same group to kindergarten. They actually have to pay NOK 1000 more for kindergarten than they get in tax dollars. Those who have really earned that the Progress Party has been in government are the ones who have the most, and if it hadn't been for the Christian People's Party and the Left to check the rate of wealth tax a little down in the equation, people with the most had got even more. It would have been tempting to ask the Progress Party now if they will get a new logo, but I hesitate to ask how they could defend a budget against these voters that gave so much to so few, and so little to so many?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e622	Most people come out better in this budget. All income groups receive tax relief. In addition, there is an extensive tax haven that then plays the most important role and means most for those who have the least to travel with. For the rich, the fees don't mean that much. When we reduce the re-registration fee, car charges, fuel charges, fees in a number of areas, it is those who have the least to travel with, that comes out best. Then we have a cut in the property tax. That's because most people have a job, and for them to have a safe job, we can't have any strange fees that will go beyond the workplace. It is then that when corporate owners receive taxes on wealth, they are also the rich. If we had found out that it was going to give tax relief to poor company owners, it would of course be good, but that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e629	Before the election, the Progress Party thought it was smarter to abolish tolls, and in the budget statement we were told that tolls should now start to be collected smarter – a new speech. Another thing the Progress Party had as its main concern was the state funding of the care of the elderly. When we then started to read the budget and were going to find this item again, it said that it is proposed 20 million. kr in 2015 for an investigation project to provide the basis for a trial of state funding of care services. So we need to figure out what kind of tests are going to be carried out, and then we need to evaluate it. The outcome is uncertain, and it's set at 20 million. kr to it. Where is the power of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e635	This arrangement is very important in order to get this in place in a proper way. Nothing has happened to this under the red-green government, despite the fact that it is a great wish from many municipalities that one should receive government funding for the care of the elderly. This is why we show our action and start an experiment that we hope will produce such a good result that it can be carried out on a full scale within not too long. When it comes to tolls, we got 16.3 pst. In the run-up, but despite this, we have been able to see that more toll projects have not been implemented. In this state budget, we have also cut car-related charges of almost 2 billion. kr. It's historic, and most people who have cars can enjoy it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e642	There's a new definition of the action force Gjermund Hageseter comes with here. There is no attempt in this year's government budget to launch an investigation project into a possible trial. Twenty million. kr is not action, but the opposite. The training force is called this type of vocabulary in a department. The amazing thing is that when Gjermund Hagesetter was in opposition, he was very indignant about the tax failure of the municipalities, which was then 2.2 billion. DKK in 2004. The reason that Hageseter was indignant, together with the then representative Siv Jensen and Per Sandberg, was that it was going to hit the country's elderly and young people. For this reason, the Progress Party forced through in the new age of 2.2 billion. kr more to the municipal sector. What is the difference now between 2004 and 2004? It's going to hit the oldest that we now have a solid tax deficit of maybe up to 3 billion. kr in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e649	When it comes to government-funded care for the elderly, at least the government party and the Progress Party show far more power than the Center Party showed when they were in government, because they did nothing about it, and this is an important matter. The municipalities get a solid rise to the next year. You get a real lift, which allows you to get more and better services. In addition to this, a set of works has a red tape and simplification in many areas, for example, when it comes to planning and building law, where municipalities today use a lot of annual work to fight with county councils, and they use a lot of resources because it takes a long time to deal with matters under the Planning and Building Act. So there are some simplifications that allow you to focus your money on the local authorities for better services, not on bureaucracy and administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e656	As far as the social profile is concerned, even SV proposes significantly greater tax cuts to people with low and ordinary incomes than the Progress Party does in this budget. We can do that just because we don't have to pay billions in savings tax. Now there are many who are dissatisfied with the social profile of the state budget. Most people are dissatisfied with the social profile of the state budget. Central FrPs have resigned from the party in protest against the social profile of the state budget. A total cut from the lay-off scheme for workers in industry is provided for the organisation of recruitment of job seekers with reduced working capacity. It is cut in the benefit of child care for lone dependants, it is cut in the provision of health care measures – it is cut even in the tomb assistance. Can Gjermund Hagesetter with an honest face stand here in the hall and say that he is satisfied with the social profile of the First State Budget of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e665	I can do that. I'm very, very happy with the social profile in this budget. This is the best budget Norway has ever had. We've managed to give tax credits to all income groups. We also have solid tax breaks. We are right enough after negotiations also some tax reinforcements, but overall, there are solid tax breaks – only on a car, they are almost 2 billion. kr. In the case of the alternative State budget of SV, an electricity charge is increasing considerably more than what is also involved in the conciliation – with more ears. One also increases the fees in a lot of areas. What SV does not take inwards is that there are those who have the least to walk with, who get the most load when an increase in fees – it's not the richest ones, it's the ones at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e672	It's mostly taken over by SV, and that's exactly why we're giving significantly bigger tax cuts to people with normal and low incomes than the Progress Party is doing. It gives us room to increase environmental taxes without people losing most money on it. A normal family with normal income comes out in plus, even with the increases in environmental taxes we have. That calculation does not go up for the Progress Party, which introduces a strange fee, the bag tax, which eats up the tax cut to the people most. Is it really that Gjermund Hageseter believes that 3 billion? kr in tax cuts to the richest people in the country has been more important this year than making sure that most people who do a good day's work are left with a little more cake in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e679	When it comes to the issue of whether we have cut taxes on wealth, I have explained earlier: it is to secure and secure the Norwegian jobs. The property tax is a peculiar tax that foreign owners avoid. It's very important to ensure good employment in the future. When it comes to the alternative government budget of SV, it is true that it contains some easier for most groups, at least those with the lowest income, but it also contains significant tax cuts. So when it comes to this bag tax, it didn't come up with that proposal from the Progress Party. But in negotiations we have to give and take, and so we did not manage to prevent fees on both bags and bags. The reason why we accepted this was because the option was worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e688	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e691	That there is a secret record of a bag charge, we have not yet received it. But it's often a bag post. Norway’s great success has been that we are a country with small differences between people and that we have used all of Norway — with the great values it has given. But a society of small differences does not come about by itself. In Norway, we have had a will for redistribution, we have actively used the policy, and we have a settlement around the country. We have used policy instruments to stimulate value creation and the long-term management of our diverse natural resources – of our diverse country. With the dramatic fall in the price of oil, there's a lot of uncertainty about the year we're going into. Estimates underlying the budget are also very uncertain. That's why we were in the Center Party when you came up with the budget agreement, a little surprised that you just took the estimates that gave a plus bill and didn't take over the oil price drop. But that's the reason, and we'll probably get back to it. The general budget option of the Centre Party is a proposal for living towns, green cities and small differences. The government's proposal is the opposite. It is a proposal for greater differences, socially and geographically. There is one thing that has been the main priority, and that is the relief of the property tax. The way the cuts are arranged, hits the Right Nuclear Choirs, who live in the largest houses in the best urban areas of the largest cities. But does it add value? We don't mean that. We in the Center Party have a completely different focus on our budget. We want to improve depreciation rates for the transport sector. We want to bet on the industry and give them better depreciation rates. We want those who work in fisheries and agriculture to be less taxed. We want VAT rules adapted to the needs of the industry, not just to think unilaterally and briefly about what will benefit consumers tomorrow. For in the long term it is wise that we have a living and good trade in goods in Norway. That's why we're not involved in the populist changes in the value added tax threshold. We want to continue it at NOK 200. We want to have lower fees for the food industry, which is one of the country's heaviest continental industries. We will provide more funds for increased value creation in the marine sector, so that we not only become a commodity exporter but also have further processing of raw materials in Norway. We have a heavy forest package so we're going to use the resources we have there and the opportunities that the industry offers. We want to introduce a ROT deduction. It's a heavy bet. It's not like we want a tax incentive for more housing uplifting, but it's to strengthen the serious part of the construction industry, so we get to do the whitewashing of that industry. We believe that in the long term we will benefit from it also in tax terms. We have an active industrial policy, not a passive industrial policy – a major difference between the policies of the government and the policies we adopt. Then we find it disappointing that the Progress Party does not get a better social commitment with what this budget provides for opportunities. That's 41 billion. kr more in oil money in this budget than was provided when the Senterpartiet was in government last year. Nevertheless, the increase in investment on the road and traffic is only 5 billion. kr. We had an increase of 6.3 billion. kr. That is why we are proposing 2.7 billion in our alternative budget. More on transport measures for both road, rail, broadband and ports – building the country is also about building infrastructure. The main distribution measure in the budget is point No. 1, to have a completely different tax profile from that of the government. The second is to have a much heavier stake in the municipal sector. Because with the tax failure we now see in the municipalities, there will be many welfare cuts for care, care, school and the youngest of the year to come. That's why we're going to give 2.5 billion. kr more to the municipalities than proposed by the government. The oldest and the youngest can be the great budgetary apes of the year. There is only one promise that has really been prioritised by the government, and that is the Right's promise of great tax relief to a few. Those with over 2 million. During these two years, income has received more than NOK 60000 in tax reliefs. But the things of the Progress Party must have been forgotten, because from abolishing tolls, the new slogan is now smarter tolls. From the state funding of care for the elderly, a 20-million trial has now been investigated. kr. From 45 B.C.E. kr more annually in the transport plan is now lower than the red-green government provided. It's a big disappointment. I would like to address our proposals on behalf of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e714	The representative, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e719	We have heard a debate in which the main feature of the Workers' Party was almost chemically free of value creation and of how we create jobs. The leader of the centre party was concerned that we are in an uncertain situation, and the centre party has used to be responsible for creating values before they are distributed, and that value creation around the country is important. Then I am amazed that you do not see past Holmenkollen towards the rest-retorium, which marked the debate on property taxes. The central party reverses most of the property taxes to the government and makes the property tax a mere tax on Norwegian ownership. The question of Battle Violence Vedum is: When did the Central Party lose faith that local ownership is important for the creation of value around the country, and when did they find the belief that foreign and state ownership is so much better for value creation throughout District Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e729	If you look at the proposal of the Center Party, you will see that there are many tax measures to strengthen Norwegian business and Norwegian domestic industry, so we have prioritised different things from what the Right has done. The right has actually done one priority, and that is relief in wealth taxes, while we have done many targeted priorities, for example. removing the profit tax on the sale of land and forest, which we believe can be a wise move to increase turnover there, for example. that we improve the depreciation rate for the industry, which enables us to create more profitability in the Norwegian mainland industry, and for example. that we improve the depreciation rates for the transport sector, which is highly dependent on Hedmark and on which large parts of the Norwegian mainland industry depend. So we've chosen a different approach and used the tax credits much more specifically to hit different parts of the business. We don't believe that such a passive input as the government has chosen is what will give the most value creation in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e738	But that's not what I asked. I asked about the local ownership. To be completely concrete in my challenge, the Østerdalen is an area that is not exactly central to Norway, and that both Battle violence Vedum and I are happy about. In an industrial building in the Østerdalen, technical value is often far above market value, and property value is far beyond what can be expected to be realised from it. The center part screws to the tax screw strongly on the type of investment. In addition, these investments are made in an area where the risk is higher and the requirement for equity financing is much higher. My question to Battle Violence Vedum is: What does he say to those who want to invest in the necessary infrastructure around the District-Norway, when the Senter Party so strongly signals that anyone who does so will receive an extra penalty tax from the Senter Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e747	I do not agree with the reality description of Gunnar Gundersen in terms of our tax arrangements. When you look at our tax system, a state like Hedmark will get very good out of it. Those who feed in Hedmark will get very good at the tax relief we have, so it's going to be more profitable and safer to invest in Hedmark than with the Right Order. The problem in Hedmark is that there is too little wealth, not too many. So we have to make sure to build up business that makes more make money and get money in our county. Because it's a good thing for a society that people make money, it's a good thing that people want to invest in businesses. But we have to have a tax system that makes everyone contribute, because it's a spice layer. Of course, everyone thinks that paying taxes is a burden, but everyone has to contribute to enabling us to operate with school, care and care, hospitals, have an active distribution policy and at the same time have an active transport policy. We have created a tax package that will hit businesses much more specifically, with direct tax credits at the stages you need – when you invest and when you put money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e756	The Central Party proposes in its alternative budget a financial tax of 7 billion. kr on an annual basis. This special tax shall be for a total of 20,5 pst. by the employer basis and 5 pst. in addition to normal taxes on profits and salaries. Because of the facility, foreign-owned banks and financial undertakings will largely escape. The new state-of-the-art financial taxes will be brought to the top of new capital requirements. The Norwegian savings banks and financial industries will have no alternative but to send the bill to their customers. How does the Centre view the new financial tax as a means of relieving the competitiveness of Norwegian banks and financial companies – and in particular young people at the start-up stage – at high interest rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e761	This is not a strange debate. After the financial crisis in 2008, there has been a debate in many countries on how to achieve a better balance between the financial sector and other parts of the mainland economy. The reason for this was that the Financial Crisis Committee made a recommendation that it should tax that part of the economy harder. For today they have a tax exemption to exempt them from VAT, there is a large subsidy of the financial industry today of about approx. 8 B.C.E. kr. The question is, is that the part of the business we need to subsidize the most? We in the Center Party don't think so, so we have taken in that tax subsidy, and given the tax credits to other parts of the business, which gives concrete value creation, to get more balance in a country's economy. Iceland has introduced a financial tax, Denmark has a financial tax, even Switzerland has a transaction tax, so there are many countries around Europe that have different tax models for the financial industry. I think it is important that we also dare to take a debate on it in Norway – when we now go into the discussion about the Scheel Committee – and we point out a direction here, and look forward to further debate in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e768	The farmer's manager says the following about the budget, and I quote: ‘To achieve the Biggest objective of environmentally friendly, sustainable and forward-looking agriculture, we need knowledge, solutions and policy instruments. This budget makes us better able to do so'. Quote ended. Does the Centre Party agree with this opinion?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e778	The Christian People's Party has had an impact on early school effort, and what you learn from school is not to say "sit out" when the sentence is not over. For the sentence: ‘This budget enables us to do better than the proposal presented by the Government Parties.’ That's the quote. It's a little important -- when you make that kind of statement -- that you read the whole quote, not just parts of the quote. I fully agree that the Christian People's Party was better than what the government proposed. But we can't have the ambition that reversing the cut is a bet. Because that was what the Christian People's Party was able to do: reverse some cuts – I'm glad – but there is no offensive, new bet. So later when you quote, you have to be decent and real, and read the whole, and find out what the Farmer actually said, and they said it was good that the Christian People's Party corrected the mistakes that the government had made. But as center parties, we have to have greater ambitions than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e788	Although the Center Party has many expenditure posts supported by the Left, it is on the containment page to some significant distance. Among other things, the Centre Party, as has just been referred to, will introduce a tax tightening for the financial industry of 7 billion. kr, costs that naturally will be passed on to consumers. Anyone who spends more than 350,000 dollars a year gets more in tax, and last, but not least cuts the centripart of 2.5 billion. kr in the EEA quota, a cut-off centre lot may not be possible to implement. In particular, the last, given that the centre party is also the most keen party in this room to have a national beggar ban imposed. One of the basics of the Center Party is to help people in the countries they come from. The question is, how does it depend on helping people in the countries they come from, along with cutting 2.5 billion? Do you have any permissions that essentially go to the same countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e797	When I was in government, we received an evaluation of the EEA funds from the National Audit Office, which looked at the impact of the EEA funds. It pointed out that the effect on social or graphic cohesion was very uncertain and that there was no targeted instrument. In 2013, less was used than the amount proposed. So it's really not a cut, but it's a cut compared to what's suggested, because it's been held back in recent years. Then we in Stortinget should discuss developments with ever-increasing EEA funds. It's going to be a balanced agreement, where we're going to be involved and fund the common institutions, but now it's becoming more and more a means of pushing us for more money every year. Before Christmas, the EU’s own Member States have cut their allocations to the EU’s common bodies, and it is unreasonable that we in Norway should increase when all other countries cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e804	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e807	16 000 B.C.E. kr: This is the price tag of the German collection after the fall of the wall. It's a formidable amount, but a use of money that most people today think was well invested money. It also provides some important perspectives for the debate we have today. Often it takes a lot to do the right thing. But the gain can be even greater. It's about will and boldness. And even though Norway's purely fiscal policy is more fortunate than most, we also face some major challenges. The environmental and climate challenges must be addressed. 2020 is just over five years away. We don't have a responsibility and obligations when, if we don't do them right and important in the next two or three years. We're in a hurry. Too many people are outside the ordinary working life. If we're going to close down doing something about it, we're going to have to do a wide range of actions - not just stare at what hasn't worked in the last decade. The number of children living in poverty is constantly too high – a common bad conscience. There must be real will for real redistribution to close by reducing the number of poor in the years to come. Left says it outright: Those of us who have the best have to get a little less of the resources of the community, so that those who are the worse off get more and so get it better. Norwegian businesses, entrepreneurs and innovators are struggling with investment droughts. The availability of risk capital is almost absent in the most risky phases. Necessary innovation and development must be stimulated and rewarded, even if it means tax relief to the richest in the SSB’s complex calculation models. These are the challenges that were at the heart of the Left both in the preparation of our own draft budget for 2015, which is the most important one in today's Chamber, and in the work on the budgetary agreement we have concluded with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, and which we vote in favour of. Of course, there is much left in the draft government budget submitted on 8 October. Several issues that we have also been fighting for for for several years now become realities that follow from that proposal, the cooperation agreement and the budget agreement last year. These matters include: continuing training of teachers, an independent business council, strengthening research efforts, increasing rail licensing, increasing business start-ups under Innovation Norway, etc. The important work on improving the efficiency and simplification of the public sector, including: is positive through neutral VAT and an efficiency reform. The left would have liked the government to go further in all of these areas, but the direction is certainly right. Then there were some areas where both the Left and a number of other actors have presented our critical criticisms to the government's draft budget: The combined climate and environmental effort is better than the red-green ever, but equally full of bad. The social profile was not good enough. This was the case for both the tax system, a lack of real poverty and a range of unsocial cuts, both for single caregivers, destitute asylum seekers and refugees. There is also a lack of measures to facilitate business innovation. And the budget was expansive across the board, after the Left's view. The left's draft budget for 2015 is an important step in these areas and is well adapted to the challenges we face, both nationally and internationally. In our draft budget, we propose a total environmental and climate action of 4.2 billion. kr, where there is a monthly investment in public transport and environmentally friendly transport solutions of a total of 2,5 billion. kr. We're proposing a 13.3 billion green tax change. kr, a tax regime with a completely different and better social profile when it relates to the ease and taxation of wage income and wealth, and a targeted tax policy to stimulate innovation and entrepreneurial activity. The line to the left leads to a net tax tightening of 3.7 billion. Compared to the government's proposal, but a tax bill of 3.3 billion. Compared to 2014. We propose a comprehensive poverty effort, with a wide range of measures, of 2.5 billion. kr. In addition, the aid to the world's poor will be increased, corresponding to 1 pst. of GNI. We're proposing a commitment to school, education and research of about three and a half billion. kr, where the increase in research effort is approximately 1,15 billion. kr, and training of more than 420 million teachers. kr. We propose measures to strengthen the Norwegian industry and the mainland industry and to counteract the two-way division of the economy of 6.3 billion. kr. In addition, we propose a commitment to quality in kindergartens, a lower price for children in low-income families, and several kindergartens in total approximately. 1 billion. kr. We propose to strengthen the municipal economy with approximately SEK 1.8 billion and a commitment to prevention and public health of about 1 billion. kr. Last, but not least, we suggest a three billion-billion-dollar oil use. kr lower than the government's estimate. The objective is the budgetary agreement concluded by the Left with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, many and important steps in the right direction. On all areas that the Left prioritizes, there are monthly improvements. Together, we are strengthening the social profile and the poverty effort by nearly 2 billion. kr, my permission is 1 billion. kr more for school, education and innovation, and there will be an increased investment in climate and environment of nearly 2 billion. kr. We can say with a reasonable degree of certainty that the combined Norwegian CO2 emissions will fall as a result of the budget adopted today. Only the blending requirement adopted for biofuels is expected to reduce the Norwegian climate emissions by 200000 tonnes. In addition, cheaper hybrid cars will come, greater investment in rail and public transport and an emerging green tax regime. As a result, climate change emissions from transport are falling. Several issues that Left has been close to itself in recent years are now becoming a reality: Self-employed persons receive final equal rights in respect of care and care. We increase the rights to free core time in kindergartens for 4–5 years, so that almost all children from low-income families can have the opportunity. Childcare is differentiated for all children from low-income families. And Norway accepts 500 more quota refugees. For all the years under the red-green regime, the left has proposed it. Today there will be many for it – contrary to all doomsday prophecies. I have chosen to use the article to explain the main actions of the Left's Alternative State Budget and the result of the budgetary agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party – not to discuss the draft budgets for the others. These are clearly good proposals in all the others' alternative budgets, which are supported by the Left in isolation. However, as many claim, it is not that the Left could gain much more by cooperating with the opposition. It is true that we agree on many additions on the expenditure side, but we are partly fundamentally disputed about the discovery and financing of the additions. Where the Left covers bets through re-priorities, the other parties mainly cover the cost increases through increased taxes – especially taxes on Norwegian business. To put it this way: I don't see this as an open invitation to get through with Left. Despite the monthly increase in spending on the areas most important for the Left – environment, climate, combating poverty, education, research, business and innovation – the Left will be less expansive than the government's proposals and the other parties' proposals, through a combination of less oil money and the tax package. We also show that it is fully possible to invest in well-being while providing targeted tax credits. There is no automatic conflict between these sizes, which I will probably hear over and over again from the previous government parties in the debate today. It is a matter of willingness to give priority to the important rather than the unimportant. Finally, I take up the Left suggestion in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e874	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e879	I want to start by congratulating the Left. You've done a gray budget somewhat light green, but there's this shade of green in the budget I want to ask about. In the hours after the consensus, a very green tax shift sprang. It's not sure how green this really is, because you had to swallow a heavy diesel and gasoline camel on the road. If we read the equation, we see that the green tax change is 1.9 billion. kr. Of that, the bag fee counts a total of 1 billion. So it's going to be over half. If the bag tax is not green, then the green tax change, from 13 billion. kr in the alternative budget of the Left, down to less than 1 billion. kr, which is in addition much less than the relief you have accepted on petrol and diesel. My question is whether the left is standing at 1 billion. NOK in the bag tax is part of the green tax change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e888	Thank you first. The bag fee is a combination of a green fee and a pure tax. There are very many taxes and taxes. In the left's alternative state budget, we had a bag tax, but then in a much larger and more extensive context. As I said just now in my main post, we're going to call for a green tax return of 13 billion. kr, which means that, after the Left's tax treatment, all come out with net tax reliefs of NOK 2000 to NOK 3000. Everyone will focus on the kind of tax scheme proposed by the Left, and those who make the green choice in everyday life will tend even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e895	I am not quite sure what the left still thinks about this bag charge, whether it is green or not. One speaks of a combination, but the signals from the trade union environment are clear: the plastic bag tax has no environmental impact, it is perceived that it is introduced only to keep a cut in the wealth tax of the richest. But I'm going to invite the Left to rescue itself: VG reported last week that Kiwi from March is planning to replace all fossil plastic bags with environmentally friendly bio bags. The Kiwi manager says he is uncertain whether he can continue this development towards more environmentally friendly bags after the introduction of this fee that Left has been involved. The Ministry of Finance will not answer if bio bags are also charged. That is why I would challenge the Left: can the representative Breivik guarantee today that someone will protect bio bags from the fee you are adopting today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e900	Of course, I can't give a guarantee, but I can say with a lot of pundus that this will be part of the follow-up that the government has to do in the wake of the budget agreement, that a difference between bio bags and traditional plastic bags. We also have a verbal proposal now in the budget agreement that one should look at the same problem in relation to bottles and the production of bottles for that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e905	The left is engaged in private business and tends to be a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises. It's very good, these companies are, as you know, very busy with the property tax. Organisations such as the Working Party, the NHO and even the Norwegian League of Bonds are the same. With different words and different emphasis, all these actors agree that there is a need to do something about the property tax. The left states in its budget option that the wealth tax is a ‘congestion for parts of the economy’, and further, ‘In the long term, the entire wealth tax should be removed’. However, in its 2015 draft State budget, the Left only proposed to increase the bottom-up tax – no reduction in the rate. Now the excellent budgetary agreement with the government parties ended well, but my question is: how can the wealth tax be removed in the long term, as the Left says they will, without at some point removing the rate itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e910	Thank you for the question. The tax on wealth is a good example of the fact that we have four bourgeois parties agreeing on the objective, i.e. that the tax on wealth must be reduced and removed in the long term. It is also correct, as the representative Hille refers to from the program – the left has a different model from the one proposed by the government. We have a model that increases the bottom subtraction – which gives a much better social profile and will hit far more small businesses than if one goes one-sided on the rate – but combined with reintroducing tax rebates on axles.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e915	In the field of industrial policy, the left has had a certain preventive effect on the most anti-business proposals of the Right Party Government. Many cuts are reversed, and I notice that one has managed to halve the original cut of tourism through Innovation Norway. It is good that you have achieved something there. So the representative says that the Left prioritizes the important over the unimportant. Then it's a little shocking to see that one of the industries left is massively attacking is the maritime industry, which has a value creation of about 160 billion. kr, and employing 100 000 people in Norway. One goes in and over the night with a pennetræk kutter the entire net pay scheme of 1.5 billion. kr. There is a close link between the competence of seafarers and our maritime industry. Doesn't the Left see the problem of taking such a grip overnight?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e922	The net pay system caters for an industry with significant surpluses. It is also a system that causes others who feed at sea — fishermen, etc. – labor by compensating for the level of pay because it has a distorting effect on competition. The left has said the same thing in very many alternative state budgets: that the net pay system must be abolished primarily, or that the scheme should be extended to cover others who are drifting at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e927	One year ago I was in a line challenged by the representative Breivik about oil money. Now, one year later, we have the phase: SV is in favour of a significantly lower use of oil than Left does both in its alternative state budget and not least in the agreement of which the Left is part. It is important to reduce Norway’s dependence on oil money, firstly because it is not sustainable to shift the government’s tax cuts to future generations, and also because it is not environmentally sustainable in the long term. We want a good welfare state regardless of whether we have oil or not. My question to the Left is: how can the Left criticise other parties for the use of oil money when they themselves fail to prioritise this when they actually have political power?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e934	First, I almost have to pay tribute to SV and the representative Serigstad The choice for the budget he is going to present – I am not able to do that, because there are others who are going to ask him questions – because SV actually does some very exciting and real repriorities. When it comes to the use of oil, the Left has been critical of everything from the draft budget to the government to the table, and the Left is also critical of the fact that we are now voting jointly for a budget that is quite expansive. That being said, there is no doubt that the budget adopted today is, unfortunately, at least expansive of all the options that lie ahead. In this way, both the signatures and the representative Serigstad Valen have a common responsibility for making this look better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e942	I get to put myself in the line of congratulations for knallhard efforts to make a blue budget a little greener. The Greens have a lot in common with the Greens in terms of objectives and instruments, and the Greens are, for example, the Greens. nor is it a matter of taxing the whole of business. We take in large resources on green taxes and taxes from those who have the most, and reinvest them in new business. Many people were startled by the blue budget, and I think the left was too. I understand that the left is now doing a hard job to produce the final result as well. But I want to tackle one point in the blue budget that the Left is behind, and it's the big tax havens, which are, in other words, oil money-funded consumption growth. How does the representative of the Left think that this contributes to sustainable development and good climate change in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e949	Thank you again for the congratulations – also to the representative Hansson. Hansson knows just as well as I do that the most important thing about a budget is that it actually leads to changes in the consumption pattern. This is a budget that, for the first time in modern Norwegian history, actually leads to a reduction in domestic CO2 emissions. Then, of course, you can have a discussion about how much it really is. I was in my main post saying that only on biodiesel alone will reach the size of 200,000 tons. Nor do I have any difficulty telling the representative Hansson that the Left would, of course, go much further in the budget we will adopt later, along with the alternative budget that the Left will primarily vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e957	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e960	In Norway, we share to create. Small differences, trust between people and shared ownership of resources have created one of the world's best societies. It was not the market that created the welfare society of Norway, it was the will to control the market that did. We can do much better than what we decide in Stortinget today. We could have been the big deal that provided equality and equal work, and that would have done what is needed to combat involuntary part-time. We could give priority to combating sexual harassment in school and working life and ensure that the tax system did not prevent equality. This harvest is a harvest full of lost opportunities for equality in Norway. I never thought I'd have to say this, but Norway needs a gender equality policy. We could have been the big one that said we're going to make an extra contribution to solving the world's crises. The world has experienced the greatest refugee disaster since World War II. The Ebola epidemic is still not under control. The suffering is enormous as a result of wars, conflicts and unrest in Iraq and Syria, but also in South Sudan and the Central African Republic. We could easily have given 1 billion. extra in a humanitarian contribution to help in these crises, and we could easily receive several thousand Syrian refugees, but the Storting does not. We could have been the big deal that met the climate crisis and a changed world economy with a modern climate policy, which made climate solutions most available to people, and a modern industrial policy that contributed both to climate solutions and to safe jobs in Norway. Several environments scream for a proper bet on sea winds, while many shipyards along the coast fear empty order books before they can start the Sverdrup projects. The time has come for the growth of Norwegian soil to continue indefinitely. The majority of the population has no answer to that. What we're going to live on after the oil is still an abstract question for the majority. We could continue to increase more to the railway than to the road, and followed up our promises of collective action in the cities. It's not going to do the mass mass. We could have been the big deal that said: in Norway, we have to fight poverty. We will ensure that the most disadvantaged families in Norway get more to walk with. We could listen to the Board's advice and increase child welfare, especially for small children's families and families with many siblings. We know that's working. We know it's fighting poverty. SV is alone about entering for such a grip, and we have been for many years. We could end the fact that social welfare recipients are locked up in poverty by being drawn into child welfare. It is a completely ridiculous principle that is practiced in too many municipalities in Norway. But the Storting doesn't. Instead, the poorest families of children are affected because government parties have locked themselves in a theory that since work is to pay off, disease must cost. We could have been the big crowd that distributed the opposite way, which increased the tax on the highest incomes and the highest wealth, and which left most people with more to walk with – that you get more for your work. We could have been a big deal that said that you earn $1.5 million a year, you can contribute more to your well-being, but you earn $400,000, you deserve to be left with more. It had reduced differences — and built on one of the largest forces in Norwegian society. It would have made it possible for a real green shift, which consisted of real environmental measures, not luggage taxes. SV proposes greater tax cuts than the majority of those who earn less than NOK 600 000 – and it is payable by anyone who earns more than NOK 600 000. We could have been the big deal that provided quality throughout the school day, with more teachers, physical activity and a health promise for children and young people, and we could have made it our goal to implement a new welfare reform in Norway. But we have apparently reached the end of history after the great majority of people see it – there is no need for new welfare reforms. The author I most appreciate is Sigurd Hoel. There are few who in one sentence manage to say so much about both the people around them and the society they're part of, like Sigurd Hoel. In «Sinners in summer sun» he describes how words can rage off and be something that just comes out of you, but as the words make an impression, they become something that binds you. The main person speaks in effect, but the word is realized just by what he says. He writes: «What concerns me, I had been given the worst of the irritation now; but on the other hand, I had drifted, and it was not so easy to stop again. Do I mean anything about what I said? Yes, the one who knew. I think the first time I said it was Johan's fault, I didn't mean it yet. [[...]] But when the word was said, and I saw that Johan didn't just laugh at me, but was falling asleep, it struck me that there was more to what I had thought. THE word was said, and it has always been so that the word creates the thought, the word provides the argument." In this debate, I have the feeling that several of the bourgeois parties have much in common with the main character of «Sinners in summer sun». The closing circle of arguments proving the destructive power of the property tax, and the salvation it will be for everyone if the Norwegian owner class gets these tax cuts, is broken. All that remains are vague statements by the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister on ‘general economic truths’ and ‘general economic theory’. But the word has been spoken by the Right for a long time, and in the absence of real arguments, the Right has allowed the word to give rise to the argument. But the support parties have also allowed the word to govern the content. What a feeling it must have been to say to the whole country, over and over again for several years, that we needed a new government, we needed Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen to speed up climate policy and combat poverty here in the country – and then, afterwards, sit here in the Chamber during the presentation of the state budget we received in the harvest. For a feeling it must have been. What a feeling it must be today to represent the Christian People's Party and the Left and defend this budget, in all its unpretentious, conservative, ambitious lack of adequacy. Their problem is that the word has been said so many times, and thus the word must provide the argument. The fact that the environment becomes heavenly is not helped, for the words are said: 'We need a new government'. The words are said: 'We have agreed on a state budget', which means that the word must provide arguments. Therefore, there is no way in which everyone is suddenly satisfied with a budget where it is still cut in the child supplement to the most disadvantaged and where the tax cuts of the country's richest elite are financed by petty cuts in welfare. Never before have two self-declared centres been so happy to cut from car hire to social security, cut in the organisation grants for recruiting job seekers with reduced working capacity, cut in the benefit of child care for single dependants, cut in the arrangements under sick pay, cut in the tools for improving working capacity, cut in the support of child care for survivors, and cut in the holiday allowance for day-care recipients. For the word has already been said, and the word binds, and that means that the word must provide the arguments. But the arguments don't hold. The arguments of the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party are fig leaves that cover one of the most unsocial government budgets in Norway's history, a budget that increases Norway's dependence on oil, a budget that puts more on tax cuts to wealth than knowledge, growth, jobs and the environment. The arguments are undressed, and once again there's a majority that we all know doesn't want to cooperate, but that does because it's said, and because it's going to be prestigious. It's not politics, it's vanity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e995	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e998	First, I would like to congratulate SV on a budget that has interesting estimates in terms of tax relief, both too many people and – something – on industry. This could have led to increased job offers and participation, but is countered by the SV’s significant tax incentives. SV has itself said ‘the word’ about how taxes and taxes work: economic incentives make us change behaviour. We're taxing and taxing in particular what we want less of. Therefore, through increased environmental taxes, SV will help to reduce the use of environmentally hostile products. That's good. But let's apply the same logic to work: SV proposes a new entry point for top taxes and tax increases on relatively normal income for entrepreneurs and business owners, who create the SV so much would benefit. How long does it take for entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, business owners or ordinary knowledge workers to take the hint from socialism, work less, create less and thus create the downward welfare spiral over time, for which socialism is so well known?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1005	In my world, there's not 1.5 million. a normal income. It is possible that there are right-wing electoral groups in Oslo, it is not in SVs. I don't think entrepreneurs who earn more than a million are driven by the annual salary – I think they're driven by the will to create something, to participate and develop something and spread it to more people. At least that applies to the founders I know. Where we know – and there is a clear consensus among researchers – that taxes on labour have an effect on the very lowest incomes. In Norway, we have a tax system that is too flat – tax increases very quickly when you have low income, but is reasonably flat no matter how much you earn more than 800,000 kroner. We think that is unsocial and unfair. That is why I believe that people who serve as much as I do, and as the representative Nordby Lunde, can do more to ensure the well-being that has made Norway such a good country to live in, and so those who earn half of what we serve can be left with more of the cake.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1010	On 8 October we were given the State budget, presented by Minister of Finance Siv Jensen. In the debate immediately after the presentation of the budget, the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen spent some of his speaking time talking about the labourers of society. He framed a number of occupational groups and this disease group ofrevmatists, a disease group that, under the red-green regime, was offered less favourably through increased prowess, poorer treatment and fewer medicines on blue prescription. I have tried in my review of the SV's alternative budget to find out which grip there is SV doing to remedy the situation both for chroniclers and not least for those he himself calls to wearers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1017	I share the commitment of the representative Holthe to the workers and can mention in the same context that 1 December is the day of the cleaners. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the cleaners of the day, a group which, according to the TV programme at the NRK yesterday, is Norway's second best group in chess. In the case of chroniclers and sick people who have worked hard here in Norway, it is very important to ensure that we have a welfare system that rewards hard work and takes care of those who wear out their bodies in hard work. That's exactly why we've been so hard critics of the changes the government proposed, for example. in the children’s allowance for disability, and which is continued in the budget agreement, with a view to how much you can get into disability if you have a child. It's deeply unsocial. In addition, far greater increases in health, in the prevention field, in action areas and measures to get more chronically ill people back into work in the alternative budget of the SV than in the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1024	SV proposes to cut the entire allocation for cash support. This means that the families of almost 25 000 children lose an income of NOK 6000 per month. We know that several of these families are low-income families. SV suggests correctly that children waiting in kindergarten should receive NOK 6000 in monthly waiting allowance, but estimates that this only applies to around 1250 children. SV also suggests using 156 million. kr in new children's playgrounds for children who are currently receiving cash support, but this only reaches about 1 200 new places. This means that the families of over 20,000 children remain without cash support, without waiting support and without room in the nursery. My question to the representative Serigstad Valen is whether he thinks it is a good policy to cut a well-being for so many families because you want their children to go to kindergarten when you don't bet any more in new kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1031	One of the strangest ideas on the right-hand side of Norway is that you have to pay people money so that you don't use a well-being that we all splatter at. I never understood that. When we also know that cash support has a terrible equality effect and a poor integration effect, it is so clear that we want to spend this money on things that hit more. We spend more money on increasing child welfare than we spend on abolishing the cash support. According to the Distribution Committee, this is the most effective instrument for reaching the most disadvantaged families. The calculations that have been made when we have developed not only the waiting aid, but also the half an hour less working time for young children's parents until the baby is 18 months, as we propose in our alternative budget, are based on calculations from the government and on the budgetary response we have received from the government. If it is the case that kindergartens are underfunded here in the country, maybe there are completely different parties the representative should be held responsible than SV, proposing the greatest increase – among all parties – to kindergartens in his alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1041	There is a worrying development in mental health protection that is related to the reduction of the daily supply of mental health care to people with mental illness, without increasing the capacity of the municipalities and the DPS. Last year, the government party, the Christian People's Party and the Left-Down Center Party voted their proposal on ear-marked funds for an escalation plan for mental health in the municipalities. The same party enters the 2015 budget to order all hospitals to cut bed capacity and daily treatment for outpatient treatment by moving 50 million. kr from basic permission to outpatient activity. I see that SV supports this redistribution, while I do not see that SV has a clear prioritisation of funds for a new escalation plan for mental health in the municipalities in its alternative budget. Is this a glitch from the SV page, or does SV here support the blue-blue priorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1048	SV is fully dividing the representative Toppe's involvement, and we're earmarking these 200 million. kr in our alternative budget because it is an important matter. As regards the nomination of funds, I would like to refer to the committee of the Health Committee, where our party leader, Audun Lysbakken, is sitting. There will be many clarifications of the various entries we propose in the SV's alternative budget – in all committees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1055	In today's troubled world, a strong precaution is needed. On the SV's homepages, it can be read that both climate change and changing international conditions require innovation in defence and security policy. Still, SV cuts 1 billion. kr in the defence budget. Can the representative say a little about what's new, and what part of the defense is going to be weakened in time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1060	The majority of the reductions we propose in defence are on purchase. There are some displacements and some cuts in the different defenses. We do that because Norway is the country throughout the West, with the exception of the United States, which spends the most money on defence per capita. I do not feel sure that all that money is used as well as they could be. SV is a member of a strong Norwegian defense. We have e.g. has also always been the strongest supporter of a defence that focuses more on defence of Norway than NATO adventures around the world. We also got a certain amount of throughput for that in the red-green government. There are also two increases we're proposing in the field of defence that I just want to mention. One is an appropriation for research on right-wing extremist terror. It is a scandal that we have done nothing more in this field in Norway. The second is that we want to participate more in United Nations operations internationally, and thus allocate 25 million extra dollars to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1069	I want to start by giving tribute to SV for an alternative budget that is linked and that takes some courageous action, and that is not just a return to the status quo 2013, which characterises the budgets of SV's former partners in the Workers' Party and the Center Party. Much is recognizable from the Left's budget, while in other areas we obviously disagree. Both the SV's and Left's budgets have a major focus on redistribution. In some areas, we agree, on others. Such an area is child care allowance. SV will have equal price for everyone. This means that even the super-rich ones, of whom SV is otherwise very busy, are getting a relief in kindergarten prices in 2015 from the scheme that gets a majority today, while those who come from low-income families will have increased costs. Nor does SV, like the Left, propose to introduce free core time into kindergarten for 4–5 year olds, children from low-income families, one of the most important advice from the distribution committee to which SV otherwise often refers. Can the FIP explain the logic of this type of redistribution from poor to rich?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1078	I would first like to repeat that SV proposes a record increase in child welfare, which is the most precise instrument for meeting the most disadvantaged families, as well as tax cuts for all low-paid people in Norway. With regard to the kindergarten prize, it is that SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party – even Kåre Willoch – have understood something that the Left has never understood, and that universal arrangements are a guarantee of social cohesion. The fact that rich people on the Oslo west pay the same for kindergarten as a normal family in Trondheim does makes everyone willing to contribute according to the ability of the tax system. We haven't tried out the price of school here in Norway. We do not have a need-tested price to be treated in hospitals, and in the same way, we should not have it on other welfare schemes either. It's just to make sure that those who have the most in society are contributing the most, and then they're also going to get the exact same thing back as everyone else. It is the guarantee of a Norway with small social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1085	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1088	On 19 November, former BP Chief Lord Browne confirmed on the front page of the Financial Times that climate change is an existing threat to the fossil industry. On the same day, Norwegian oil and gas sent out a press release in which it was hot that the oil activity in Lofoten could start in 2040. This illustrates Norway at the beginning of 2015: While knowledge and markets are increasingly warning that the time is overdue for a large investment in a fossil-free Norwegian economy, Norwegian majority policy is still engaged – mainly – in opening new oilfields after 2040. In business it is well known that the most dangerous point for a company is when it's at the top, when everything is very good, and change is an intrusive thought. Norway is at this point now. A dominant oil industry continues to deliver revenues and jobs on a large scale, and government and large-scale growth rates seem to be the best way to keep it that way. The government budget as a government budget and aid lots have been agreed on in 2015, is a budget that continues to increase private consumption, continues to increase oil money consumption, continues to increase State oil investment, continues to increase road construction more than collective development and further deepens the doubling of the Norwegian economy. Yes, the final version of the budget also contains several green measures, as it is a move in the right direction, but the sum of the main features of the budget is hardly green enough. The 2015 budget of the Cooperation Party is a budget which primarily hesitates to invest in change. The Environment Party The Greens' alternative budget for 2015 does the opposite. We deliver a budget for large-scale investment in change. We're investing 10 billion. SEK in new green business, 6 billion. kr in collective, bicycle and zero-emission cars, SEK 4,5 billion. NOK to the municipalities and NOK 3 billion. SEK to Norwegian nature. The greens are raising food quality, animal welfare and agriculture on the agenda, and we're cutting oil money by 16 billion. kr. Throughout this entire budget, we are making clear choices. We choose quality of life in front of consumption, we choose green business in front of oil, we choose public transport in front of the road. Costs shall be placed where they belong. From a sustainability perspective, it is called that the polluter should pay. Therefore, the Green price of fossil cars, air travel, electricity, meat and other consumables is increasing, so the price is getting closer to reflecting the costs that these goods put on society. At the same time, we make green food and healthy food cheaper, and we make it cheaper to repair and reuse. The green budget provides considerable tax relief for people with low incomes and makes offensive measures to get housing up and housing prices down. It will make the economic everyday life easier for ordinary people. Someone has done a big number of that we're taking out the entire 38 billion. kr in increased taxes and taxes. Yeah, this is a big number. It's divided into 25 billion. SEK in increased environmental taxes, 9 billion. kr in increased taxes on income and wealth and SEK 6 billion. kr in increased financial taxes. But in total, this is just 4 pst. of the total tax input. And if 4 pst. is an intolerable change in taxes and taxes in Norway, as it appears to be dark about the willingness to bet on change in this country. We want to use the space that these revenues give us to invest 10 billion. kr in new green business, including with new investment funds, new dividend policies stimulating State power, large funds for research and development and tax relief for entrepreneurs and small businesses. The Svein Fleet from the Right said earlier in the debate that the Greens must lubricate with patience before the Right and the Advance Party can be inspired by our budget. We do not doubt that, but the question is whether the fleet, the prime minister and the two government parties at some point are going to run out of patience on behalf of climate, environment and the future. The question is how low the oil price must be before the Right, the Advance Party and the supporting parties will do something more than talk green. How many climate reports do we need to shift focus from increasingly risky oil investments to green jobs? The Green Party has put forward a budget that challenges the idea that the green shift will come about by itself, without major investments and clear choices. But we're an optimistic party, and we have good faith that the rest of the Storting will come after. Finally, I refer to the Greens' proposals for an alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1118	The representative Rasmus Hansson has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1123	I noticed that the representative Hansson was quite critical of the environmental profile of the budget that will be adopted here today, in contrast to, for example. Representative Hans Olav Syversen, who earlier today took quite big words in his mouth when he said that this was the most ambitious environmental budget ever, and that it is just a taste of what we can expect in the revised national budget. We also heard the Steps of the Left Skei Grande, which at the signing of the agreement said that for the first time the greenhouse gas emissions from transport will decrease etc. Does the representative not see that this budget has some positive climate action, or is it, as he said in his statement, not good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1130	There is no doubt that the budget presented and adopted in the evening is not good enough. At the same time, there is no doubt, as I have also stressed, that there are many good individual measures in that budget, including measures that are better than those implemented by the red-green government in the previous eight years. But I am very much in doubt whether the government and the support parties will be able to prove their claim that this is a budget that will actually cut greenhouse gas emissions. I see that very little evidence that they will be able to document and get verified. But again, like the optimist I am, I doubt the claim of the cooperation parties that this is just the beginning of something better, and then we'll see what's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1138	Looking at the draft budget for the Green Party, there is a lot going on in the environment and climate action – it's even called 'From fossil to renewable' – and I have a lot of respect for it. You have also made a number of proposals in Stortinget to include Stortinget in several climate action. But my question then becomes about the representative Hansson can say a little more about the other aspects of the budget of the Green Party in terms of social policy, policies towards municipalities, schools, etc., which perhaps did not come out as well – at least not as I could see – in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1145	Thank you for a good question. I would like to begin by quoting from the Labour Party leader Jonas Gahr Støre, who not so terribly long ago stated that climate and environment must be the framework of other policies. This does not mean that other policies are not important, and those that go through the Green Party's policy will see that in health, in school, in social, etc. are we as offensive as – or more offensive than – other parties. For example: The economy of people with less and less income, we are among the most offensive on the tax side. The same applies to start-up holdings. But it's not hard to admit that as a party with a little less resources than for example. The working party, we have to focus on the main thing. So in the first place, climate, environment and consumption will be what the Greens focus most on, but that does not mean that we lack policies in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1152	The representative Hansson has put forward an alternative budget where, as he himself also says, he increases taxes by 38 billion. kr. There is also, of course, much of the debate on whether the Green Party is a centre party when you go far left of all parties on the tax profile. But that also means that the representative Hansson has a lot more money to travel with. Of course, as a member of the Church, Education and Research Committee, I quickly discussed what you are doing in universities and colleges, because you have to do this green transition, which I think the Green Party and the Right can agree on, you also have to have someone to implement that transformation. There's a lot of priority on research, we're glad, and I think the representative Hansson is also happy with the priority we're doing there. But some people have to research. That's why my question is why you don't give more money, or do something in the university and higher education sectors beyond what the Right Party and the Advance Party do in government. Is that a forgetfulness? Or is the Higher Education Policy of the Right Party and the Advance Party simply the same as the Higher Education Policy of the Green Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1157	With regard to the division into the right and left sides of Norwegian policy, I would like to remind the representative Asheim that we are really red when it comes to levying first and foremost taxes, and also taxes, but we are bluer than the Right has ever had the courage to distribute that money again to stimulate a private business. So there's something for anyone to learn. As far as research is concerned, beyond what is in our budget, I would like to agree that the Right's budget is quite forward-looking and quite offensive, and the Greens' Environment Party – which, of course, spends 16 billion. kr less to take oil money than it does, for example. Right do - don't have anything to distribute. One of the things we're concerned about in the research sector is that this is also a sector that has limited capacity to accept difficult increases over a short period of time, but we're very concerned about a development that stimulates both the capacity and the volume of the sector in a way that matches the needs we have in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1164	I noticed that the representative Hansson said that he was optimistic, and that he hoped, among other things, to do so. Your right hand patience wouldn't be too long before you did anything. I want to challenge the Greens: if it is one of the priority areas that the party has profiled in this budget to get a green shift, what would he draw out as the most important?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1169	Then I would like to highlight the following: I wanted to move the framework conditions that today make the Norwegian oil and gas sector an exceptionally privileged industry in Norway, from the oil and gas sector to an emerging green sector. It will be a combination of providing a real basis for the development of that sector and a strong political signal of where the political focus of the Storting will lie. Just the obligatory signal combined with the real framework conditions that help us develop the industry we are going to help, and the re-priority it implies is the kind of main signal that not only Norwegian business but Norwegian policy needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1174	In the agreement between the four parties, the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Road Budget is cut. One has cut almost 345 million. kr for renewal, one has cut 30 million. kr to tourist roads, and one has cut 55 million. kr to E16 above the Mountain of File - rather unlikely in a settlement where the Party of Advances is involved, with all they promised before the election. But this will only be small money against cuts proposed by the Green Party. We know that infrastructure, road construction, is perhaps the most important demand in District Norway. What the representative will say are the most important estimates for Norwegian regions and their development of the 3 billion cut. In the road budget proposed by the Green Party in its alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1179	Firstly, I believe that the Centre Party is nevertheless full of happiness over the total budget of the blues, looking at the huge increase in road investment contained in the budget, which is much higher than the increase in, for example, the increase in the budget. public transport. With regard to the budget of the Green Party, we are doing the following: we cut investments for new, large-scale road projects that can be cut, except for what has been contracted. Then we move those funds over to collective action. Moreover, there are once again astonishingly many billions in the Environment Party The Greens budget for maintenance, for securing and for all the things that make transport in District Norway still a safe and appropriate activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1186	One of the tougher steps in the Environment Party's budget is to budget with an extra Statoil dividend of 5 billion. kr. It is, as long as the state is not the sole owner of Statoil, not a decision the Stortinget can without further ado, to express me cautiously. Nor is it the case that Statoil can make an exceptional profit to the Norwegian State without giving equivalent dividends to other owners. It really means losing the company for 1.65 billion. kr to pay dividends to other shareholders, or share speculators, as someone calls it. The question is whether it is a good environmental policy and whether it is at all something that the Greens have thought about. Has the representative Hansson considered what such a dividend policy would do to companies where the State is a partner, in particular companies listed on the largest international stock exchanges? What does it want, for example? dealing with the share price and thus the possibility to finance a significant part of our common well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1193	I can assure the representative Raja that the Green Party has reflected on this, which is a pretty good illustration of the situation Norway has faced by salting down very large parts of our national wealth, or the management of it, through a company that we only partly run. However, it must be possible for a majority victory, vis-à-vis a company that manages important Norwegian resources, to decide to raise increased dividends. It must also be possible – as this is part of the Environmental Party of the Greens – to shift the focus from allowing Statoil to retain very large portions of its profits, while Statkraft is toiled for most of its profits, to an opposite strategy, where we give Statkraft large parts of its profits for further investment, while Statoil contributes more to the common fund and to new green investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1200	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1204	The chairman of the finance committee, Hans Olav Syversen, had found inspiration in yesterday's hymn at the NRK. Then, of course, it can be tempting to quote from one of the old psalmists: ‘Every pleasure you got on earth must be paid with sorrow.’ Then, of course, I hope it is not representative of the approach to the budgets in the future. I am pleased with the agreement between the cooperation parties. Together, we have found solutions that take account of the values and priorities of all four parties. The government’s budget proposal contained clear commitment to knowledge, commerce, the justice sector and health and care. This has been maintained and partly reinforced in the budget unit. It's giving us a historic effort on the road and track. For the first time in several decades, the maintenance of the national road network will be reduced. We're getting more visible police, we're building new prisons, and we're renting settlements in other countries. And we're creating patients' healthcare. We increase patient treatment, we lift alcohol and psychiatry, and not least we renew healthcare both by using more of the available capacity in public and private health services and by introducing free treatment options. The cooperation lots were awarded many of their requirements in the agreement they entered into with the government. At the same time, the grand process has given the Stortinget the real opportunity to put its mark on the final budget. It has not been the case in the last eight red-green years, when the budgets were actually determined by presentation in the Storting. The treatment in Stortinget has also shown us clear alternatives: the government's proposal for lower taxes and taxes to facilitate the conversion of business or the Labour Party budget, with a sharp increase in the level of taxation in a situation of growing uncertainty in the Norwegian economy. It is now a majority for a good budget for 2015. We need that in a situation where the Norwegian economy is facing challenges again. Many euro area countries are still struggling with low economic activity and high unemployment after the financial crisis. It also affects us. However, Norwegian economy has been quite successful. Employment is growing, and unemployment is low. The growth of the mainland economy continued in the third quarter of this year, and at a slightly higher rate than we estimated in the 2015 national budget. At the same time, challenges are becoming clearer. We have long known that the downwind of the oil sector would gradually turn. Now we're there. In the budget, we estimate a clear decline in oil investment as early as next year. However, this level may be higher than in 2012 and may rise slightly again in subsequent years. However, uncertainty has increased in recent months. The oil price has fallen, the decline has continued, and the price is after the meeting in OPEC on Thursday now is less than $70 per barrel. The fall in the oil price to current levels reduces Norway’s revenue by over 70 billion. kr next year. Much of the loss is borne by the state. However, lower oil prices may also lead to a faster decline in the demand from the petroleum industry than estimated. We know that it will require conversion. Although the crown has weakened in the last two years, the level of costs in Norway remains high. It will make it harder for us to raise ourselves in new markets with tougher competition. Our response to this challenge is to support under labour supply and productivity. The budget we're discussing today, does just that. The Government is aiming to strengthen the working line and investment in knowledge and commerce. It helps to facilitate growth in the economy. The budget also stimulates the demand for goods, services and labour in the short term. That is why I am pleased that there is a majority in favour of large parts of the government's proposal for tax relief. The situation in the economy suggests that new, large tax bills for businesses and individuals are wrong medicine. In addition to a good budget, we have other buffers whose short-term development is weakening. The pension fund protects the budget from fluctuations in, for example: the oil price. Monetary policy can react quickly when the outlook for the economy changes. We also have experience that the exchange rate can be influenced by new information on the economic outlook. We have also seen this in the last few months, as the crown has constantly weakened. This is an example of how markets can dampen the shocks we are facing. Banks have become more solid in recent years. Then they can also more easily meet unforeseen events. The adaptations made by businesses, households and workers in the markets are the most important lines of defence we have. However, we cannot rule out that active action from our side can be correct later on. The government is therefore following developments closely. In the budget, we propose to increase the use of oil money by 17 billion. kr. The opposition is concerned that the government is spending too much oil money. The working party proposes to increase the use of oil revenues by 15 billion. NOK, towards our 17 billion. kr. This difference is with respect to reporting very little and has probably more rhetorical than real economic impact. The difference, on the other hand, is how we spend the money. Let me remind you of the intention when the rule of action was introduced. In this respect, oil money was primarily to be used in the economy for growth-enhancing measures, for tax relief, for investment in infrastructure, research and education. That's what this government is doing. The growth in expenditure is a reflection of future financing needs, and it is much stronger in the Labour Party budget, where there are proposals that will require more labour to be shifted from the competitive sector to an even larger oil-funded public sector. There is no need for Norway in today’s situation. At a time when we are facing major changes, it is important to focus more on how the money is used. Not least, the tax system has a lot to say about how most people and Norwegian businesses use their powers. The changes proposed by the government in the wealth tax will stimulate increased savings. They will turn Norwegian capital from property against jobs and strengthen Norwegian entrepreneurs and owners' ability to bet. To next year, fewer people will also pay top taxes, because the entry point is increasing, and it will make work more profitable. We're also concerned with reducing taxes and taxes for the ordinary man and woman in the street, simply because it's right to let people keep more of their own income. Increased minimum deductions for wages, social security and pensions will mean that most people get more to walk with. Students and others with low labour income will enjoy the increase in the credit card limit to NOK 50000. Relieving car charges is also something common to people, while lower taxes on trucks will be an important contribution to the competitiveness of the transport industry. In agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party, we are taking a new step towards green taxes. It will include, among others: cheaper to buy an environmentally friendly car and fill green on the tank next year. At the same time, we must recognise that the estimates of the country's revenues from environmental taxes are uncertain, in particular from completely new taxes, and perhaps especially during the year of introduction. As I have previously written in answers to budgetary questions from the Left and Christian People's Party, it is difficult to estimate how much the turnover of carrier bags will be reduced as a result of the price increase. I would therefore like to emphasise the simple design of the fee, so that it does not create unnecessary difficulties for the industry or for individuals. I want to inform the Stortinget about the fee in the revised national budget. That's a majority of 5.2 billion. kr in tax reliefs. With that, the total relief since this government took over is $12.5 billion. kr. For us, tax policy is an important part of increasing the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. We've started the work we promised the voters. We focus our efforts on measures that support conversion, growth and efficient resource use. We lower taxes and taxes, and we strengthen our efforts towards those who need it the most, regardless of whether they receive social security or are in work. We promote transport, health, justice, education and research. That's how we rust Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1245	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1248	In the Workers' Party, we are basically positive about using taxes to bring about more environmentally friendly behaviour, but we also believe that introducing new taxes should be done with caution, because charges are all equally applicable, even if there are different incomes. I record that the government must have a different approach to this, here the first priority has been great tax cuts for those who have a lot from before. This has resulted in a huge loss of revenue for the state and thus so large a cut that the government did not get a majority for it in the Stortinget. This resulted in large fees increases in the last hour to save the budget. After all, it must be an expression of a lack of ability to control and prioritize when one ends up imposing a charge that no one really wants to admit, in order to compensate for these tax cuts. Will the government continue to co-finance tax cuts for those who have a lot in the future by introducing new clean fiscal charges?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1257	I believe the representative Marthinsen is completely wrong in his approach through this issue. The government's first priority is not the property tax, but it's the whole budget. It is about facilitating more growth and value creation in a business that now needs more offensive framework conditions to strengthen its competitiveness. This is done by the government, both through tax reductions, through transport measures, through research, through knowledge, through innovation, which are overall instruments and measures needed by a business in transition. Then it becomes a little bit hollow to me when the Workers' Party's approach appears very touching in relation to business, but overall the taxes in its alternative budget increase by 14 billion. kr. It is not a contribution to increasing the migration capacity of Norwegian business, it is not a contribution to making Norwegian business more competitive. I would say that in the time we are now in, the Workers' Party should worry a little bit more about it, rather than reverse tax relief, as they call it, back to the 2013 level. Going back to the past at a time when we need to look forward, I think it is quite remarkable that the Workers' Party is looking pleased and satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1264	I record that the Minister of Finance does not answer the question and would rather talk about the Labour Party's arrangements, so I try again – in a slightly different way. I recorded the Minister of Finance talking about the man in the street in his post. There are 1.4 million Northmen who make between 300,000 and 500,000 kroner – I would assume that this is the man in the street to which the Minister of Finance refers. If they don't have any wealth, they get an average tax cut of approx. $400 a year. For a family with children in kindergarten, the money is gone quickly with the increase you add up to. I don't know if the finance minister remembers the family that TV 2 visited on the day the budget was presented, who had voted for the Progress Party in the hope of tax cuts, but who ended up going minus when the kindergarten bill was paid. So these are the ones that have to pay when the country's 0.1 pst. The richest gets 30 pst. of the largest individual bet, cut into taxes on wealth. I wonder what the reason is that the Minister of Finance has gone away from the promises of tax cuts for most people, the man in the street, and now has the main priority of cutting the taxes to those who have the most from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1273	The government is taking more action in the budget next year together with the cooperation parties. We give relief to business and to ordinary people, both through taxes and through taxes. And this family that Marianne Marthinsen has obviously seen on TV, wouldn't be more satisfied with the tax bill that the Workers' Party had planned to send them next year, over 14 billion. kr. The truth is that this is a budget that gives relief, while we're strengthening road appropriations, we're strengthening the health budget, we're strengthening the justice budget, so we're getting a safer society next year, we're making sure our kids get better teachers and a better school to go to. I believe that the sum of it draws us towards an even better society – both next year and in the years to come. Then I have said that we will now, linked to the fee on bags, go through it thoroughly by the Ministry of Finance, find a suitable device on it and come back to it before the date of introduction on 15 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1280	I thank you for the greeting that every pleasure you have on earth is now paid with pain, as Bjørnson has written it. I can say, "Listen, where there's a storm out there. Here it is peaceful and quiet." So we are quite well, but I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is pleased with both the poets and the hymns. But the finance minister asked us to look forward, and I would like to see it. Tomorrow, an important selection work will be presented by the Scheel Committee. If one is to believe the leaks that have occurred, there are significant proposals for changes, including: taxes on property shall be increased. A lot of professional economists are on that track. My question to the Minister of Finance is whether the government now has a signal to give about what it thinks about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1289	I am very pleased that there is both ‘peaceful and quiet’ between the four cooperation parties. Had to keep going like that. As far as the Scheel Committee is concerned, I think you should wait to make an opinion about it before you know the content of the report. It'll be here tomorrow. I'm happy to receive it, but I think we're all going to be concerned about how we approach the challenges of getting a more competitive tax system in the future. The selection will certainly point to many different opportunities and challenges. Then it may be that the report is not exhaustive, and that there is a need to make new investigations – what do I know. But I believe, in any case, that we should have a broad approach, a thorough approach, a good consultation process, and not least close cooperation with the Stortinge to end up with what should be the goal of getting the best and most competitive tax system that makes our business competitive with its surroundings.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1298	There have been strong reports at the NRC about failure in the care of the elderly with very specific stories about individuals. The party's clearest pledge in the election campaign was a government financing of the care of the elderly. It has ended up in an investigation project on a State funding experiment. So it's put in the drawer. There's a huge tax failure in the municipalities right now. This could be a That's big numbers. What's the consequence of those numbers? Well, it's going to be cut in the care and care service around the country. Hospital wards are going to be shut down, the offer for many of those in need is going to be worse – not better – and here we stand and have the opportunity to do something about it. In 2004, the Stortinget granted more money when there was tax failure. Will this government take the initiative to do the same, so that those who are now affected will not be cut off from their offers, but will get a better offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1307	I have also seen the entries that the NRK had both yesterday and today, linked to some challenges with the care of the elderly in the municipalities of the country. It shows with all possible clarity why it is important to strengthen competences around the country's municipalities, which, after all, have the primary responsibility to provide good care for people who need it. This is why it is so important that the government and the majority in this Chamber now strengthen the local economy as a whole quite significantly next year, because it allows municipalities to fulfil their primary tasks, such as: is about care. So, of course, the Progress Party has also been committed to putting in place a government funding of this. The government has provided a reinforced commitment to parts of the State contribution. In addition, we are now going to carry out a test project that will allow us to ‘benchmark’ the existing model with a new one, and that will allow us to think again in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1315	The left has given the government the honour of having its own EU Minister. Unfortunately, this has led to the fact that we have a government which at least seems to have a sense of being more preoccupied with the EU’s interests vis-à-vis Norway than with Norway’s interests towards the EU. This is almost not the only case that should not be ESA notified. Today, we adopt, for example, the imposition of exemptions from the user charge for biodiesel that meets the EU’s sustainability criterion from 1 July. According to the government, the reason why it can't be imported is the same ESA. I have two questions for the Minister of Finance: Why my government it is necessary to notify a scheme Norway has had for many years, exemptions from the user fee for biodiesel, which we had until 2010, especially given that it was not notified before, and that we have exemptions from the blend of bioethanol that ESA has never cared about? And can the Minister of Finance guarantee that the government will notify the scheme so quickly that it will be possible to introduce the exemption from 1 July, as stated by the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1322	Let me first point out that this government's main objective is to ensure Norwegian interests in everything we do, whether it's in relation to the EU or it's in relation to other parts of the world. But then some of the changes that are decided upon require notification. I can assure the representative Breivik that the government is putting all the pressure on making good preparations to ensure that most of these arrangements go through. That also means, of course, that we're putting pressure on being able to realize this in line with the assumptions of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1327	There were probably many progress party voters who were surprised when Minister of Finance Siv Jensen gave priority to cutting the wealth tax to the wealthiest for two years in a row, and especially considering that much of the impact is caused by very unsocial cuts that affect a very large number of people: everything from cutting the car system to cutting the social security system to facilitating recruitment of those with reduced working capacity, cutting the support of child care for lone dependants, cutting off the tools for improving their function, cutting the support of child care for the recipients of the survivor's pension and the cuts in the child's allowance, who live on in a slightly different form in the budget agreement. What will Finance Minister Siv Jensen say to those who are disappointed with the budget of the Progress Party, who voted for the Progress Party, but who are now hit by one or more of these unfair cuts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1334	First of all, let me say that the reason why this government is concerned with reducing the tax burden on Norwegian business is that what is all, all of us, is most important to most of us, namely having a safe and secure job to go to. Without it, there is little need for redistribution because we don't have the same tax revenue in the treasury that we can use for redistribution. That is why I believe that the red-greens must soon come to a recognition. I have heard earlier articles here today talking about that there is an increased capital need for Norwegian business. But that's not the answer to raising the tax first, so to speak, that we should give grant schemes to the same companies that are facing challenges as a result of the first increase in the tax. To me, it's completely illogical, and I think we have to be able to do more things at the same time, even when we're making a budget. We need to strengthen the basis for existing and new jobs while increasing transfers to different groups in society in order to secure welfare services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1339	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1342	It is not in the mention of the challenges facing our country that the government and the Workers' Party are separating teams. We can agree that we are facing an even more demanding time in the European and international economies, challenging our businesses and all of us as communities in terms of migration and renewal requirements. We can agree that the technological development behind what is called the new industrial age will mean both challenges and opportunities; we face automation and a new organisation of both industry and services. We can agree that Norway needs to act today to equip us to meet developments that we now see the outlines of: We're getting older in Norway, the population is growing. Several move to the larger cities, and we're going to solve huge infrastructure problems. We're going to meet a growing population by further developing and strengthening the welfare state's offerings, both in quality and in quantity. And -- as we remember from the persuasion debate, we can agree that we will meet all of this within the framework that the climate sets for us. Norway shall both lead and take its part in the responsibility for preventing climate change from destroying nature and the basis of life on earth. It's in the direction of meeting this future that we're separating layers. This is what is reflected in the draft state budget presented by the Right and the Advance Party two months ago. That is also the direction this debate should take. A government budget is full of issues and initiatives in Norwegian policy that we can agree on many of us. The government believes that it has received too little attention about what it calls the strengths of the budget, such as efforts in transport, school, police and research. But here there are no major differences between the parties when it comes to bet over the budget. We are well on the way together to prioritizing these important objectives, even though we are betting more in some areas. A key issue is what we should solve together, invest in together, mobilise for one another – and where we are best served to solve the problems each of us, from the government expressed in proposals for privatisation and large tax cuts. The government has drawn a darker picture of the future over the past few weeks, with a message that its economic medicine is necessary in order not to cause serious harm later on. The answer to the challenges is almost ready to be formulated: it is about cutting taxes, the clear greatest effort both in the budgetary agreement and in the proposal that was put forward. The Government draws an image of a society in which the ability to convert fails in business, working life and welfare systems, and in which the recipe for what is called falling productivity growth is to be resolved through a Commission in which the social partners are for the first time excluded. It's an unwise choice. And the government is implementing changes in labour law that weaken and do not strengthen trust and the ability to solve tasks together, which have been so important for the development of our society. The working party has a different starting point. The sum of the problems we're going to solve can be summed up in the ambition that we're going to build the country together. We mean the problems we have to solve, really call for mobilizing the community. Government proposals for tax cuts, there 50 pst. of the reliefs to the 5 pst. with most of it already, is the crazy priority of the freedom of action we have in this budget. We believe that we can achieve greater efficiency and incentives for businesses and communities by investing together – in infrastructure, targeted support for entrepreneurs and good and tried-and-tested schemes to support transitions and new initiatives in innovative enterprises. We believe that the policy should ring the bell that Norway is a country with relatively small economic differences, and take to heart the very clear messages from the OECD to the IMF that growing inequalities hamper the ability to adapt. We believe that Norway has proven to be a good candidate for change – in the company, in the hospital, in the labour market. We can and must constantly reach out, but we can motivate ourselves to this effort by taking advantage of the strong traditions of cooperation, trust and cooperation that we have developed over decades – in the tripartite cooperation of the labour market just as well as the well-established cooperation between management and employees in the individual workplace. These are some of the quality of the FAFO researchers behind the study of the Nordic model, explaining that Nordic countries have had higher employment, lower unemployment, greater technological change and better government finances than other countries. Norway should be a country with small differences and great opportunities. Our draft 2015 budget reflects this ambition. Priority will be given to providing local authorities with space for their tasks and more money to further develop schools, kindergartens, health services and care for the elderly — welfare services close to people. The number of older people is increasing from 2020; it is tomorrow in a planning perspective. It must also appear in the budgets of the municipalities. It is important for well-being, and it is important for value creation and business across the country. In our draft budget, we have prioritised efforts across political disciplines, we have seen instruments in the context. We will ensure that we prioritise growth across the country by facilitating growth and new jobs through support to entrepreneurs and active industrial policies, with particular focus on marine industries, travel, agriculture, environmental/climate technologies, ICT, bioeconomy and health technologies. We will ensure that we meet the climate challenges and accelerate the transition to the low-carbon society, with a special priority for the necessary maintenance of the rail system, a major effort on urban public transport and more on bicycle measures, along with a turnaround of greener-looking charges and a strengthening of the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway. We will ensure that we support the people who will build the country, with a special focus on the skilled worker, several apprenticeships, updating equipment and machine parks in vocational training, investing in vocational teachers, strengthening the vocational schools and improving access to professional letters – and not least by providing decent and safe working life. We will ensure that, in addition to fulfilling our commitment to hospitals, we give public health a strong boost, through increased efforts for health in kindergarten, at school and at work, by reintroducing fruit and vegetables in school, earmarking funds for school health services and starting the introduction of one hour of daily physical activity in school – and not least by upgrading sports facilities and facilitating more people to participate in outdoor activities. The government prioritised its budget differently. The draft budget was clear in its direction. It has, with budgetary conciliation in some areas, moved its efforts towards the broad majority of the Grand Duchy. But the law of gravity still applies: it is the main right-wing direction that is fixed, the tax cuts of those who have the most from before are still the clear main budget effort. In the election campaign last year, the Right Party and the Advance Party believed that seven out of ten oil crowns were used incorrectly. It's unclear how many of the oil crowns are now being used correctly, if we were to follow the logic of the government. In the budget that was to give answers to what the government stands for, we see rather failing ability to re-prioritize much more than giving these huge tax cuts to their own nuclear electors. This is well-known Right Policy, but we have also got something new. From the party that has previously referred to itself as the guarantor of a responsible economic policy, we have seen, at every available crossroads, the collection of oil money in order to make the efforts go up – in this budget historical record is set in the phase-in of oil money. Then we also see with interest that the Right now violates its own most private ‘rule of action’, by increasing public expenditure more than expected growth in the economy. At the same time, we see other new features, such as that the Progress Party demands tolls like never before, introduces bag fees and administers an aid budget of 1 pst. of gross national income. The last thing we can do is thank the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party. I want to recognise the centre parties for correcting obvious social imbalances in the original proposal, they have slowed down parts of the party policy, and we will support that. But again, the main direction is still the same. There have also been improvements in climate and environment, and I will recognise that too, the Christian People's Party and the Left, for which the Labour Party can support much of this. But we'll get the cold shifted by its real name. We first heard that the agreement contained 2 billion. kr in green tax change. But on the same night that the deal was in port, we learned that the volume is only 1 billion. kr, as everyone seems to agree that the fatherless and motherless plastic bag tax is, in effect, a purely fiscal charge. The climate argumentation also has some other clear weaknesses. In order to find enough money in the budget to provide tax relief on petrol and diesel delivered the deal cut in climate quotas, which the Minister for Climate and Environment calls unrealistic budgeting. These are allowances purchased for Norway to comply with its international obligations. There is money going to poor countries to stop the growth of emissions globally. I assume that this will be corrected in the revised national budget in half a year. The speech of the throne offered a willingness to bet on the climate, and I gave the government credit for what was said in that text. On the other hand, the draft budget was drawn in the opposite direction – this was the proposal for: reducing the tax on petrol and diesel to cut the tax on snowmobiles and motorcycles to cut heavily in forest protection, as they promised before the elections to strengthen the reduction of over 50 million. kr for the construction of new bicycle routes to move Transnova to Enova without following with extra money a bet on public transport that was insufficient On top of this, the Minister of Finance removed the chapter on sustainable development from the national budget, a chapter that has been drawn up for each national budget since 2007. Then we see that the Christian People's Party and the Left, after three weeks of intense negotiations, managed to raise the budget to a more decent level in the climate field, closer to what is the majority view here on the Storting. It should ensure that the government turns to the same broad majority in order to strengthen its efforts to achieve the objectives set in the climate agreement. And this is where the government should also anchor Norway's 2030 climate targets, which are to be notified in advance of the Paris climate meeting in 2015. The Labour Party is ready to contribute to such settlements, as we are also prepared to meet for talks among all parties on tomorrow's tax system, after we have received and studied the suspension from the Scheel Committee, which will be held tomorrow. ‘We have to look in the eye that the Norwegian economy is going to meet other and new challenges in the next few years’, said Finance Minister Siv Jensen of Dagbladet recently, and she added that we need to change before it hurts too hard. The Prime Minister has said something of the same thing, when she believes that the Nordics do not take on board what changes the future requires. I don't think it's like that. I think people understand very well that we are facing challenges, and that it requires something from all of us – not just because the oil price falls, but because we live in a changing world. I think people get it when companies in the West have to cancel employees. Both employees and the company owner then understand that this is serious. When consultants across the country put forward proposals for municipal budgets with a tight framework and cut into important welfare services, people see and experience what this is all about. When the hospital staff are going to do all their tasks with appropriations far below the commitments and with ever-increasing efficiency requirements, at the top of their daily efficiency efforts, people see what this is all about. When the elderly care staff have to work out tasks within a narrow framework, while they know that in just a few years the number of older people will increase significantly, they see what this is all about. And when people see more and more signs of climate change, both in Norway and in the outside world, we all realize that we are facing enormous challenges. The political divisions in our country are not about what challenges we see ahead of us, but about how we intend to meet them. It's about direction choices, what we invite people to do, how we distribute burdens, and how we put together. The government has chosen its strategy, in many areas, contrary to the advice of the experts, contrary to popular opinion and contrary to what we think is right to take the country in a different direction. In the Labour Party, we want to spend the big money on the big problems. It is through strong communities and small differences that we best meet the challenges we face. That's why we say no to the big tax cuts to those who have the most from before, and yes to climate, public transport, well-being in the municipalities – and a strong commitment to building the country for the future, with the support of the country's entrepreneurs and businesses, and not least those who are actually going to build the country: this country's skilled workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1449	It's going to be line change, limited to six lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1452	It's a little difficult to get what the representative Gahr Støre really wants. On the one hand, he's talking about there's a lot of need, there's a tight frame, there should have been more growth. On the other hand, he criticises the government for having used too much oil money. In its alternative budget, the Workers' Party has taken all the tax reliefs and turned them into tax increases, while at the same time ensuring that more money is pumped into public budgets. That means that the underlying cost growth goes up from 2.3 pst. to 3 pst. next year, with the arrangements of the Workers' Party. Does Jonas Gahr Støre think it is right that public spending should increase significantly much more than expected that the growth in the mainland economy should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1459	I've noticed that the Right thinks it's okay. I've never had a problem with it – if it's right and strategically invested, if it brings down the differences, gets up the activity, stimulates research, stimulates businesses, then it's a wise use of money. The right has doubted that this is an action rule, that it should not grow any more, and when they for the first time come into government with the party that shares this ambition, it actually happens. To the point that it's unclear what I really want: I don't usually experience people having trouble understanding it. I'm in favour of a government budget that contributes to activity, helps balance differences, helps solve the problems we have in front of us. There's no goal for us that the growth of expenditure should be just a little bit above or just a little bit below the limit of growth in the economy. Our goal is to meet the needs we have and the problems we have to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1466	The rhetoric is that this government gives tax cuts to those who already have the most. It had Gahr sturgeon several quotes about it in his post. It was a very good quote in the E24 on 7 October 2014, the day before the state budget was presented: «My form does not consist of money. I am the partner of a family business, Sinkaberg-Hansen AS, who is engaged in the breeding and processing of salmon. My fortune is boats, swallowing machines, breeding pains, several kilometers of rope and salmon in mares and vessels. In short, the workplace of 170 people," she says. ‘She’ is then Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, working party member of the Financial Committee. Does the representative Gahr share her view that the property tax is a tax that is not primarily about money, but about the possibility of investing in and developing Norwegian-owned companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1476	Since the representative mentions a co-representative, I would say that this co-representative is one of those who makes me proud to be a member of the Workers' Party, namely that she has managed to combine very innovative efforts to develop this country's resources with being involved in politics and being a socially engaged person. She has pointed out aspects of the wealth tax that I think we absolutely should debate. We've never thought that this treasure is perfect. She has also sat in a party and voted in favour of and participated in arrangements that have the wealth tax in them because we need it to finance development, also in the parts of the country where this enterprise is located, and to educate the people who can work at the facility that this company is developing. I have met some of the students who have had their chance, because the community and the municipality have been able to bet. One of the reasons they've been able to invest is that we have public finances to finance the welfare services that are necessary for us to have an innovative business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1482	I will ask the question to the representative Jonas Gahr Støre as follows: it may seem that the alternative budget of the Workers' Party has made it a sport that everything that the current government has received so far in terms of tax and tax arrangements should be zeroed out – with one exception. And one exception is the inheritance fee. It has continued the Workers' Party in its alternative budget, and it is. That's very smart. But with regard to the rhetorical points that the representative of the Workers' Party always comes up with, I will ask the following questions, which I expect to have a short and concise answer to: Who is most benefiting from the changes in the inheritance tax? When the inheritance fee is removed, who gets the most from inheritance – are they with high wealth, or are they with low wealth?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1487	We saw that the inheritance fee was paid, and it was a fee that did not apply very well. We reduced the number of Nordics affected by this levy by increasing the base rate year by year. We saw that those who had the greatest wealth, who inherited, dropped the inheritance fee, and that it hit a number of people who inherited a house or a cabin. That was not what was meant by the device. At the same time, we have noticed that the economists at the School of Commerce say that if we remove the inheritance tax and the property tax, as the representative is for, there will be one country in the West again with more favourable taxes on wealth than Norway. Yours should not come to Norway. Therefore, we believe that the tax regime of the future should ensure that those with the strongest shoulders, take the greatest burdens, that inheritance is a theme that we should somehow address, but that the inheritance tax that remained, as it was in 2013–2014, was not the most appropriate way to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1494	Both the representative Jonas Gahr Støre and the representative Marianne Marthinsen nemner Scheel-choicet, and the Scheel-choice deliver tomorrow. VG today writes in the lead position: ‘We need a thorough and prejudiced tax debate. Now we hope that all parties are conscious of their responsibility and dare to unite behind forward-looking solutions." When there is just a prejudiced debate, my question to the Labour Party is its leader: does he want to participate in a prejudiceless debate? Now he says, among other things: that the Labour Party has never said that taxes on wealth are perfect. Would he be willing to think anew in a possible tax settlement – even when it applies to the positions on which the Labour Party has been very sloppy in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1506	The answer to that is yes. We hope for a prejudice-free debate with soul, to say it in a double sense, that we can get into it properly, and that the Scheel Committee gives us the reasoning and context to see the whole. From time to time, at some regular intervals, we have a big deal in this tax room. It's done in a way that's characterized by wisdom, by the fact that we can agree on structure, even though we can have a slightly different view at the level. We're interested in seeing how the government will approach this topic, whether it will consider such a kind of broad settlement, discussion in a broad circle. Then the Workers' Party will set up, and make it free of prejudice, because we want the tax system to be effective, predictable, redistributive and fair, and that it stimulates investment in a productive direction for our country. Then we need to review from time to time, and we'll probably get a good basis for it through skilled professionals who deliver their position tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1513	‘A decent, safe and secure working life’ is a good slogan for the Centre Party and the Workers’ Party. On 7 May 2013, the LO Congress adopted an action programme addressing the EEA issue. The Congress adopted the proposal of a unanimous editorial committee, which includes:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘ILO Conventions, Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law must prevail over EU rules. Such a preference must be clarified between the parties to the EEA Agreement.» I agree with the representative Gahr Støre, who said that the lines of policy are not the description of the challenges, but how we intend to solve them. The question is this: does the head of the Labour Party agree that ILO conventions, Norwegian collective agreements and Norwegian labour law prevail over EU rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1525	The representative knows that the word ‘prince’ used in this context is about how the Court assesses different laws in relation to each other. I also refer to the EEA investigation, as the government that we both supported, presented, which showed that Norwegian working life has been successful over the years with the EEA Agreement, that our standards have been consistently maintained at a high level, and that we have had a great deal of freedom of action in this area. I believe that the ILO Conventions, which are different from directives adopted in the EU and adopted in an EEA context, should inspire legislation in our area. To date, this has also been the case for the main emphasis of the legislation adopted by the EU. Should there be serious violations of those principles, I believe Norway must be rigged and stand up to it if it is contrary to what is Norwegian interest. We have reason for that. Until now it has not proved necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1534	If there is one thing the change of government last autumn has contributed to, then it is a change of pace in the Norwegian climate policy. In order to achieve the 2020 targets, the representative Gahr Støre, in his speech, mentions that the Workers' Party is committed to the necessary maintenance effort on Norwegian rail, public transport efforts in major cities, cycling, the rotation of taxes and environmental taxes and the strengthening of the eco-technology system. All are measures implemented in the agreement between the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in addition to the fact that there are increased charges on air travel, there is an increased electricity charge, there is a doubling of the Green Fund, there is a strengthening of Enova – again – as it has been in the past. The representative Gahr Støre says that the Workers' Party wants a climate settlement and a new settlement to achieve the 2020 targets. What are Gahr Støre's concrete proposals for action The Labour Party wants to implement, which the government and the majority do not want, and which the Labour Party wants now, but perhaps has not been in favour of in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1541	I want to pay tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party for having made a large deficit budget in the climate and the environment something that has now become more decent – if I have to say so – even though in some areas one could also stretch a little further. What I have said about climate change settlements is that we have a 2007-2008 climate settlement that brings together a group of parties here on the Stortinget. We were a majority government, didn't need a climate settlement, got a climate settlement. Now there is a minority government that hesitates to continue working in the context of a climate settlement, even though they are seeking a majority with the two cooperation parties. My point is that the implementation of the climate agreement's objectives is that we should meet in that circle. And when the Minister for the Environment proposes our climate goals in Paris in 2015, it will also be natural to do so within the objectives of the climate agreement. Now it's not about setting new goals, but it's about agreeing on how we're going to achieve the goals we've set. And that's what I think we should be looking in a broad circle here in the Storting, it's going to be in tradition with the previous similarities we've had.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1550	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1553	Norway is a country with cooperation traditions. We are a peaceful country, a country where politics has high confidence in people and where political polarisation is low. These are good common Norwegian values, which also provide a basis for the budget to be adopted today. Thank you to the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party for constructive and good negotiations, which have resulted in all parties stamping on the budget, while at the same time there is broad agreement to continue the main actions of the budget, historical commitment to culture, school, health and justice. The right and the other bourgeois parties won the elections last year. We won because we pointed to challenges that Norway is facing, and because we gave answers that people trust. We won because we agreed to equip Norway for the future by doing important tasks together today. That's why we had a clear alternative to the red-green government, based on our cooperation agreement from the negotiations in the Nydalen. This is the basis of the budgetary agreement concluded by the government parties with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Some have also pointed out that the negotiations took a long time before the final result was presented. But unlike the last eight years, we have had real negotiations in the Storting. The government had promoted its government budget, the positions of the Christian People's Party and the Left were known, and through the media people became familiar with progress and priorities. It is important for me to stress that we succeed in reaching an agreement on next year's government budget because we are four parties that will cooperate. We have a common sense of value, we are committed to simplifying and renewing Norway. We are committed to having a strong and sustainable social security network. We are going to strengthen Norwegian business and create safe jobs across the country, and we are going to make sure that we start a completely necessary transition, from an oil-powered economy to an economy that can meet a future where we are less dependent on the revenues of the petroleum sector. Much of this is going to happen in new green industries. The State budget and the budgetary agreement facilitate this. In October, the government presented a budget that equips Norway for the years ahead and that solves important challenges today. The Budget Agreement of the Cooperation Party ensures and strengthens important efforts. The Left and Christian People's Party have influenced the budget in important areas. At the same time, the main act of the Right Party and the Advance Party is firm. We're getting a record bet on the knowledge society. Norway will never be the cheapest, but we're always going to make the best of ourselves. It assumes that we have a school where children learn even more, and a university and higher education sector with several world-class environments. It also assumes that we are increasing research efforts. This budget is an important step in creating a strong knowledge society. We need better quality and more patient care in healthcare. A safe and competent health system is a goal for any government. People will experience that the help is there when the need is greater. That's why we're going to create patients' health care. It's also important to meet a future where we're going to live longer, where we're getting older, and how many of us – fortunately – will live longer with sickness as well. Therefore, we increase the quality and reduce the waiting time for treatment. We need a large-scale commitment to transport investment and maintenance. The urbanization we experience today will increase in the next decades. This is positive for the environment, but also means that we need to invest more in rail and public transport in order for people to get home quickly and safely. At the same time, we need to have housing and economic activity throughout the country. The government’s aim is therefore to increase investment in transport beyond the national transport plan and to ensure that we are equipped for the future. Our budget means a significant commitment to and implementation of new major projects, but also takes better care of what we have already built. For the first time, the maintenance run on the state highways is reduced. The initiative will improve road safety and accessibility for citizens. We have had a lot of debate on the taxes on wealth, and we have had a lot of debate on competitiveness for Norwegian jobs. For more than 40 years, the Norwegian oil and gas industry has been a carrier of economic growth, employment and well-being in Norway. Looking ahead, however, there is a need to prevent a two-way economy and to ensure that we have a competitive business in the country when the oil age goes to the end. This is why we are focusing on tax relief, which is growth-promoting, which helps Norwegian business to cope better in the future. The world is changing, and Norway is changing. In some periods, changes occur faster, more dramatic and more unexpected than in others. We're in such a period now. Then it is important to provide both for a strong police force, for more policemen in the streets and for a good and visible police force. We will have a budget for 2015 that will make everyday life better, while at the same time we will have a budget that will equip Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1579	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1583	There is a need for a significant increase in health care in the coming years. We're getting more, we're getting older, and it's a tearing technological development. We presented a hospital plan with escalating to a new 12 billion. kr these four years – 3 billion. kr per year. Prior to the election, the voters had reason to believe that the Right also saw the need for increased resources in hospitals. In today's business life on 16 August 2013, we received criticism from the Right that our plan was too ambitious. On direct questions about growth, Bent Höie said: ‘Yes, it will come regardless of which batches are in government, if you want to cover up for growth, and of course we will.’ He confirmed that there would be more billions of growth in hospitals with the Right than with the Workers' Party, and in addition, the free choice of treatment would be dealt with outside the budget. Now we have the fasit. The right hand hand was an offer. They promised 3 billion. SEK, granted 2 billion. kr, and the money for the private is to be taken from the frame, not in addition. Can the representative of Greece explain why they do not follow up what they so specifically promised the voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1599	It is good that the representative Gahr Støre refers to the increase in the health budget, which is significant – 2 billion. extra for hospitals. At the same time, we know that the Minister of Health is now working on bombing a national hospital plan, which is becoming a very important document in order to get on with providing patients with better health care. We have put in place a number of measures to improve patients' ability to choose services. It's going to be spent on this in next year's budget. In the field of drugs and psychiatry, it's a good escalation. I believe that we are on the right track when it comes to stepping up the healthcare system. That the Workers' Party is able to raise an extra billion when they take in between 10 and 12 billion. kr in tax increases, is not very impressive. When we know at the same time that this is financed by removing absolutely all the tax relief that will contribute to the growth needed for a good health care, I'm not very impressed with that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1606	I understand that the representative of Helleland is not impressed. He promised more than three billion. kr, granted less than 2 billion. kr – what the math says. So to another question about this deal. In the climate field, a comprehensive cut is made – 306 million. kr for the purchase of climate allowances – contrary to one of the contributions we can and should make to international climate work. The Minister for Climate and Environment, who is now sitting in the Chamber – the question is not her – has said that such a reduction would not be in line with realistic budgeting and that it would be necessary to come back later in 2015 to do something about it. Does the parliamentary leader agree with the Right? He was one of the chief negotiators at this conciliation – does he agree with his own council that this was unrealistic budgeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1613	We do not make unrealistic budgeting when we sit and make a budgetary settlement. What is certain is that Norway is going to comply with the climate quota purchase agreements we have concluded, and we are going to fill in to get it right if it is too small. We believe that what is now happening is realistic in relation to the commitments undertaken by Norway. We can go in for this. We know that several other parties also want to cut climate quota purchases through their alternative budgets. Climate quota purchases are to be carried out in a good way, and I am sure that this government will help.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1620	With the budget agreement, an extra 207 million. SEK for kindergarten development, which is in addition to the 100 million. According to figures from the Ministry of Knowledge, the government proposed that 3 400 new kindergartens be built. The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the conciliation provides the basis for a further strong expansion of the kindergarten sector, and that several one-year-olds are offered children's playgrounds. It gives more families with children a better situation and a simpler everyday life. But how will the Right and the Government ensure that the kindergarten queues are reduced by this – that this money actually goes to the kindergarten sector and to the development of more kindergartens – so that parents of one-year-olds actually feel that they are now getting more kindergarten when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1627	I am very pleased with the agreement we have reached with the Christian People's Party and the Left in this area as well. There is an important strengthening of the kindergarten sector it is now being added to. I have – probably like the representative Bekkevold, with whom I had the pleasure of sitting with the municipal committee in the previous period – considerable faith in the municipal capacity to prioritize the free resources. Where there is a need for kindergartens, I am reasonably sure that those funds will be used to build kindergartens so that we can reduce the queues. One important element of this is that we also want a more flexible admission, that it allows children to start in kindergarten independently of when they are born in the year and when they need kindergarten. This agreement, this consensus, will contribute to it. So we know that in some municipalities there is overcapacity of kindergartens. Therefore, it would be wrong to make a direct designation of the funds. The right thing must be that municipalities are using their healthful mind and are building up kindergartens in line with their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1634	Creating values and distributing values has been key words to ensure a Cohesion Norway. This is now strongly challenged in two ways: point 1: lower oil price combined with very high oil dependence and point 2: the brutalisation of working life as a result of the freedest possible migration of labour resulting from the EEA Agreement. More and more people are experiencing the transition from Cohesion Norway towards Difference Norway. I have two simple questions for the representative of Greece: Does the representative agree that Norway has become too oil dependent? And does the representative agree that Norwegian working life is being brutalized?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1643	These are two simple but difficult questions. Firstly, whether Norway has become too oil dependent: the oil has given us a fantastic development of wealth and has laid the foundation for efforts to strengthen education, strengthen health, etc. It's important. But the government is very clear – and we say it in all documents, here in Stortinget too – that we have to make ourselves less oil dependent in the future, we have to have more legs to stand on, and we have to rust Norway for the future. That is why I am naturally pleased with the prosperity the oil has given us. But if we don't have the power to change and use the mainland, the forest and other important industries, we have a big problem. As regards the brutalisation of working life, I do not agree with this. But I agree that what we have to fight against is organised labour-life crime. It is an important and priority area for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1652	Increasingly fewer business people I meet around the country understand their business policy. Here, a large cut in the rules of leave is proposed, which is precisely designed to prevent important competences from disappearing from the country when the order book is empty. Here one cuts in regional development in regions that really need joint action to lift business. Here, no new seed fund is proposed in regions that really lack capital to invest in new business. Here you suggest that Norway should leave the Copernicus programme, in a sector where Norway is a world leader. Here one cuts into the marine value creation program, as we know is the big, new industry for Norway. Here, innovation in the forest industry is cut, which is an important industry in the representative’s home country, in travel, etc. To all those who now do not understand what the Right's business policy is: how will the representative explain the logic of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1659	The representative Knag Fylkesnes has made it his glan number to talk about the regional development funds, and that's important. But it's not so important when a traveler travels around the country and meets business leaders, and asks, what do you need? Well, I need better infrastructure, I need better roads, I need a railway that works, so I can get the freight on the railway, it's said. In the last period, as I said, I was on the municipal committee, and the regional development funds were involved. We have consistently built them up in the Right to build up the transport sector. We will continue to do so, because there have never been demonstration trains outside the Storting that have called for an increase in regional development funds, but there have been many demonstration trains out here – torch trains – that have required better roads, better accessibility, better infrastructure, more racial protection. That's the main priority for Norwegian business in District Norway to go even better. In that case, the funds that go through the county to regional development are not so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1666	The President makes it clear that there is one line left. If none of the parties that are larger than SV want it, the representative Knag Fylkesnes gets the last line.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1670	I notice that Greece is only basing itself on one of the cuts that I made remarkable – okay. Let's look at that cut. 450 million. kr has been cut off from regional development funds since the Right was involved in taking over power. Can the representative respond - yes or no: is there a corresponding increase to these regions on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1675	There's a historical investment going on, so it's significantly more than 450 million. kr extra that goes into the road sector. Now the Minister of Transport is sitting here and can confirm it. It is not that one takes a post relating to the county municipality and moves to another post concerning the county municipality, and says that it is the road. One takes a comprehensive budget for transport. As the representative asked me to answer yes or no, I could end there, but he had a number of other challenges in his previous question. When SV is going to teach Right on Enterprise Policy and uses industry as a witness to truth, I would be surprised if the representative has not met business leaders who have talked about the need for cuts in wealth tax and reduced taxes to ensure that we have an opportunity to operate competitively in Norway. The representative Knag County only talks about public measures to lubricate business. It's important. But the most important thing is that the infrastructure is in place and that the tax rules are to live with. That's what matters to Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1685	First of all, I will also be allowed to thank my government colleague from Right, Trond Helleland, for the cooperation, but I would like to thank not least the Christian People's Party Knut Arild Hareide and the Left's Step Skei Grande for very good negotiations. I have to admit that during periods I think they were a bit good dealers. But we got a very good result. This again shows that all four parties – the government parties that united the government coalition, but not least the Left and Christian People's Party – have got their clear footprint in the budget. That's what this is all about. So we've heard in some posts here today that some quite obviously forget that it's actually not that there are majority governments that have been the main rule of the Norwegian big business, but minority governments. If you think a few years back in time, before the red-greens at least in my opinion sat too long, we also had minority government. At that time, too, negotiations took longer before a final outcome was reached. But I have to say that the result is a good one. This will lead to increased patient treatment. When this government from the Right and the Advance Party joined, 270,000 patients were in line. The budget now being used here will lead to significant growth in patient treatment in Norwegian hospitals. This means that more people can come back faster after their illness, either back to work or at least back to a better everyday life, because not everyone comes back to work, but they also require and deserve good hospital treatment. So this government has also reintroduced what is called the golden rule within the health system, because it is actually the way that those sitting at the bottom of the table, especially those who are at the bottom of the table, especially those who are related to drugs and psychiatry – the patients we may least see, and who are shouting and complaining at least – may also have the biggest challenges. So this government has reintroduced the rule that the growth in drug use and psychiatry should be greater than the growth in somatic affairs – just to make sure that this patient group is cared for. In addition, significant funds are also earmarked for municipalities, just for drugs and psychiatry, because we know that there is a very often the biggest challenge in the community to get the best possible solution. This budget is also the district budget. It's a budget that shows that we have a government that pays and builds up District Norway, to ensure that we can still live all over the country, and to make sure that you get to work and at school through the growth and efforts of the government in the transport sector. I travel a lot around the country. In contrast to the feedback from the SV representative who was just in line with Trond Helleland, I experienced that one of the first things I am asked about and confronted with when I visit companies all over the country is: You have to bet on traffic, you have to make sure that we get the fastest and shortest possible way from our company and to the market. Yes, you tend to say that no one has it as busy as a dead salmon going to a market. And that's actually important. It was also a question of whether we are too oil addicts – it was the representative of Lundtegen who was involved. Yes, we've made ourselves very dependent on the oil. The oil has given us a lot of good, and we've been totally dependent on our oil sector. But at the same time, we also know that if we don't have the traffic in place, we will in the long term also have to struggle to bring forward the other necessary industries that will ensure that our well-being can continue to develop. It's very good in this budget. This is a budget for the future. This is a budget that also shows that we have a government that will also make the public sector more efficient. It is absolutely necessary for us to get the most out of the tax dollars of joy for the country's inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1706	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1709	The message from the government parties in the 2015 budget has been that with tax cuts we will meet the challenges of the future in Norway. I noticed that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party did not mention the tax cuts in one word, and that was interesting. In the case of the asset tax cut, a quarter of the tax cut is 0,1 pst. by the richest of the population in Norway. While the rich get tax cuts, most people have to blame themselves for any tax cuts being eaten by plastic bags and by more expensive kindergartens. The inhabitants of Bergen and Stavanger have to pay more taxes on property, and a number of municipalities throughout the country are planning to cut their services because of a meagre municipal structure. Can the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party explain why the wealthiest should contribute less to society, and how increasing the differences between peoples should make Norway better equipped for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1718	First of all, I could have imagined that the representative Helga Pedersen soon changed his script, so that we could get other questions as well. But I'm going to answer the question from the representative Helga Pedersen. Only in the case of property taxes: it's actually not the way the representative tries to imagine us, that it's just the richest ones that get away, and that's why this was done. The property tax is also discrimination against Norwegian ownership. I'm going to use a simple example that the representative can also understand. The Brunvoll company in Molde competes with Rolls-Royce, they produce thrushes for the maritime sector. Because of the property tax, the company Brunvoll has 1 pst. lower competitiveness than Rolls-Royce because they have to pay taxes on wealth. Rolls-Royce's owners don't. In fact, because of the property tax, the foreign ownership is premiumed in front of the Norwegian economy. It's unfortunate. I want Norwegian ownership of Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1725	I note that the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party does not answer the question. I'm going to keep asking until I get a good answer. The growth-enhancing effects of the government budget for next year are highly debated, and I record that the government parties have problems finding evidence that their tax regimes are generating growth and new jobs. What we know with certainty, however, is that the tax cuts affect our ability to finance well-being. The Progress Party has consistently rejected the need to choose between tax cuts and well-being. But in Bergen and Stavanger, the Progress Party and the Right experience that there is actually a connection between income and expenditure. And based on the rhetoric of the Advance Party, I wonder if reintroducing the property tax in Bergen and increasing it in Stavanger will inhibit or promote the growth of our two western villages.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1732	Now, I think it's important that we at Stortinget discuss the general and central policy, and then we have to discuss municipal policy out among those elected at municipal level. I think it'll be very good. I'm going to take a few examples of growth-enhancing tax reliefs. Both growth-enhancing tax relief and taxes are very important in order for us to ‘drive’ in the economy, but this must also be seen in the context of other measures. Clearly, when you increase the budget for transport as much as this government does, it is also growth-promoting in itself because you improve the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. When you do things with the charging system, you also make sure that people will be left with more of their own income, and that also reduces the pressure on the economy. Growth can also be achieved through that sector. As regards the municipal sector, even KS has stated that the budget presented by this government has been good. There are billions of free income for the municipalities, so it's probably not as black-and-white as the representative Helga Pedersen wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1739	I understand that the representative Nesvik thinks that Trine Skei Grande and Knut Arild Hareide were good dealers during periods, but that made us a good result. The Christian People's Party and the Advance Party agree that the profitability of agriculture should be increased, among other things. through ‘reforms’, as stated in the Cooperation Agreement. We also obtained a good result by not raising the VAT registration limit. It does – as the representative Nesvik himself had to – that this also becomes a good district budget, not only in terms of transport, but also in terms of job creation – whether you are a founder, have a small business or are a farmer. But we'll look forward to it. I would like to challenge the representative of Nesvik: What other reforms does he think about increasing the profitability of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1748	These include: on a significant increase in the scope of simplification and red tape. It is about looking at the number of support schemes available here, to make them simpler and more transparent, so that farmers and others can deal with them properly. We need to look at the legislation on the conversion of agricultural properties. We have to look at how you can get more profitability out of what you produce, that is. a greater freedom for the individual farmer to direct his own business beyond what is being done today. There are a number of measures that you want to come up with. But the most important thing in this regard is that we deal with the fact that we have an agricultural agreement. We're going to deal with the contract work, and we're looking forward to continuing that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1756	In February of this year, the representative Nesvik said that a ‘state funding of the care of the elderly’ is ‘a heart issue for the Advancement Party’. It can give older people and caregivers the help they need, no matter where they live. ‘Because of us the elderly will have a ‘better everyday life’, he continued. This heart attack has been transformed into a twenty million investigation project in the 2015 budget, which will form the basis for a government funding effort. At the same time, the government has opted for the municipalities in such a way – at least when we see it in relation to the tax failure notified – that we know that it will be cut off in the care of the elderly and in other care services out in the municipalities in the future. The question is quite simply: where has it become by the action that the Progress Party would have in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1765	I wish the representative Arnstad had read the entire budget. She had then learned that the government is increasing the capacity and quality of the care service by 568 million. kr. You add up to 2,500 happy days care places in 2015. You make sure that there are 1,070 day activities for people with dementia. Care is taken to start investigating the state funding of care for the elderly. We are investigating the statutory right to the care and care of the lucky day. We're actually doing a lot in this area -- yes, much more than the previous, red-green, government was able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1770	For many years, the party of progress has been adorning itself with a great slogan: ‘for the most people’. Now that the party has gained power, we see that there are not most people, but the few rich, who are the winners in the tax administration. If you have an income of between 300,000 and 500,000 kroner and no wealth, you will receive four poor hundreds of dollars a year in tax credits from the Advance Party. At the same time, expenditure is increasing for many. Kindergartens are getting more expensive, fruit is going to have to be paid for schooling, the elderly are no longer getting free dental check, and one will only be able to afford five plastic bags a week before the tax is eaten. How does it feel to be the parliamentary leader of a party that proposes significantly less tax relief for people most than what SV does in our alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1777	The problem with SV's scheme is that one takes it back through the charging policy, so that one does not get the effect that the representative Lightbakken is trying to produce what you want. But I'm going to deal with our budget and talk about it instead, so the Lighthouse can get to talk about its own. In fact, the arrangement of this government means that there are 100,000 fewer people paying taxes on wealth. In terms of the reduction in the rate, it became a little less than what was foreseen by the agreement, but there was still a decrease. It also means that 37,000 fewer people will be top valuers, because they increase their performance. The credit card limit increases by $50,000, and as far as I know, it's not the richest who need to increase the credit card limit, it's students and others who need it. In addition, the minimum deduction is increased, and that increase is most beneficial to those with the lowest incomes. So we're doing something for all groups, and all groups are getting better out today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1784	The core of my question is the question that the Progress Party has received many times today, and that they are going to get many times today, even though they do not want more questions about tax cuts – the issue of priority. No one questions that the Progress Party and the Right have the power to bring the tax level down. But it does not matter to ordinary people when it is not the level of taxation for ordinary people that goes down, but the level of taxation for them at the top. Then my questions are: why is it fair and reasonable that ordinary workers get 400 kroner in tax relief and higher expenses, while those who have the most in Norwegian society will get very much? And isn't it a pretty significant marketing blow to call such a policy for a policy for people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1791	No, the policy of the government is for the most part for people. It's for most people who find that you get more police in the streets every day, it's for most people who find that you get faster treatment in hospitals, it's for most people when we raise the minimum tax deduction, and it's when we increase the free-card limit to $50,000. As regards the taxes on wealth, which is the large single item to which the representative refers in the budget, it is actually a tax that goes beyond Norwegian jobs. We are quite honest that we want to prioritise Norwegian business rather than foreign ownership. We believe it is important, as in the example I mentioned earlier, that Brunvoll factories in Molde should have the same competitive power and the same opportunity to compete in a market that Rolls-Royce has, but because of the system of taxes on wealth that is there today, the English owners of Rolls-Royce are praised over the local ownership in Brunvoll. I think that is wrong, because it turns out that with local ownership you are more faithful to your community – to develop it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1798	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1801	I want to start by giving a warm thank you to the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The Christian People's Party is very pleased with the agreement that we have made. We also feel that the budget that Siv Jensen brought here at the beginning of October was very good. Before health we saw that there was a record bet on patient treatment. The Minister of Transport, as he was sitting in the hall, can also confirm that for once we felt that we had done something about the downfall, and that it was going in the right direction, and before knowledge and justice, there were significant bets made. Words that have been used as historical and that are correct. Nevertheless, the Christian People’s Party felt that there was considerable potential for improvement in the budget. We are therefore pleased that we have got a better social profile in the budget, that the most offensive environmental budget has ever been, that we have got a better family profile – it has not been mentioned by so many here today – and not least that we have improved the district profile. I'll come back to this. But I also want to say a few words about what is happening tomorrow. Then comes the Scheel selection settings. It's an event that I'm looking forward to. We know that the last tax reforms have been very successful, both by the Brundtland government in the 1990s and by the Bondevik II in 2003–2004. Both of these reforms have helped to improve the Norwegian economy effectively, and we have got more for them again. I also mean that the time has come to think of a new tax reform. Why is that? Well, when we adopted the previous tax reform, Norway had relatively seen one of the lowest corporate taxes of the countries we compare with. Today we are in the upper league, because so many countries have reduced corporate tax. That is why there is a need for a holistic review, and I hope that we can bring together the political Norway as we did in the early 1990s, as we did in 2003–04, and that we can also experience it when we now get the Scheel Selection and see the recommendations that come there. For the Christian People's Party, it was especially important that we did 1 pst. of GNI to the poor of the world. Today, we have four level 3 humanitarian crises. Never have we experienced a more demanding refugee situation than the one we have today. We actually have to go back 70 years in time and to the days of war to see a more demanding situation. So it's also a very good signal that is given when we receive more refugees. We have been committed to improving the situation for vulnerable groups in our own country. It's a pre-crisis, psychiatry, and a direct impoverishment. Through the agreement, the Left and Christian People's Party also received a pass for more to kindergarten, and a total of up to 400 million new crowns into kindergarten bets. It's important if we want a real choice for the smallest children. Today we know that there are many children who have been waiting, relatively speaking, for a long time in kindergarten. For the Christian People's Party, it is the freedom of choice that is important. There is no choice between kindergarten and cash support, but you can choose what you want. We also ensure a number of areas of action for people with reduced working capacity. We chose to do something about the drug treatment queue. The government's proposal was good, but we agreed to improve it, especially for the ideal actors in the russo. We also earn 60 million dollars. kr more for broadband deployment, one of several important issues showing an improved district profile. We are certain that for the first time there will be a reduction in emissions before the transport sector. There is a significant increase in budget spending on climate and environment, nearly 1.9 billion. kr. The reward system for both public transport and pedestrian and cycle roads is increasing sharply. Railway maintenance, operation and investment permits increase by 500 million. kr. Summing up, we're happy that we've been with and seen our clear mark on the budget. We feel that it has gone in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1829	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1832	In Lasse Hallström's film «My life as a dog», the twelve-year-old boy Ingemar philosophizes over his destiny. "You have to compare," says Ingemar and always concludes that he is better off than the dog Laika, who was sent out alone to die in space. When I hear the representatives of the Christian People's Party in this debate, it strikes me that they follow Ingemar's philosophy. The agreement has led to a better budget than the unsocial and climate-friendly starting point. But if the representative Hareide is rather adamant about his own alternative budget and the direction the country would take with it, with the budget of the Labour Party, does he not agree that the Christian People's Party would have had more to gain from working with the Labour Party in terms of social justice, international solidarity and climate policy – to mention some policy areas where the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have had a common basis of value – than they have been given in cooperation with the right-hand wing parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1839	Now I'm very busy finding out that just the budget that Siv Jensen brought here to this room had a lot of good sides, for example. knowledge, transport, justice and health. When it comes to international issues, which are also addressed here, and which are very important for the Christian People's Party, we are very pleased that we have achieved our goal of 1 pst. of GNI. We feel that we have also had something to do with the demanding challenges we face for vulnerable groups in our own society. So there's a little paradox here: we've not only been satisfied with the tax profile that the Solberg government budget had, but for the first time, we now experience that our tax model for taxing wealth is actually being distributed. I never experienced that under the red-green. Although we proposed it year after year, our model for taxing wealth was never distributed. He's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1849	But what is at the heart of my question and the background to it is that what the middle parties here have been able to do in the budget negotiations is draw this budget closer to what is the real political majority in this Chamber. My question to Hareide will then be: after the 2017 elections, would one have the hope that the Christian People's Party will have the ambition to join in and lead the country in the right direction, along with parties that will largely do the same, rather than keep the right parties of today, who want to go in the wrong direction, in the ears?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1856	What is most important for the Christian People's Party is politics. We really feel that we've seen our mark on this budget, that it's got a significantly better social profile, and that we've had the most historic environmental budget ever. I also mean that the red-greens have to take that we compare what they did for eight years, to what we actually get to now. One of the areas not listed here is family policy, which is very important for the Christian People's Party – we secure a real freedom of choice in that area. That is why it has been important for us in this round to be involved in a bet on kindergarten, because it is important whether there is going to be a real choice. In the last year’s budget – contrary to the wishes of the government of Solberg – we received an increase in cash support. With the kind of bets – both cash support and kindergarten – we also secure a real choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1863	The government's aim is to maintain a high level of international assistance to combat poverty and promote development. At the same time, it is important that aid actually helps in the fight against poverty and fosters development. It's the results and not the money that's being paid, like the count -- not least for having legitimacy among taxpayers in Norway. Although we know that aid can lead to better living conditions for the poor and, not least, can help in the face of crises, there are, among other things, Norad stated that assistance works, but not well enough. The Christian People's Party has been able to leverage additional resources for assistance. How does the Christian People's Party feel that this work should be prioritised and followed up, so that more people are lifted out of poverty and economic growth is created that benefits everyone?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1872	That's a good question. I think it is very important that we, who are engaged in international assistance, ask ourselves exactly how we can do this better. Still, I think it's right to have a goal that we're going to do and give a certain part of what's ours. There is not much we ask for either – there is 1 pst. of what is good for us. I feel that there are very few who say: Can't we reduce the budget for transport? In that area, we can ask questions: Do we make good use of our resources? Can we build the roads in a more efficient and better way? These are important questions within that area, without any need to say that we should allow less. When it comes to what has now been mentioned in the area of aid, we have become aware of a cautious concentration. This helps to improve the use of resources. But I also think it is important that we have become a few that there should be no humanitarian aid and voluntary activity, the non-profit sector. I think that would be ideologically wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1883	I know that the representative Hareide, like the undersigned, is very concerned with the rush and psychiatry and with those who are really struggling in society. My question to the representative Hareide is therefore linked to treatment for addicts. When this government took over the baton after the red-greens, more than 4,000 people were in line waiting for treatment for drug withdrawal, not just for methadone or Subutex treatment, but for treatment for drug withdrawal. It is very important that those in the field who want to be able to enter the treatment sites that can help the individual — preferably in consultation with a doctor or family member. This is precisely what makes the free choice of treatment very important. My question to the representative Hareide is: Does the representative Hareide agree that in the future we must give priority to those who are in line waiting for weaning, and thereby to the free choice of treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1890	I just said in my post that the budget that the blue-blue government has provided in the rush field is very good. Then I feel that through the agreement we have done even better. But it has been a bet from day one with Councillor Bent Höie as Minister for Health. Before the election, there was a 4,000-person queue that was motivated to receive treatment, but we know that if one has to wait four or five months, that motivation may be completely gone. Therefore, it has been important for us to use all actors – not only the public actors, not only the private players, but also the ideal actors. Here I think we need a variety of offers. We're different as human beings. Someone gets motivated and feels that the public has the right offer for them. Others feel that the ideal offers are. I'm positive to what I've seen from this government in this area. We will discuss free treatment options later, when matters come, and then we will take that debate. I'm happy with the effort we've seen when it comes to booze, but I'm glad that we're improving the arrangements further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1897	The Christian People's Party has had many cuts reversed. I think you have ambitions. For example, Hareide chose to boast of the broadband reversal. That was $150 million. NOK 50 million was cut. And then you added 60 million. NOK 110 million. kr. Then it's a $40 million cut. kr. It's not a bet, it's a little bit less cut. I think it's a bad account. I'll talk about the elderly. The Christian People's Party has a long history of being concerned with the elderly and of having a worthy care for the elderly, and the party has set it very high. There have been several heavy media cases in recent days that show the challenges we face in the care of the elderly. So we know that we have a big tax failure in Norwegian municipalities, last calculated at 2.8 billion. kr, but it gets faster. In order to cover the tax failure in Norwegian municipalities, care and care will be provided and the youngest sufferers will suffer. There's going to be hospitalization, there's going to be less care and care, there's going to be a worse offer. Would the Christian People's Party be able to participate in a race where we raise the incomes of the municipalities in the effusion, so that we do not make the elderly suffer unnecessarily?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1904	It's quite right that Battle Violence Vedum says here, that we have a strong commitment to the elderly. We also got a guarantee of dignity together with the red-green government, which we did not experience being followed up in practice. What is important is that we not only get the words, but that we also follow them in practice. That's why there's a specific point in the Nydalen agreement that we're going to find out exactly what we're going to do with the law, the legal fixing of sick home places and the day-to-day care places, which are very important to follow up in real life. Then there's a worrying development we see in the municipalities with the tax failure that's there. However, I would like to say that so far KS has pointed out that in many ways this budget is relatively good for the local government sector and its district. We have to follow evolution. We have not made a direct decision on what we do, but we have recorded the tax reduction, and we have also recorded that the budget is relatively well received.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1911	Let me start by giving Knut Arild Hareide credit for having managed to fix up again some of the cuts that we together were critical of when the budget came, for example. the transitional benefit and, at least for a while on the road, the child allowance for the disabled, and for obtaining more quota refugees and raising the aid rate. I'm glad. Nevertheless, we see that much of what the Christian People's Party has done is correcting things that went wrong. In this way, the Christian People's Party acts as a support wheel for a government project that goes in the wrong direction. It's e.g. clearly that the bourgeois majority does not have a policy to reduce poverty in Norway, as we have a common ambition to do. Therefore, I would like to ask whether Knut Arild Hareide acknowledges that the poverty policy that is now in the conciliation and in the budget is not enough to achieve the goal of combating poverty in Norway, and what his strategy really is that we, who share many of the same views here, can now work together to achieve better results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1916	I'd like to say that we're going in the right direction, but of course I would have liked a faster pace here. But I thought, for example, What we do in kindergarten is a positive move. There I find that those who have the lowest income have a significant decrease in payments to kindergartens. We also get a lot of free babysitting, which benefits a lot of people. It's a step in the right direction. We also do a lot with regard to the provision of holidays, but I would have liked to see that we could have done much more in those areas. We're going to be ambitious about this, and we'd like to invite you across the board to do something about it. So I'm going to say about the children's supplement that I feel and think that the solution that we've got there is very good, and I think that if only the children's supplement had actually been passed on, the debate probably wouldn't have stopped there. I think we've got a very good solution, which guarantees the legitimacy of the social security system and that we get a child supplement that's tested and that hits them badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1923	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1927	We are currently dealing with a government budget that is going to move in the wrong direction in terms of both social and geographical distribution. One might say that it will equip Norway for the future, but one does not equip Norway for the future by with open eyes increasing the differences in society between people and between regions. The greatest effort in the budget remains a very unsocial tax haven. Those who have the highest income and the largest wealth receive the greatest relief, and those who earn less than 500,000 dollars a year receive a relief that is almost undetectable. The rate of tax relief is resources that society could have used better in other ways, either by proposing targeted measures for business and research or by helping municipalities to provide better welfare services than they do today. The Centre Party has chosen to use the resources in another way in its alternative budget. We have spent the money on increasing the freedom of action of Norwegian municipalities. It will improve their ability to provide good childcare, better elementary school and better care for the elderly. That's what the big and important tasks of our society are. The Centre Party has chosen to contribute more resources to research, innovation, industry, fisheries and agriculture. It will contribute to the development of the existing mainland industry, but also to the transformation of new ideas into new jobs. Once again, with regard to municipalities and well-being, providing them with the opportunity to improve the provision of welfare and care for the elderly does not only help to increase the competence of municipalities. In fact, you have to actually increase the income of the municipalities, increase resources, give them the real opportunity to actually make a better offer. There is a kind of systematics in what this government is proposing in terms of cuts in district policy. We've seen it at the additional proposition that was made last autumn, and we're also seeing it this autumn. I will mention three examples that the Central Party has noted separately, but there are a number of examples throughout the budget. During last year's harvest and in the autumn, the Government has proposed to wind up schemes contributing to geographical distribution. One of them is a mechanism that contributes to the balancing of the electricity price. It's being wound up. It's going to give more expensive power, especially to people in the districts. Last year and this year, the government proposed to remove a total of 100 million. kr from that measure. The Left and Christian People's Party managed to slow down the speed a little bit by adding 20 million. kr, but this is a mechanism for cohesion between regions and between peoples in liquidation. The schemes that enable the counties to support business in their own region are also being phased out. It's going to mean less to entrepreneurs, and it's going to mean less to businesses in the districts. Last year and this year, the government proposed a total reduction of 450 million. kr in the regional development funds. These are not funds that are stuck in the county municipalities, these are funds used for entrepreneurs and businesses across the regions. The broadband bet is also an item that is exposed. It was not tried last autumn, but this year attempts were made to reduce the possibility of supporting broadband measures around the country. It must be said that the Christian People's Party and the Left made an effort to try to reverse the cut. Another area where there has also been a significant change in policy is the cuts we see in climate and environmental policy. There's going to be a credit to the Left and Christian People's Party because they've slowed down a part of it, but also here it's put up with bets that make you get a contradiction between what can be environmentally friendly and what is actually environmentally hostile. It is nice to change the car charges in an environmentally friendly direction, but when you do not adjust the price of petrol and diesel at the same time, it gives two conflicting signals. The negotiations – and to the extent that the debate here today – have shown that there is really a great distance between the parties. The Christian People's Party and the Left have slowed down, but they do not change the direction that the Advance Party and the Right have set. And they could have done much more with the Center Party and other parties in this room in terms of climate, environment, district, local well-being and health. To arm ourselves for the future is the reason. But then there are completely different challenges than those that this government is putting up with, that have to be addressed. It is about a more holistic and offensive climate policy, an active policy towards the mainland industry and a policy to balance differences geographically and socially.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1953	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1956	The government is committed to strengthening the multiplicity of private Norwegian ownership, and the wealth tax is a pure discrimination and a special tax on that ownership. It means a lot of ownership out in District Norway, where you don't have a lot of alternative investors who are interested in getting in. It has also recognised the Centre in many ways, and it writes in its programme: «Second, we want to eliminate taxes on wealth on working capital. Overall, these wealth tax reforms will involve reduced taxes on wealth. This may have a positive impact on both saving and industrial development. [[...]] But now I experience that both Battle Violence Vedum earlier today and Arnstad repeat the cheap rhetoric, which I call much of what characterizes the wealth tax debate. When was the Center Party lost faith in its own tax practices with local ownership, and that it actually means that those who invest in jobs live and work in the same environment as those who work in companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1968	If the Right really wanted a real debate with the whole Biggest on the wealth tax, the Right really should have waited for changes in the wealth tax of the Scheel Committee to come up with its report, and then we could see a number of things in the context of taxation and tax access to the State. Then perhaps one could also have had a reasonable discussion about the arrangement of the property tax. It is true that the Centre Party can look at aspects of property taxes, such as: in our alternative proposal, we have proposed to significantly increase the bottom line. But the problem is that the way the government has set this up, it's the 20,000-30,000 that make the most of society, which also gets the most of the tax. It's kind of a device that's both unfortunate and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1975	I did not really get an answer to my question. The government has signaled that there is a urgent need for other industrial developments in Norway, that the engine, as the oil has been, will be weakened, and that we need to invest in new industries as well. Then local ownership is crucial. I'm experiencing a huge double communication from the Center Party here, because how is the Center Party, if you remove property taxes on working capital, avoid meeting the exact same argument that they are now standing on the pulpit of the Storting and use against the proposals that come from the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1980	No, I think the Right has thought strategically about this. I think the Right has thought that if they don't manage to get through great relief to those who have the greatest assets now, they won't be able to do it later, because the Scheel Committee might be able to get a broader debate on taxes and tax admissions that makes them unable to get through what they promised their benefactors. I think the Right has been thinking very strategically about the property tax this fall, and I think it is sad to see that we cannot have a wider debate on the property tax and the arrangement on it – both the possibility of increasing the bottom-up deduction and possibly also the working capital – and not this reduction and the rate, which is what the Right has put its forces on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1985	As Minister of Transport, the representative Marit Arnstad claimed that road users are responsible for their own safety and that poor roads only contributed – only contributed – to 27 pst. of the road accidents. The progress batch has always pointed out that good roads are the most important road safety measure and has shown that four-field roads are the most effective of all road safety measures. It has subsequently become apparent that the State Road Administration has kept accident reports secret from the police and the courts, including the Arnstad regime. The question is: has Arnstad changed his view and today supports the government's initiative on the road, or does the representative believe the same thing now as before?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1992	I believe that in my role as Minister of Transport, I have basically said that for which there was also a professional basis from the transport authorities, namely that about. One third of accidents can be related to the road, about One third to driving errors and approx. One-third to the car. I believe that this was the professional basis on which I might have based what I said. With regard to what is now to be investigated, I think it is good that the Riksadvokat will resume the cases and go through them. I think that's absolutely necessary, important and correct. Otherwise, I must be allowed to say that when it comes to fighting in this country, the big changes did not come with the government change. The major shift in transport policy came when the National Transport Plan was dealt with in this Chamber in June 2013. It is nice that the Progress Party and the Right follow up the National Transport Plan, which was presented by the Red-Green Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e1999	I have listened both to what Mr Arnstad said, and before that to what Mr Vedum said, related to the property tax. I have seen that the Christian People's Party and the Center Party have had a similar starting point, namely to look at the distinction between working capital and capital taken out on private hands. Before the election, Vice-Chairman Ola Borten Moe was out with an outing in the nation, where he said they wanted to lower the property tax by 5 billion. NOK by increasing the bottom deduction initially to SEK 2,5 million. kr. That's our ambition in the first place, as Borten Moe said. So now I see that you're increasing the bottom line, but you're also increasing the rate, so that total taxes on wealth are raised. Does this mean a change in the central party's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2004	No, it doesn't, it means that we're concerned with increasing the bottom line because we think it distributive is the right way to go in terms of property taxes. That is what Ola Borten Moe has meant, and I believe that it is also the programme party of the Centre Party. With regard to the other parts of the property tax, I think it would have been interesting if we could await the Scheel Committee and go a wide round of taxation on both wealth, property and other tax bases. But I record that the Christian People's Party, which they say they want to do, today will support a proposal for a relief in the wealth tax that prejudges such an assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2009	Like the other red-green parties, this is – with very few exceptions – unrealistic cut of 2.5 billion. kr in the Norwegian EEA quota, but also very few other proposals for re-priorities on the expenditure side of the State budget. However, a small, but after the left's view completely wrong cut is to be found, and that is not to introduce a rule board. Unlike the Center Party, the Left has long been committed to putting in place a Norwegian Rule Council according to the Swedish success model. A Board of Regulators shall contribute to simplification and prevent public authorities from introducing unnecessary and/or complex rules, regulations and laws. I find it a little difficult to understand the resistance of the Central Party to this, but it is possible that after eight years in government, the party believes that everything that comes from public authorities and from the EU is of such good quality that it is only to be implemented without further delay. Why does the Center Party believe that there is so little importance to the simplification of Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2017	We believe it is very important to simplify Norwegian business. It may be that we disagree on the exact question of the rules, because it can be that you can simply decide to remove the laws and regulations without needing any advice you need to help with that problem. It may be that decisions can be made, both in the department, the directorate and, to some extent, in the counties and municipalities, without the need for any specific advice to assist in this task.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2022	It was this in a hurry that made me take a new line. So, the right is just following its program formulation. We have strong faith that local-based private – and diverse – ownership is very important for value creation around the country, and that the wealth tax is, in this way, a pure discrimination and a special tax of that ownership, in favour of foreign and state ownership. And the representative Syversen had a good point in the previous line that the Center Party is tightening up the wealth tax for those who invest out in District Norway, quite dramatically. But an interesting point – since I don't get the answer to that with working capital: Does the Center Party believe that they are so-called rich with money on book, and that working capital that is out in Norwegian companies is a completely different capital from what they are so-called rich with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2029	I have nothing bad to say that the Right is trying to implement its program; it's all right. But I'm saying that I think the Right Strategic has a little hurry – it's about getting this done as quickly as possible now, both before a broad tax debate gets through the Scheel Committee, and even before you start approaching the next choice. The strategic assessment carried out here is ‘fair enough’, but the Central Party cannot agree to a change in the property tax that results in the 28 000 in Norway, which makes more than 2 million. kr, gets several tens of thousands in tax relief, while at the same time making other tax reliefs which make them, for example. has less than 500000 kroner in income, gets a few hundred kroner. This type of tax relief cannot be included in the Centre Party. We are willing to discuss the asset tax regime, we have thought that the bottom line should be increased, and have proposed it in our alternative budget, but the provision of the property tax would otherwise have us waiting for the Scheel Committee to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2036	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2039	So far, this has been a pretty usual financial debate with a little bit of small-scale chatter and some point formulations and fun. However, we have talked about rather small issues in relation to the major challenges facing Norway and the world today. Over the past week, we have shown how vulnerable we are as an economy, when a slight change in the oil price has such a huge impact on our stock exchange, on our jobs and on our business life. At the same time, we see that we are facing enormous challenges on the climate side, where people today sit down and start negotiations to reach an international agreement, which is important, but where we also need to be able to transform our business into the challenges we face. Norway is not just going to turn from being dependent on selling a product like oil and gas, but we're going to turn our entire business, our jobs, everything that's about future challenges in terms of both climate and economy. This is the big backstop against which we're going to discuss the state budget, and then there are some things that get a little small compared to the big challenges. Because we're actually going to turn the entire Norwegian business around. We're going to create the jobs that we don't even know what's going on today, we're going to create the industries that we might not know what today, and we're going to start relying on new and more forward-looking forms of energy that we're going to develop in Norway. That's why it's right to have a big investment in research, a big investment in knowledge, a big investment in teachers getting the basics they need to give our kids the best start possible. That's why it's important to have a rule board, to have relief in tax, and less bureaucracy, precisely because this is the big change our society is going through. The government made a fairly good proposal in knowledge, and it's gotten even a little bit better when we got 100 new scholarships, when we got added to the basic grant, and when we got away with little old jokes that you're going to have student pay for students at Norwegian universities. It's these big bets that this is about. It's these big shifts in knowledge that we're talking about. And then I have to say that when some parties believe that the great promise within knowledge is a 40 million bet. kr to more gym in school, I disagree that that's the big difference and the big change. If you had now thought that introducing an hour of gym for everyone was the most important thing, it would cost 3.2 billion. kr, plus teachers. SV has a slightly more ‘decent’ way of introducing this, where they actually input what it costs, but to stand here and say that the great amount of knowledge is 40 million. kr to gym, I feel strange. We also need to renew the public sector. We need to renew our welfare state. It doesn't just mean we're going to add to the arrangements we have, but we're going to develop new arrangements that reach the weakest in society. That means that we have to dry to turn on some of the stones that have been laid before. But I am sure that once the Left has joined in and put its name in a budget, 46,500 of the poorest children in Norway will get cheaper kindergartens and all four and five-year-olds in low-income families will have free core time – get the promise we need. It's about investing in the weakest, and that's the welfare state we're going to be involved in developing in the future. Then I have to say that green tax change is not just tax tightening. There are some people who think that green tax change only involves tax tightening. That's wrong. It includes both reinforcements and reliefs. What we've got now with the government is a 2.7 billion change in tax. kr. It's more than the Workers' Party put forward. Now we have proved in two budgets in a row that we actually get to a larger green tax shift, we four together on the bourgeois side, than in the last two budgets, yes, almost the last eight budgets, with the red-green ones. In addition, the head of the Labour Party said in a very courageous opinion that the budget began to reach a certain propensity on the environment. Now it is that in most areas there is more in the budgetary agreement than what the Labour Party has managed to present in its field, and if they have some amount that is higher, the scope of the environmental, climate and support for environmentally friendly behaviour is considerably stronger in the alternative we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2065	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2068	When the budget agreement was in port, the representative Skei Grande said to the media that the left had achieved a green tax shift of 2.7 billion. kr, as far as the representative also repeated here today. It remains to be read in one case on the Left's website as well. Nearly half of this sum we know it comes from the so-called plastic bag charge. But not many days passed before I heard the representative Skei Grande say on Dagsrevyen that the plastic bag tax is not an environmental tax, but is about a clean deposit. The fiscal spokesman of the Left said here earlier today that it was a bit of both – containment and climate and environmental impact. Some have once said that there are two left-wing people, there are often three opinions. That is definitely the case in the debate here today, about what the plastic bag tax really is for. Can the representative Skei Grande clarify what is Left's view?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2077	This is the main replica of the Workers' Party to me. We are facing enormous climate challenges, we are facing enormous environmental challenges – and the Labour Party is asking me about the plastic bag price! This is the major issue to be addressed in an important debate on climate and the environment. I can explain this. Yeah, that's probably a little bit of both, as Terje Breivik says. It's probably not originally the proposal we had, but that's the proposal we managed to agree on when we were able to get a green tax change. The Labour Party never managed to get into any of its budgets. So the fact that we have to make compromises on something that maybe isn't at the top of everyone's wish list -- that's where we got it. And 2.7 billion. kr is the result of plus and minus, because tax change is also about taxes. The Workers' Party has never included this in its assessments. For them, green tax changes are only tax increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2084	Turning to another compromise: in fact, I would be allowed to thank the representative Skei Grande and the Left and the Christian People's Party for being able to prevent large and ugly cuts for those who have the least, i.e. lonely carers and have many children. The left and the representative Skei Grande went high on the track in the election and promised that with the Left and their influence, poverty reduction, and especially the poor kids, would be prioritised. How does it feel then to use all its negotiating power to achieve that there is no ugly cut? Is the representative of Skei Grande satisfied that this is what has become the content of the poverty pact of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2091	Then the representative should have heard my post. One of the big bets to the Left and one of the things we went to the elections is that we think kindergarten for the very poor must be cheaper. For the first time, we have managed to have a majority in this Chamber so that the poorest in this country will get cheaper kindergarten. For the first time, we've had a majority in this Chamber to give free core time to all four- and five-year-olds in poor families. That was our main thing, we've been proposing this for eight years, and for the first time we actually get a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2097	In the cooperation agreement in Nydalen, the climate and the environment became a major focus, and the parties agreed to overfulfill the climate deal. There has already been a move in that direction in good cooperation between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the Christian People's Party leader, Knut Arild Hareide, said a little ago in this debate that this budget was the best environmental budget ever, and that for the first time the discharge would be within, for example. the transport sector is declining. But we know that it is demanding to achieve the targets we have set for 2020. I could be interested to hear the representative Skei Grande reflect a little about what measures she thinks are important towards 2020 in order to actually achieve the objectives we have set ourselves through the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2102	I think it's very important that we dare to take the consequences of what a green tax commission will come up with. Then we have to actively use our tax and tax systems to get to those conversions, make it profitable for people to choose the green solutions and make it attractive for people to choose away what has negative consequences. I think we need to be able to actively use our tax and tax systems to bring about green growth. Then we have to turn our business around from the oil-dependent business we have in your constituency. We must be able to turn that competence into new energies, more forward-looking energies and generate growth in the green sectors in the future. This is the transition Norway is going through. It's going to be painful and big, and we need to be able to actively use our tax system to achieve it. That's maybe one of the means I think is going to work best.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2107	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of the Skei Grande for the debates. I can sign that she is a skilled negotiator, as I said in the pulpit instead – sometimes well capable. But that's what happens sometimes. My question is related to what I have heard in the Chamber today – at least until the representative Trettebergstuen went to the pulpit, well to note – an invitation to both the Left and the Christian People's Party that you were apparently closer to those with whom you agreed to a settlement. In this regard, I would like to ask a question to the representative Skei Grande: the Workers' Party, in its alternative state budget, adds to tax cuts of over 14 billion. kr. Very well-known has not been the Left's policy, because there have been tax cuts. I do not know if the representative can stay a bit at that offer in the light of the increases to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2114	I think that if we're going to get to the conversion of Norway that we've been talking about, we also need to actively use our tax system to get to that value creation. Therefore, the left has been to turn the property tax down. We want in our option to do it in the bottom subtraction, while the government wants to do it in percent. We found a good solution that we can stand for in the negotiations. Agreeing on a government budget is not just about agreeing on good purposes, it is also about how to use the tax system to bring about the changes that are needed. I think it is commonplace in any environment that the property tax has worked poorly for Norwegian ownership and for the development of Norwegian jobs. We want that conversion, and we want the green conversion that we need. Then we realize that we have to negotiate. I would like to give back to one of my co-dealers that there was probably some tough roof, but it is clear that we need to look both at our tax system and on the expenditure side if we are to be able to renew Norway after the three indicators I mentioned in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2121	The Constitutional Jubilee is celebrated this year, and the Constitution says, among other things. an active contribution by the State to the effective ability of individuals and groups to express their views. The task of the State is extended from passively refraining from intervention to actively ensuring citizens’ ability to express their views. This implies an obligation to facilitate the contribution of channels and institutions to an open and informed conversation — in short, an overall state responsibility for building a public space that creates the actual capacity for expression. In this way, the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the Left supports us in the fight for press support. But how does the Left want to preserve the media diversity in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2126	I don't think Norwegian politicians have one and only one solution to achieve this. There are major changes in the Norwegian media world, and we must increase freedom of expression, we must raise the principles of breadth and diversity in terms of which this House has made bold decisions in the past. I believe that VAT and the fact that we were able to reach an agreement on a double inquiry into budgetary negotiations become one of the keys to that development. I think the government might also know where the majority of people are in this case. Otherwise, it's important to have a wide-ranging public broadcasting programme, and I think we need to look at how we're going to support quality journalism in the future too – whether it can be done in more creative ways than politicians have managed to achieve. That we have a width in the Norwegian media, we saw yesterday, when we had continuous hymnsong at NRK2 and chess at NRK1. There are at least broad public broadcasters we have around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2133	Trine Skei Grande has fought for the environment in the budget negotiations. I am pleased, and I support everything she has received – minus the bag fee. The left has helped to make the budget greener, but there is still no green budget measured against what we need to achieve in order to achieve the climate targets in 2020 – and even more in the longer term. That's why it's been a little difficult to meet the Left with the roughness I really want, because I think the Left has oversold this budget: it's now a historical environmental budget, it's better than anyone ever has. I don't think the environmental issue is served by that kind of exaggeration. That's how the budget is significantly lower on growth on the railways compared to the road, if you look it up against what the red-green government did. There are real cuts to the bike path on the highway, etc. Stepe Skei Grande has presented this as the first budget to reduce emissions in the transport sector. But it's wrong, because the emissions went down in 2013. Why does the Left need to say things that are not true in order to market the environmental results of this budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2140	I will honestly admit that I think it would have been easier to agree on the positive measures with SV, although I am not quite sure if we had agreed on the income side of the budget in the same way. I guess that's a little bit of the core of the challenge. Now we're going to get to the biofuel market that we need. I think that's important, and I think it's measures that lead directly to decline. We have had a decline in the economic situation in the country in the past, but these are political decisions that lead directly to a decline. For the first time in history, in fact, the aftermaths on the railways will go back. For the first time, we've really come to the height of the rail challenges. Everyone can sit down with the Left's own budget and see that we had managed to get further, but we all have to negotiate to get to the goal. But I understand that SV is also a bit spinning when the working party tries to appear as greener after they have gone out of government with SV, than what they did when they were in government with SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2147	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2150	The priorities of a State budget, and of an alternative state budget, are the clearest message from the United Kingdom about what we think is most important. The majority of citizens have shown what they think is most important through both the government's draft budget and the conciliation process. Even after the conciliation, it is clear that lower taxes on wealth are the top priority for citizens. The Christian People's Party and the Left have made the budget less unsocial, but not social. The most important thing is not school and health; the most important thing is lower taxes for the richest. Even after the agreement, it is clear that the percentage growth on the road is higher than the growth on the railway – in sharp contrast to the red-green years. The Christian People's Party and the Left have made the budget greener, but not greener. The most important thing is not the green shift, the most important thing is more money on the way. The alternative draft budget for SV is a budget for a completely different course. Putting the most important thing first means for us to say no to more market power and reject the egoism of the richest. We will put people in front of markets, and our proposal is based on the recognition that the best in this country we have created together. It's not despite a strong welfare state, equality and small differences that we have one of the world's most productive economies, it's because of the community. Community works, and we have to share to create – not just vice versa. The draft budget for SV is a proposal for a strong redistribution. First of all, we want less economic inequality. That is why we are greatly increasing taxes for those with large wealth and high incomes. At the same time, we will give larger tax credits to anyone who earns less than NOK 600 000 than the Right and Advance Party proposes. At the same time, it allows us to increase green taxes for environmental reasons without increasing social disparities in society. The green shift must be fair in order to succeed. Second, we want to redistribute industries. We are increasing the taxation of the financial industry and of the oil companies. At the same time, SV – of all parties on Stortinget – proposes the lowest tax rate on other companies. This will help create tomorrow's jobs, promote value creation rather than speculation and reduce dependence on oil. Thirdly, we want to redistribute from private consumption to public consumption. We believe the time has come for a new major reform, the all-day school. The full-time school is a learning reform, a health reform and a cohesion reform. Combined with a resource standard that would provide 2789 new primary teachers, the full-day school will provide more time for teacher-to-student meetings. Exercises are to be done at school instead of being left to families with completely different conditions to help their children. All children should have healthy food and physical activity at school every day, and there should be a daily school health service. The little girl who goes to school without food is our responsibility. The little boy who doesn't manage the school because he never gets help for the homework is our responsibility. Spending time on the smallest schoolchildren is already better than today’s SFO must be the next major reform in the Norwegian welfare state. We were promised new ideas and better solutions. We were promised implementation. It turned out to be an implementing force on behalf of the most privileged in Norwegian society. They are the winners in this budget, as they are always when the Right comes to power. These are the same old ideas and the same old class policy that characterizes this government's budget. The slogan 'for most people' is revealed as the marketing curse of the times. Most people get so little tax credits with the Progress Party by the power that it only reaches a few plastic bags a week, and the country's grandchildren have just received Christmas cards from the Prime Minister and Siv Jensen with notice of increased kindergarten prices. That way, we're all invited to a split layer for lower taxes to the upper class. This government is pursuing a policy that is unfair, short-sighted and petty. Today we are voting instead of a budget based on justice, long-term solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2180	Given the global consensus about putting socialist ideology on the scrapper of history, I never stop to wonder how well the socialists have confidence. SV promises everything to everyone without worry. You have to almost below the barrier to find someone who thinks it's possible. In 2013, the government SV was part of, put forward a perspective message – a very good message. It explains the challenge of maintaining public welfare systems at today’s level – I repeat, at today’s level – because in the future we will expect higher quality. The perspective message is ready: Work is the key to future well-being. But it doesn't stop SV. They actually want to spend money on working less – they suggest it in their alternative budget. I just wonder how it corresponds to the perspective message SV agreed to submit in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2187	I have strong self-confidence on behalf of the values SV stands for, not least because it is the values of the left-hand side that have so much influenced Norwegian society, and that makes our society differ from many others – with less differences, with a stronger welfare state. Our society is a living proof that community works. We've provided a budget that doesn't give more to everyone. We have provided a budget that represents strong redistribution, where we are not afraid to take from those who have the most, to which the Right will give more. When it comes to the perspective message, I'm used to the right-hand side reading it selectively. If one looks at this message, one sees that we have important choices for the future. We can choose to let private consumption multiply in the decades to come, or we can choose to use the strong productivity growth that comes, in other ways. For example, we can do this. parts of the work, choose to take out the growth in more leisure time instead of in more consumption. It is quite possible, but it is a political choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2196	The representative may ask another question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2199	Sure. Thank you very much. I record that the representative Lysbakken answered – as far as it was – the question. We do not read the perspective message selectively. I'd rather say that it's the Socialist Left Party that does, which thinks it's possible to work less, but at the same time preserve the well-being we have today. Another area where the Socialist Left Party shows very good self-confidence is in the field of poverty policy – despite the fact that the poverty policy of the previous government cannot exactly be called a success story. Audun Lysbakken's previous party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, had to be halfway out in the Red-Green government period just regretting the failure of the Socialist Left Party's poverty policy. It's easy to become polemic in these debates, so I'll try to ask a question that doesn't give the classic left hand answer: give more to those who have the least, instead of taking from those who have the least! What lessons did the Socialist Left Party draw from the Committee on Disadvantages and the Committee on Welfare and Migration, and how is it reflected in their alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2210	I think the representative Heggelund should reflect on the following: Throughout the whole century we have behind us, working hours went down, while productivity went up. It's a pleasure that the representative can think about the next time we meet in a row. And then he can assess whether there might be anything in that it keeps going on like this in the century that's coming. I look forward to following up this. It's innovation that leads to productivity. It doesn't keep up with working hours – that's not what it's about. Productivity has increased, despite a decrease in the number of hours worked. It's a trend that's been there throughout the history of modern society, and that's going to continue. No one has regretted SV's poverty policy. What we have regretted is that we did not get any more impact on SV's poverty policy, which is about increasing the income of the poorest families – the only way to bring down child poverty. I would be a lot less high and dark if I had represented a party that targeted attacks on the economy of the poorest families and created new poverty traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2221	SV increases the electricity charge by 2 cents in addition to the government’s own proposal – a charge that cannot be claimed to have a social profile and which has been frequently criticised in recent times. SV increases the fare by 100 SEK per seat – a fee that can only be claimed is district hostile. Taxes on general income are reduced from 27 to 20 pst. - That's interesting. So this tax is going to allow for a huge tax burden for those who make dividends, and this is exactly what SV has criticized since October 8th, that they get the most. But they grant themselves to those who have the most. Has SV thought about the fact that they give large tax credits to those who already have a lot? Is it good distribution policy according to the SV's own programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2228	There were many things at once, but I would recommend the representative to take a look at the distribution tables in our alternative budget line and compare them to the government's arrangement. Then you'll see that the reliefs given in our arrangement lead to normal families having a greater economic space than the green fees take from them. This is precisely an important reason why we want tax relief for people with normal incomes, so that it is possible to carry out a green shift in a socially fair way. The representative is quite right that the increased electricity charge goes unsocially. That is why this has to be compensated. Similarly, we have a number of tax increases for those who have the highest income – employee income, capital income, wealth – so that we get a real redistribution in our society. Those distribution tables are just looking up. They show very clearly that SV has a policy for people most, while the Progress Party has a policy for the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2235	I could continue the ideological debate – the light-baked, all-day school in his post. Instead, I want to challenge two areas where I feel that we are quite close to each other. It applies to the one-time benefit which in the SV's alternative budget has increased by 210 million. kr. Would you say that the representative Lighthouse is pleased with the escalation that has now occurred in the last two years? This is odd when some actually receive around NOK 40000, while others achieve NOK 500000 – a significant difference. Kristin Halvorsen has also pointed to this earlier. This is my one challenge. The second is what the Christian People's Party has now achieved, which applies to several teachers from the first to the fourth stages. Are there any ideological differences around this? How does SV stand out in that debate? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2244	First, yes, I'm glad that the Christian People's Party has had the advantage of increasing the one-time benefit – that's absolutely necessary. In the years when SV was in government, we prioritised a major expansion of the parental leave, but before the previous election, we said by increasing the one-time benefit very clearly from the fact that it is time to give priority to those who do not have that kind of rights. We would prefer a 2 G social benefit as a running minimum social benefit, which would have been an even better solution, but I fully agree with Hareide in this matter. I'm also very happy that we've taken a first step towards more teachers for the smallest children in school. It's a follow-up to a policy that we started at the other end of primary school: 600 more teachers in high school. The Christian People's Party and SV are the two parties on the Stortinget that most clearly say that we need a resource standard, we need fewer students per teacher to create more time for the meeting between teacher and student. So that's where we agree with the heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2251	I want to follow up what the representative Hareide was into, what's going on in teacher's density, because I think both SV and Left agree that we need good teachers in school, and we need more teachers in school. Therefore, it is important both to get more teachers and to pursue further and further training of the teachers we have. Then we're probably a little bit in disagreement about what should come first, and we in the left have committed to spending money on the further education of the teachers who are in school today, not least the many thousands of so-called non-qualified teachers. What I'm registering is that SV spends the same money, at least a lot of their money, putting in more teachers at school, and what I'm worried about, and I hope that the SV's manager has a good answer, is how we're going to manage to increase the teacher's density without it being done by more unskilled people, and how we're going to manage to lift the non-qualified people we have in school today, so they're also qualified to teach.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2258	Firstly, we believe that it is possible to continue the promise of continuing education, which our government began, and which the new majority has strengthened, while increasing the teacher's density. But of course it's a matter of priorities. We have a different tax policy, which also means that we have a different space for action in the welfare state. But we think it's possible to increase the teacher's density now, especially because there are so many teachers who have left the profession. We know that there's one thing the teachers really want, there's an increase in teacher density, that's getting more colleagues, that's getting more room to work with each student. The recordings we've received from the teachers' trade unions indicate that those who are themselves in this every day believe that this is possible. Then, of course, this will also have to be linked to better conditions for teachers, as I think it is a broad majority of the Stortinget who want to be, and a resource standard in itself will give teachers better hands when they are faced with demands for better conditions for their colleagues and members.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2264	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2267	Norway is a good country to live in for most people. We still have high employment, low unemployment, and we have had a comprehensive oil and gas business, which has made it possible to build a good welfare society – a welfare society at the top of the world. We will continue to have large revenues from oil activity for many years to come, but oil activity will no longer be the engine of our economic growth. We've seen that clearly in the last few days. A high level of costs has slowed investment. In the last few weeks, the oil price has fallen strongly, causing ring-fences for the entire mainland economy. The government closely follows developments in the international economy in general and in oil prices in particular. In recent years, we have seen more examples of the fact that rapid international coverage can also be of great importance to Norway. We know that the oil price can turn and rise again, but the picture is still clear: we are living in a more troubled time, our uncertainty is greater, and really the debate should be slightly different from what we have now. Two years ago, we debated oil dependence and the division of the economy. Today, we don't have a two-part economy in the same way. We have a cost challenge and a competition challenge for all parts and all sectors of Norway. Oil dependence is going to be less naturally – simply because the activity and impulse of growth are less. Our challenges are to ensure that the smaller impulse that comes from oil activity does not mean that the Norwegian economy is slowing down, and that growth and our ability to finance well-being are thus slowing down. It is therefore essential that new industries should take over as an engine for growth in the years ahead. And with the uncertainty we have around us, we need it even faster than I think most of us thought for a few years back. Norway needs more bones to stand on in the future. We need different types of industries that can take over as growth impulses after oil and gas activities. That is why we also need budgets with stronger instruments, to create more investment, to provide more innovation, and to provide more business start-ups in Norway. The new jobs, which we will live on in the future, must be both green and knowledge-based, because they are the most lasting long-term jobs for a modern society. We're in front of a green shift, and we're in front of a low-emission society. While we are concerned about it – providing jobs, growth and future welfare – we need to do important tasks today. We're going to close holes in the security network that we have, and that we see people falling through every single day. Many of these challenges have been known for many years. It should have been done more to make the country more prepared for the changes we now see, but the more important it is not to lean back and believe that 2013 was the magical year. The 2013 instruments are not the tools we will need in 2015, because we are going to prepare the country for changes that we are now seeing, and it is important to make the right choices today. We have created a government budget that makes Norway more robust for the future. I want to thank all four parties on Stortinget for bringing our main profile through the budget. Yes, changes are made. Four lots shall have their mark on a State budget. It's how a minority government lives in good cooperation with other parties. But the main profile, namely to make sure that we prepare for the future, is taken care of with the great efforts we see in different areas. The State budget takes into account the uncertainty that many families are experiencing now, because they do not fully know what these changes in the oil price and the outburst can lead to for their family economy. Education, research, innovation and innovation are more important than ever. Knowledge is the new oil for Norway, and in 2015, twice as many teachers will receive continuing training, compared to 2013. This means that students will be able to meet teachers who are professionally and professionally up-to-date. Knowledge and learning in school will go up. The research and education budget was good from the government, but it has become even better in the meeting with the Stortinget. It's increasing by 4.5 pst. Next year. For the first time we use over 30 billion. kr to find new answers for the future. This is a completely different pace than what we saw in the years we've been behind. We are facilitating the creation of new jobs by entrepreneurs and businesses. Future-oriented and industrial research and development systems are being expanded. BIA funding, national establishment grant, programme for commercialisation of research results, FORNY 2020: All these actions have been strengthened. The tax FUNN scheme has been extended. This budget helps more entrepreneurs and innovators to test their ideas on the market. This is absolutely necessary if the new, safe jobs are to be created. To convert Norway, we rely on someone to bet. Therefore, we make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs by reducing property taxes. The transport budget is over 25 pst. greater than when we took over. Together, all of this is an important contribution to future value creation, to job security and to ensuring a good welfare society. In order to convert Norway into a low-carbon society, the cooperation parties provide a new and better direction in climate policy. Many in our society have a great commitment to climate, and it is important that they pay off being climate friendly. With this budget, the renewable industry is given a boost. Depreciation of wind, better tax rules for small energy, as well as the government's important decision to have two new transmission lines, Germany and England respectively, allow renewable industries to become more profitable in the years to come. It'll be cheaper to choose a car that's climate friendly. The railway bet is record high. We are expanding the reward system, and we are focusing more on public transport and urban cycling routes. Making climate-friendly choices in everyday life should be made easier. Green bets are important, but we also need to try out new green ideas. We are not going to meet the climate challenges without a business that comes up with the new ideas, and that we are able to move them from being ideas to becoming actual technological solutions that can be used – that is why the climate technology fund is strengthened beyond the climate agreement, and the environmental technology system through Innovation Norway is being expanded. At the same time, we are solving important welfare tasks today. We're not happy that so many people are out of work. We have to break those patterns that make people fall outside. School must put in an early effort. The dropout in secondary school is often associated with a lack of follow-up early in primary school. Health services must provide more rapid assistance, while serious illness can still be combated and before relief from mental illness becomes severe mental and long-term absence from work. Next year, the first interdisciplinary diagnostic centre will be opened for people with long-term pain and fatigue. Today, patients who experience being a caste ball in the system now have a simpler meeting with health services. Drug supply and mental health protection are given a special boost. Drug addicts and mentally ill people have not been given sufficient priority for many years. Now that group is at the top of the list in introducing free treatment choices. This will allow more people to get help faster. We are increasing the rate of construction of hospitals. Increased investment grants produce results in municipalities now. This means that several older people can get a decent offer. Overall, there is a historically high growth in health services. This allows more people to be treated and quality to be improved. I could still frame up a lot of good examples of what we're doing, for example. increased grant scheme for pupils with the lowest incomes. But it is important to stress that it is not just the economic situation that is more uncertain in the future. The safety situation globally and in Norway has changed in the last year. It is therefore important that we also continue to strengthen preparedness to ensure our security. We're going to be able to meet the new threat scene and have a quick and accessible near-police. To create a society with opportunities for everyone, we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We must create the new green jobs and at the same time strengthen our social security network. The State budget is an answer to both of these challenges – an answer that is actually even more necessary than what we saw when we started working on the State budget itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2328	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2331	The Prime Minister says that the debate should be different, and she also said that the solutions from 2013 do not necessarily apply today, and in her speech she spoke the most about the bets for which there is a broad majority in this Chamber, for which we are all going to vote, and for which most have within its alternative budgets. She didn't use one word on the main bet - the billion bet on the cut in the property tax. But I want to come back to an area that I followed with interest in last year's election campaign, namely the hospital grant. That's where the Workers' Party put a scheme where we added up to 3 billion. kr per year for four years. After that proposal was presented, the Right – with Bent Höie at the head – said that there would be a billion-dollar increase in hospitals with the Right, and in addition he promised that the funding of a so-called free treatment choice would be at the top of the activity. The right hand offer was an offer: you promised 3 and granted 2, and the free choice of treatment comes within the framework, it is even smaller and it must also be made more effective. I would like to hear the Prime Minister say that they have granted less in crowns than they promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2338	Let me first say that when I refer to many important things, I'm glad that the Workers' Party now sees the need to bet on innovation, now sees the need to bet on school, now has put a number of new proposals on the table, which they didn't do when they were in government. It has obviously been healthy for the Workers' Party to stand outside the government for a while and then renew its policy. We are happy if there is a signal that we will have a broad consensus in the years to come, but I hope that I do not see a setback if the Workers' Party comes back to the government power, that it is not these matters that are prioritised, but other matters. As regards the question of the financing of hospitals, this is one of the very best hospital budgets submitted. And no, it's not 3 billion. NOK, as we said in the election campaign, but we're going to measure how much we've given to the hospitals when we're done with this four-year period. We didn't say we were going to grant $3 every year. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2345	You said 12 billion. NOK over four years, so you've added up to a completely different race. But there are different goals for money use, and I could have an interest in clarifying one thing: The representative of Greece was asking me to point out that in our budget, public money was growing more strongly than the growth of the economy. Yeah, that's right. It has never been a decisive goal for the Workers' Party. That's how we spend the money – a concept that the Prime Minister has also used in the past – that counts that investment is productive, that we focus on solving tasks, that we get to work and that we support our businesses. But for the Right, it has been a goal – and for the Progress Party, it has been a crucial goal – that public expenditure growth should not grow more than the growth of the economy. Now it does so in this budget, and then I want to hear from the Prime Minister: does it mean that you have left this goal, that you now have a pragmatic view of it? Or does that mean that, in the future, one will stick to the objective that public money will not grow more than the growth of the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2354	It's rare I used to say that, but I'm especially pleased with this question, because now I've tried to counter-argument from my place up to several times when I've heard this say. Yes, when the bourgeois government joined in 2001, this was a goal, but we have had a review in the Right of how this is related to the phase-in of more oil money. For this reason, several years have passed since we left this as an overall objective, for it is not possible to combine the phase-in of more oil money with the objective that the growth of public expenditure should not exceed the growth of the state budget every year. In the long term, it's important that we keep an eye on the balance, but in the short term, we can't do that at the same time as we phase in oil money. So it's been several years since the Right concluded that this can no longer be a parameter that we're depending on. Because that was the time when we all agreed – at least the Right Party and the Workers' Party agreed – that we should not build up the oil wealth, that we should not use the return. When we do that, such a measure will be too sloppy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2361	I'd like to thank you again from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister saw very much in the future in the speech she made today. I've already quoted from today's leaders in VG in this room, but I'll do them one more time, because I don't always have that possibility: ‘We need a thorough and prejudiced tax debate. Now we hope that all parties are conscious of their responsibility and dare to unite behind forward-looking solutions." That's because the Scheel selection comes with its setting tomorrow. The Prime Minister's good friend and former Minister of Finance, Per-Kristian Foss, supported the previous tax compromise, which was very good for Norway. That's what Sigbjørn Johnsen did in the early 1990s. Both were compromises with great breadth in this room, which has given us a better economy, a more efficient economy and more at work. Will the Prime Minister now also take an initiative on a new tax compromise, when we now get a basis through the Scheel Selection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2377	I agree that we should have both a good time and a good review of the proposals that come from the Scheel Committee. Then I would like to stress that, for example. the tax reform made in 2005 was never fully implemented because there was a compromise that the dividend tax would replace the property tax. With that we got a red-green government. The tax on dividends and wealth taxes has therefore lived side by side, with an additional reinforcement of the taxation of ownership in Norwegian enterprises under the red-green government. We are concerned that we must have a good basis for a new tax reform. I want to say that the starting point for this tax reform does not necessarily seem to me to be so positive. That's why the discussion is coming. There is, of course, international tax competition, where other countries have reduced their tax levels, and now Norway is going to follow in a way. It's a dilemma where we're taking part in the international tax competition. A small country such as Norway has to live with the need to adapt the international framework conditions to Norwegian business. But there must also be reason to say that that's not necessarily desirable, because that means that we have to shift our taxation to other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2386	70-80 pst. the costs incurred by municipalities are incurred in growing up, caring for and caring for them. That is the heavy costs of the municipal sector. Now we see a notice that in the municipality by municipality it is cut in hospital care, cut in home care and cut in quality. In one of the municipalities in my own country, there is the closure of hospital wards, there is the closure of the screened unit, there is a reduction in long-term locations, and there is a reduction in short-term locations. We now have TV lookups that the NRK has raised, ‘Norway is failing’. Bent Höie says today that we can't have it like that. Then we see that we have a tax failure in the municipalities of approx. 2.8 B.C.E. kr this year, and we know that when that tax failure gets so big, it's going to be further cut. It's going to be worse than today's situation. Then my question is to the Prime Minister: When the Minister of Health says that we cannot have it like that, can we see action – that the government comes with funds to compensate us for the tax failure of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2393	As I said in my post, we now actually see that the growth in the number of hospitals built is higher, because we increased the investment grants when this government joined. We have added extra money to what is important in terms of the statement that is today, about the quality of care. So there we have increased the earmarked funds for quality development in care for the elderly. They're now at the top of 400 million. kr, which is just about to go to the competence and knowledge to contribute to this. So next year's government budget doesn't mean anything about this year's tax failure, because we're calculating it before this tax failure is absorbed. And next year's government budget is interesting, because the growth in the free income there is higher than the growth in the space between demographic expenditure and the growth in the free income. This growth is now higher in the municipal sector than it was in 2011, 2012 and 2013. That means that the room to prioritize next year is actually bigger for the municipalities than it was for three years with red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2401	The Prime Minister spoke well about the major challenges we face in the climate and the environment. She also gave a good talk now about the major changes Norway needs to undergo due to the climate challenges we face. After the census, the Prime Minister presented a budget that left quite sincerely was somewhat disappointed when it came to climate and environment. Now the Prime Minister sees the fasit of what left is not disappointed in climate and environment. So my question to the Prime Minister is, Has the Prime Minister learned anything from this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2408	Yes. I believe that there are many good measures that have been included in the negotiations. The sum of all these measures are things that we can all agree on, and then we also have to make sure that we always agree to a balancing of the positive measures we get. For me, it's important to say that there are many things we can discuss up and down in a state budget, but the really big promises of climate are the ones we can do if we get business with us on the new technology. Therefore, I believe that the biggest thing we do is to make sure that the state is a good partner, both looking for new technology when purchasing things, and also having a strengthened financial framework in the climate technology fund and in the environmental technology system. The Climate Technology Fund has been provided by the government through the agreement in the agreement. We increased the environmental technology fund in the budget, and it is even more so now in the Storting. Both of them think I'm good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2415	In the census earlier in the autumn, equality was not mentioned in one word. In the budget presented by Erna Solberg, there are no gender equality measures of importance. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister talks a lot about the line of work, it obviously does not apply where it is most important, namely what has contributed most to Norway's wealth, that we have got more women into the labour market. It only applies to the poorest. The government has increased the cash support instead, increased the kindergarten prices for people most, introduced shorter spring allowances, etc. It is not possible, except for the increased orphanage development to which the Christian People's Party and the Left press the Prime Minister in the budgetary agreement now, to trace one single measure of importance to this government, which facilitates its combination with family and children. Why does the government have no such proposals? Why does the Prime Minister never talk about equality? Does this government have any equality policy at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2422	I often talk about equality. But I don't think we entirely agree on what is necessarily talking about equality. I talk a lot about violence against women. I talk a lot about our international responsibility for girls getting education. I spend a lot of my time working on it. It's the biggest gender equality challenge on a global scale, much bigger than the question of whether there's become a little bit more money for cash support. Or when the government proposed to remove tax class 2 — it has come back on the Stortinget — it is clear that there has been an increase in the incentives to participate in the labour market. But we have also made a compromise where we have agreed on the Stortinget that we should not have such strong incentives associated with it. Clearly, if you think that the fight against violence against women, and the fight for girls to get education, are not gender issues, you might criticise the government and say it doesn't do anything about it. I think we're doing something with some of the most important things we're going to do, and that's to make sure that women are not exposed to violence, and that girls are educated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2429	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2432	Municipal welfare services together with our hospitals and public health are budget winners in the Workers' Party's alternative state budget. We're going to spend a total of 5.6 billion. more than the government of these very important welfare tasks. This is about providing children and young people with good and equal opportunities, offering elderly people and others with care needs, rapid and good treatment for disease and, in particular, increasing efforts to prevent disease. At the same time, we will fully compensate the municipalities for the huge loss of tax revenue that is now affecting the municipality of Norway. It's close to 3 billion. kr. Lots of money – and a lot of money to lose. "On the level," said Røjres Svein Flötten earlier here today, and generalises it all, as if it were common for the tax to fail. Under the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens, municipalities have always maintained additional tax revenues, and that is largely what has marked the eight years. The Labour Party does not fail the municipalities if the tax fails, because it would be to fail those who need the offers and the security. The level of taxation in our budget line is the same as in 2013. We spend the big money on the big tasks, which are about safeguarding people's well-being. The Right Party and the Advance Party stand for a policy that obviously creates greater differences between people, who are unorthodox, and who the Nordics really don't want. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party have stopped the most unsocial cuts, and they've got a lot more things that we think are good, and that are inside our arrangement, and that we want to be with and vote for. That's what they're supposed to have. But for a fight it's obviously been. It's good it's a year to the next time. In any case, with this state budget, the Right Party and the Advance Party have really shown their true self. The treasure of the most prosperous is the matter of all matters. Even the cultural walking stick was no longer space until then. The examples of social policy in the original budget are many. In these days, there are a lot of municipalities carrying out cut-offs because of the tax deficit this year, and lack of money next year. This has been a lot of topic here today. That's good. Statutory duties are also affected. Many cuts are considered dramatic. Some municipalities also find alternative solutions and introduce or increase property taxes. We have heard examples from Bergen, we have heard examples from Stavanger, and it is not of the poorest municipalities in the country that now have to resort to property taxes. The government sees another way and allows well-being throughout the country just to happen. Gjermund Hagesetter says there'll be more and cheaper services. A little bit of reality, I allow myself to characterize it as. It is serious when well-functioning municipal services need to be reduced or reduced. Because that's what's happening. Young people are affected, children are affected, caring for all ages as well, and municipalities and county councils are given less opportunity to invest in offensive growth-creating measures. Municipal roads and construction shall not be maintained as much as necessary and necessary investments shall be postponed. In addition, several counties are depleted for funds to carry out regional development work. The Workers' Party increases appropriations for municipalities and county municipalities by about 3.5 billion. kr more than the government, and mostly through free income. Half a billion dollars goes to kindergartens, we have an advanced education equipment package, we increase the apprenticeship grant and we have $300 million. kr extra for regional development – Drail aid out in District Norway in particular. It would have been a completely different weekday for Kommune-Norway if our budget had been adopted. If you get sick in Norway, you should be sure that you get the best health care in the world, that they are ready. That's why we're strengthening the hospital economy by 1.3 billion. kr. We also believe that there is a need for a stronger focus on new treatments, ICT and medical devices. Actually, I am surprised that Bent Höie, Minister of Health and Care, has not been able to present a better health budget. Probably he notices his own medicine, expensive tax cuts, and how it works on our well-being. We're also betting on public health, with a budget of 737 million. kr, of which much goes to Sports-Norway. We also support various types of outdoor measures. We want to secure more natural areas, pearls, and we're trying to have offensive policies here in close cooperation with the volunteer organizations, which are doing a fantastic job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2453	The budget we are debating today is a green budget. It implies a new and better direction in climate and environmental policy. The four cooperation parties constitute a majority of those who adopt policies that reduce emissions and provide a better environment. We decide to step up the climate technology fund, as the government announced in May. We have already reduced a green tax commission, and we are adopting increased efforts to improve energy efficiency in private homes. This majority therefore adopts concrete measures that the red-green majority voted in favour of in the previous enlargement period. If we are to implement an effective climate policy, we need to make the right investments today. We must equip Norway for the future. Therefore, the government will invest in rail and public transport. That's why we're going to give business the opportunity to participate in the green shift, and that's why we're going to expand more renewable energy. There are no quick solutions, no shortcuts. What we need is good climate action in many areas of society. This is precisely what the budget and budgetary agreement give us – a cross-sectoral approach, with many small and large measures pointing the way to the low-carbon society. Action against climate change is not just about what is happening in Norway. One of the government's most important international efforts is climate and forest activity. This became part of the first climate agreement, among others. at the request of the Right. Since then, both the previous government and the sitting government have followed up the initiative. This year we're going to spend about three billion dollars. kr to reduce deforestation and build capacity ashore such as Indonesia, Brazil and Liberia. We have now set behind us a particularly good week for the rainforest. In Brazil we have now received the year's deforestation figures. They show the second lowest deforestation since the country started measuring its deforestation rates. That same week, Brazilian soya companies have decided to extend their soya stopover to a new 18-month period. This is very effective because the soya industry has been a major cause of deforestation. Our partner country Indonesia has recently replaced President, and in the last week we have received very positive signals from both the President and the newly appointed Minister for Forest Affairs. These news reminds us that what is happening outside Norway’s borders is of great importance for the development of greenhouse gas emissions. A new round of climate negotiations starts today. This time in Lima. Around 190 countries will work to agree on a new climate agreement. Norway plays an active role and has three clear objectives. Firstly, we want an agreement in Paris next year based on countries' emission targets. Secondly, we want to work so that we can measure the emission cuts that are promised will be enough to reach the 2-degree target. Thirdly, we want the draft agreement to contain a long-term global emission reduction target. We're raising the list. That is why we have proposed that we globally reach net zero emissions by 2050. When discussing the state budget, it is important to include both the national and the international perspective. Action against climate change is global. Norway plays an important role in international climate policy. We're going to keep doing that, and it's building this budget up below.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2471	The Prime Minister has told us that the reason why the Minister of Climate Change is struggling with government enforcement is that she is in a government where there are many people who are not concerned about the matter. One of the areas in which the Minister has really not come to grips with is the issue of climate quotas. After all, it is, as we all agree on, an important measure to meet our international climate commitments. But in order to finance the budgetary agreement, the appropriations for climate allowances have been set at zero next year. It was really alarming when the climate minister sent a letter to the Stortinge where she said this was some kind of unrealistic budgeting, and her own State Secretary followed up and said in today's Business that this is not realistic, and that they must come to the Stortinge and ask for an additional allocation. Today we have heard the right parliamentary leader say the opposite. He believes that this is a realistic budgeting. So my question to the minister is, what's right? Is that what the Right parliamentary leader says from this pulpit, or is that what she writes in her letter to the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2480	The country purchases climate allowances to meet Norway’s international climate obligations under the Kyoto Agreement. The government will facilitate the purchase of enough climate allowances in the period up to 2020, and contracts for the purchase of allowances are made on the basis of powers granted by the Stortinge. However, the preparation of the budget related to the purchase of allowances is demanding. For allowances, they are only paid when they are delivered to the country's holding account in the allowance registry, and as purchaser, we do not have full control over when payment is due. If it turns out that new allowances purchase agreements will be paid in 2015 or that there is a need for other changes to that purchase agreement, the government will return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. That's what's been notified in the ejaculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2485	Norway shall cooperate with the authorities of forest countries such as Brazil, Indonesia and Ethiopia to ensure the development of a comprehensive system to prevent deforestation. The government recommends a number of minor adjustments in the strategy and approach of the Climate and Forest Initiative, including: based on the two independent evaluations published this year. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree that, in order to further develop the REDD+ strategy, it is important that we work to promote results in more areas than only in the case of reduced emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2493	We received two good evaluations of the climate and forest project in the autumn. This shows that the way Norway works results: we enter into a dialogue with the countries with which we work closely, so that those countries build systems to ensure deforestation, civil society comes to the table together with the ministries, and we also focus on indigenous rights. It is precisely the overall approach that provides good results. During the climate negotiations in Warsaw, we also gained an impact on a better system of how climate and forest performance is to be integrated into the international climate agreement. So we were happy with the evaluation we got, and we continue along this track that I think gives the best results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2498	I must be allowed to say that it is still a little open that it is the parliamentary leader in the Right who is right, when he says that everything that has been adopted in the conciliation is realistic budgeting, or whether that is what the Council of State's letter to the Storting says, that there is unrealistic budgeting, which is right. But I'm going to leave it, because the agreement meant that one got a change in, among other things. the car charges in a less environmentally hostile direction than the Right Party and the Advance Party provided. That's good in itself. This could mean getting a more environmentally friendly transport sector. But it's strange that one chooses to do it at the same time as one does not adjust the charges on petrol and diesel, because the signal is on the one hand that one should buy and drive environmentally friendly, while on the other hand it becomes cheaper to run on fossil fuels. Does the Council of State see that in this way she sends conflicting signals about environmentally friendly transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2505	The Government is committed to reducing emissions in the transport sector. That is why we are continuing the benefits of electric car policy, and that is why we have announced a complete review of car charges, which comes into the revised national budget. Now we have also agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left that the four parties should have that review together. So now, in the budget agreement, we're going to do more in terms of chargeable hybrid cars, which show that here we have the chance to reduce emissions in transport. Then there was someone who challenged the Transport Economics Institute on what it would mean that we did not price the car charges for 2015, and the answer from TØI was quite clear – that means minimal. A small price adjustment I don't think is very crucial because whether a lar is driving a car or not. It is the total car policy here that gives results – a signal that it is worth choosing environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2514	SV agrees with the Council of State that bringing with it the international as well as the national perspective of climate change is important. I constantly meet people who want to make an effort here at home to contribute to the green shift – or what I like to call the green, good fight. SV wants solar cells on the roof. Our houses and our blocks can be power plants. SV will provide financial support to people who take climate action in their own housing and build solar cells. Large parts of Norway are suitable for producing solar energy, which is one of the world's most promising climate solutions. Does the Council of State think that this can be a good thing to continue working with, even if we did not get into this state budget such a system that people can get support for solar cells on their takeovers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2523	I am glad that SV is now involved in the green shift, and we see the possibilities that exist in the change we are going to go through. It is very exciting to see that solar technology also works well in Norway. Last autumn I joined in connecting to what was then Norway's largest solar photovoltaic system, on the roof of the Hedmark High School, on Evenstad. When one sees how solar technology works well in the Østerdalen valley, it is good evidence that sun is also an important energy area for Norway. So the representative, Gjerstad, knows that the way Enova is now structured, doesn't support it. Whether it is wise to do so in a country that has a lot of renewable hydropower is the kind of balance we have to look at when renegotiating the agreement with Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2532	I want to start by thanking the Christian People's Party and the Left for having made a good budgetary settlement in the Stortinget, which allows you to have a further shift in the pace of transport policy. The budget is marked by both the fact that we are going to take care of what we have and the fact that we are going to plan for the future. We need to invest more, but we also need to invest the money better. That's why there's a lot of system shifts in what the government's doing, and not just a discussion about how many dollars you're giving. One has to get a more efficient public sector that builds up, and one has to get more for the money. One needs to get faster planning processes and faster decisions. I'm recording that the opposition doesn't have an overall alternative now. Under the red-green government there was always a demand from the red-green ministers that the opposition should stand together if one were to take it seriously. In this hall, the opposition – the red-green parts – cracks in all directions. It is cut and added about the other – without any complete direction. I think it's interesting that the government – and the majority – shut up because we're betting too much on the way. It's important to take care of what we have. The road and rail maintenance run has increased year after year. On the railway, it has increased by almost 1 billion. kr annually for the last 10 years. Now it's going to be a change, now we're going to flip this. The slowdown in the 2015 budget will be reduced for the first time in many decades. With good cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, there will also be a reduction in maintenance maintenance on the railway. From growing by 1 billion. kr annually it will actually be reduced in the coming year. It testifies to a willingness and an ability to maintain what we have as a priority. This change in growth did not indicate any sign in the 2014 budget, which was presented by the previous government. This change came when new parties took power in the Storting and came into government. Maintaining what we have is important. In the road sector, road safety is particularly important. 140–170–200 people die on the roads in Norway each year. That's why it's important to bet on the road. It's about the feasibility of people who live, who work for business, or who transport goods on the roads. In the railway sector, it is particularly important to ensure that those transporting goods can use the railway as a safe and predictable transport year. There have been too many railway departures that have been cancelled because the infrastructure does not keep track. Now we can start doing something about it. Only then can we also start talking crediblely about that more goods are going away from the road and over on the railway. This is also good for the maintenance of the road, because a vehicle combination is far more laborious on the road than passenger cars do. In addition, we're going to expand more infrastructure. We're going to have increased capacity and reduced travel time on several routes. This applies to both road and rail. We will be able to start all the projects in the Vegvesen and the Railway Agency’s action plans. It is not necessarily given, although it has been mentioned in the national transport plan. In the case of the previous national transport plan, 20 road projects were delayed. Now we're on track. In the road sector, we also need to plan for more. It's not just useful to say that we want to build more roads, we also need to have the construction drawings ready. We double the appropriations for road planning. In the railway sector, one goes from having granted 46 million. kr. in 2012 to grant 750 million. kr in 2015. It bears witness to a willingness to continue the bet. It is important that we look at how we plan more comprehensively – plan longer distances and use government plans more often, choose better routes, get better cooperation between the Railway Agency and the Road Administration, look at speed limits and signs, so that we make better use of the infrastructure we have. But then it's important that we not only look at what we're going to build – and that's going to be years ahead – we also have to make sure that people get a better offer today. That's why the majority has said we should have more departures on the railway. While one just a year and a half ago rejoiced that one could still have night and night on the Sørlandsbanen, today's majority say that it's not enough, we want almost a double of the number of departures. One extends the pendulum on the Trunder Railway. One gets far more departures in the Oslo region. The NSB is given the means to purchase twice as many sets of vehicles. The railway works will extend many platforms, which allows us to increase the capacity right now. In the case of cycle paths, there will be an increase of 30 pst. in the number of kilometres of built-up cycle path. A lot of people are looking at how many dollars are going to be used. For me, it's important that we look at how many kilometers are actually realized. And within heavy transport there will be stricter rules and more controls. It is important to improve road safety and industrial competitiveness. Much also happens in the case of broadband. There is a strong growth in the appropriations for security. One is working to bring down the costs. When we reduce costs, it will also be natural to look at where to increase subsidies – in order to achieve more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2560	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2563	First, I have to be satisfied that the government is following the NTP that was presented by the red-green. I guess we've all criticised that we should have more to do. We also see that there has been more growth on the railway, but weakened on the way in the comparison with the Christian People's Party and the Left, so that in the new NTP we are almost in line with what the red-greens offered. Yes, it's a historic promise, but it's not today's government that has done it. Rather, the party must be dissatisfied with its alternative proposals in the past. In the NTP as late as last year, they proposed 45.5 billion. kr more. And we now see that the Labour Party is presenting a budget of 1.5 billion. kr over what the Minister presented on 8 October. That is why I have a question to the Minister: how does it feel to present a budget far below what the Progress Party introduced into its alternative NTP, and also feel that the Workers' Party is putting more emphasis on transport than the Progress Party-Right Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2572	It feels good to know that the Workers' Party sees the Progress Party as the most offensive part of society in Stortinget. That's something we're going to work on, both this year and beyond. So one says that this was in the NTP. Yeah, there's a lot we agreed on in the NTP. But we are actually ahead of the form of implementing the national transport plan. Where the previous government was pleased to grant as much money as they promised, although 22 road projects were delayed, this government is concerned not only with how much we grant, but that we actually realize the projects that are there. That's why we now have several billion dollars – we're almost 7 billion. kr – in front of the form if we look at steady escalating year by year with a steady budgetary growth. This shows that we are further ahead of what the Workers' Party said we could best implement when they themselves adopted the National Transport Plan. Then there's no doubt that when the Workers' Party increases the taxes by 14 billion. kr, it is possible to find money for a little more way than the Progress Party does, but the Labour Party managed for eight years without starting to pick up the maintenance run on the road. We'll be able to do that after a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2581	I would also like to commend the government for being on the path of stepping up the national transport plan, even though it is not yet fully on the average – where one should be. That's good. Before the elections, the main battle of the Advance Party was the fight against tolls. In the financial speech, this was reduced to the fact that the Minister of Finance promised smarter tolls. Now I think the drivers are fairly indifferent to the level of intelligence of the tolls. They're more concerned with the scale. On written questions from me in our State Council that according to the action programme for the State Road Administration, there were 90 new toll stations until 2017. So my question is, with the budget we're dealing with today, the number 90 was stated earlier. What will be the number with the new budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2591	I think it is great that the Central Party recognises the Progress Party and the Right that we are more offensive in the field of transport policy, and the budget that we have presented shows this. So we're in front of the national transport plan for follow-up in dollars. We are well placed to follow-up in the project. I also remember that if we compare percentages here, we are much further ahead of two years than the previous government did in 2010, when they were two years into the previous NTP, which had much lower ambitions. With regard to the scope of the toll, there is no doubt that there will be less toll with this government than what had been done with the previous government. I find it interesting that a representative who has also been a State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport had to ask the Ministry of Transport how many toll missions you had set up yourself for the four years you would be in opposition. There will be fewer toll missions than what was planned, but there will be tolls. The government platform says that there will be more road construction than planned, but there will be fewer toll stations. But we're not going to eliminate the toll stations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2600	In the left, we are pleased that the Council of State is so pleased with the agreement, which gives a very good rail budget, where you can now start to take the maintenance run and reduce it in the years ahead. But there is also a significant addition in the reward schemes towards the big cities, of 325 million. kr. There is, of course, public transport, but there are also many smaller measures, including: bicycle measures. Then the challenge is how to use these funds in collaboration with the big cities, so that you can manage, even for next year, to take all traffic growth times, bikes and public transport. Then my question becomes: does the Council of State think that there is an allocation that is sufficient to achieve that goal? And how will the Council of State work so that we can avoid a traffic growth based on cars, also in 2015?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2607	I am very pleased with the direction in which we are drawing together the budget for transport. There is no doubt that the Christian People's Party, the Left Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party take on a vow that is important. Is it enough for a sheep to solve all the problems next year? No, it's not. There's too much maintenance work left, even in the cities. There are too many places where the bus stops in line with other traffic. It's too many places where it's not attractive enough to ride, which makes people choose different travel modes. For me, it's important that in the process of solving some traffic flows in cities, we find solutions that make it more attractive, that people want to travel collectively. It's only when people want a behavioral change, because they see that they get a better offer, that more people will do it. Whispering people into an overcrowded bus makes them dream back into the car. It's better to sit on a bus where you can surf the iPad and know that the bus comes and goes when it's supposed to, that it's comfortable, that's the way you do it, then the increase in appropriations will be important, but not enough... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2612	I come from our ferry-rich coast, and I'm very glad that the budget agreement at Stortinget has given us a turn in the direction of electricity ferries, which we in SV have also had in our budget, that we are going to make our car ferries more resilient in a climate context. Then there's only traffic left. We've got a lot of research that shows that when we build more roads towards cities, there'll be more greenhouse gas emissions. My question is: does the Council of State doubt that major motorways towards the big cities increase the amount of transport, and that one gets a transition from public transport, bicycles and times to cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2619	I think people's travel habits are a little bit about what alternatives they have. If the option has often been to sit on a train or a bus that takes a very long time compared to driving a car, choose many cars, and that's because people experience the timing many times. You want to deliver in kindergarten and do things that make you not so flexible. That's when we have to make sure to expand the public transport offer and a railway infrastructure that makes it attractive to use instead of a car, because you know that you can take advantage of your time on board the bus and train instead of driving a car and following the traffic around. This trend change has then been achieved. With regard to CO2 emissions, I believe that there is nothing that should prevent us from building up a new road today, because that road should be there for 50-100 years. The CO2 emissions we are experiencing now, I believe, are relatively eliminated in view of what is happening in automotive technology with electric cars and plug-in hybrid cars. Then we have to be able to have two thoughts in our heads at the same time: both expanding the infrastructure that gets rid of cows, and investing in technology that gets rid of emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2635	Before the elections, in particular, the Right promised a change in the course in the field of school. The tension was therefore great when the Ministry of Knowledge took over the Right in the autumn of 2013 and presented its first budgetary changes. But despite the fact that the Right Party and the Advance Party provided four extra billions of oil, there was nothing extra to the school effort. The increase was covered by other school cuts. The withdrawal from our common oil account went to the richest in the form of solid tax cuts. For ordinary people, the tax cuts did not even cover the apples that Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen had taken from the kids. The Right and Advance Party's answer was that only in the autumn of 2014 would we see what the government parties really stood for. Today we know what such a budget looks like. Once again, there is a record in the use of oil money – never before have we paid so many of our current bills with oil money. But once again, other than children and young people, teachers and employees in school get the money. The only school effort in the budget is to follow up the Storting's unanimous desire for more continuing education for teachers. An increase of 142 million. kr receives broad support in Stortinget today. Other bets were simply not there – nothing for early effort for children who are struggling, nothing to reduce the size of the classes, nothing to help more people through high school, nothing to strengthen the fight against bullying. In a letter to Stortinget, Minister of Knowledge Røe Isaksen informs that the total increase to primary and secondary schools is lower than the increase to continuing education for teachers. That is, even the Red Isaac is able to figure out that the other budget has a real cut like that. On the right, in the draft budget, the promise of a change in course, a change in course from an annual solid escalation of the school effort during the red-green, several hours in high school, extra teachers in high school, school management programmes and much more, to a course where the arrow points downwards. Røe Isaksen was the great loser in the government’s internal struggle for budget crowns. Once again, the big money went to the richest – between 8 billion. and 9 billion. kr. 30 pst. is proposed for the richest thousandths in Norway. So it was to be spent almost 100 times more on tax cuts than on bets in primary and secondary schools. Only a few of the richest in Norway represented the entire school increase in government budget proposals. Fortunately, a unanimous increase today will firmly reject the government's proposals for the knowledge budget. The majority say no to the cut in the outreach grant, no to the study fee for foreign students, no to the cut in adult education, no to the cut in the volunteer organisations, and no to the Right and the Advance Party's proposal on cut in the higher education institutions. There are still a few cut-offs left, but the Christian People's Party and the Left shall be praised for having removed many of the cut-off proposals of the Red Isaac, Right and Advance Party. The Labour Party says no to the government's tax cut, and without increasing taxes and taxes by a single penny beyond the 2013 level, we have a completely different investment in school and education: more to early efforts for the youngest children, free core time in SFO in bet areas, increased efforts against bullying, increased efforts in the professional sector, better equipment and increased apprenticeship grants, designation of school health services, commitment to study quality in higher education, more student housing and increased efforts to help students who are struggling mentally – to mention some of the issues. The budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left brings the budget more towards what the Workers' Party has chosen to prioritise in its alternative arrangement. Jonas Gahr Støre's words that the Christian People's Party and Left have spent three weeks getting the Right Party and the Advance Party on, could be done in three hours with the Workers' Party, at least in the field of education. Here it is the Right and Advance Party which represents an extreme point in Norwegian policy, an extreme point which does not have support here in the main hall. Norwegian students, teachers and all those involved in school and education can be pleased. Nevertheless, there is cause for concern, and this is due to the fact that the most important school effort is made by municipalities and county municipalities throughout the country. With the budget to which the government parties made up, but also with the budget adopted with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, we will, in addition to the harvest, before Christmas, look short in many municipalities, teachers who do not get the necessary room for action to help the students, who do not have time to see the individual, who do not have time to follow up. The Labour Party does not believe that it is the teacher’s knowledge that is the greatest deficiency in Norwegian school. That's the teacher's time, and that's where we put our money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2654	Reading and experimenting with a Norwegian state budget is partly challenging. All the documents presented with their numerical columns and extensive writings testify to a very good work. It must be admitted that it is not always easy to get the desired overview and insight into everything. There must be every reason to praise the Ministry of Finance and a government that delivers all of this, and that in its budget work answers all kinds of questions to almost every day. The Norwegian economy is doing well. It's a long way to go the main conclusion. The main budget effort facilitates increased productivity and continued growth in the economy. This will enable new jobs to be created and the well-being of society to be safeguarded. Nevertheless, there will always be some concerns, as it is now. Times can change quickly, and it's enough to refer to the fall in the oil price. The oil price affects many conditions in society. We have made through the oil fund a mechanism that largely protects the mainland economy. We're adding large amounts of oil wealth to the budget. Nevertheless, the wealth of the oil fund will pass 6,000 billion. kr at the end of next year. Speaking of wealth: the right and the government have been crystal clear about the fall in wealth taxes, and why is the closest to the boring argument for innumerable examples. The tax shall not be reduced on the grounds that people with large bank deposits and expensive dwellings are to avoid taxation, even if it can be well argued that this kind of wealth is largely taxed in the past. No, the main reason is and will be that taking into account the many small and medium-sized privately owned Norwegian enterprises will release this additional burden that the property tax represents. There is reason to remember that the private sector employs around 1.8 million people, and this is about. 70 pst. by the labour force. Most privately owned Norwegian enterprises are small, with fewer than 10 employees, often forming the backbone of many communities. If we mean something about scattered housing and business, we must stimulate this and not argue for the opposite. Therefore, taxes on ownership of Norwegian enterprises are partly unfair, especially when we know that competing foreign enterprises often drop property taxes. Tax relief appears to some to be something repugnant. It's like giving a lot of tax credits to people and businesses. I want to remind you of the actual ratio: the state gives nothing of this. The state just takes or requires a little less of people. After all, a tax is something that people pay out of their income and wealth – it's not something you get. Simplification and focus on bureaucracy are important. The government is making a profit in doing something about this. It is proposed to introduce a red tape and efficiency reform from 2015. 0.6 pst. of all operating expenditure allocated to the State budget, shall be returned to the Community through the annual budgets. For 2015, this is calculated at the base of SEK 1.7 billion. kr. Such measures have been used in other comparable countries, but tend to be at a higher percentage than proposed here. In the future, further measures of efficiency and simplification should be pursued. Norway is a very good country to live in. We can be proud of our nation. We have built up a fairly efficient public administration in most areas, but we are working to improve and work on the community reform is an example of this. The county level is screaming for renewal, and probably we also see changes here. The State must be simplified and renewed. The submitted budget of the civil parties takes Norway in a different direction than before. The final budget has been created through a negotiation process in which the direction of government is recognised and where redeployment has been achieved in constructive and good cooperation. There is no revolution, but more steps that matter – which means something to people most, and which gives us and our business better and safer framework conditions. The budget will equip Norway for the years ahead. We must never forget why we are politicians, who largely agree, but where there should still be ideological differences. It comes from time to time in this room. For us who are value-conservatives, who have our place of faith and trust in the individual, it is such that trust must be built up, but also given. The submitted budget of the cooperation parties gives confidence. The budget is characterised by a combination of societal priorities, including: in knowledge, health and transport and moderate tax relief to business and most people. All of this contributes to a better society where individuals have their central place. That's how we get trust in each other, and that helps us move in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2671	It has struck me when I have followed this debate today that it is quite incredible how many times it is possible for the opposition to use the government's tax reliefs. You'd almost think it was an exhaustive source. At the same time, it is also quite obvious how the former government parties, i.e. the red-green ones, now have the opportunity to grant money for all good purposes that they didn't do anything special about when they were in position for eight years. The roles have changed, but it is quite clear that it is easier to be in opposition than to sit in position. The Government has presented a draft government budget for 2015 with clear priorities in knowledge, transport, justice and health. At the same time, there has been room for considerable relief in taxes and taxes. So it's possible to do both. The budgetary agreement in the United Kingdom with the Christian People's Party and the Left has maintained and strengthened the priorities of the budget for next year. The four cooperation parties have confirmed their agreement on clear priorities in key areas. Through a good budget, we can help strengthen the Norwegian economy and improve the framework conditions for those who want to create the values. In the international context, the Norwegian economy is very sound, although there is an increasing uncertainty. Large natural resources, not least oil and gas, and high labour input have provided a level of welfare for the vast majority, while also providing some challenges for individual households, individual enterprises and the economy as a whole. The level of costs in Norway is very high compared with our trading partners in Europe and has evolved in the wrong direction. Well-being is not free, even if it is public. Some have to finance the benefits distributed to individuals and groups, and the needs may seem endless. The challenges of the future were well highlighted in the previous government’s perspective report, which was addressed in the Stortinget in 2013. In the perspective message to the red-greens, it was among other things. pointed out the need to maintain good oil fund returns, to improve the efficiency of the public sector and to increase labour supply. The right-wing Party government takes these challenges seriously, including: by introducing an efficiency requirement for state agencies that will ensure future containment needs. Demands for productivity gains in public budgets have been incorporated in many countries, but this is entirely new in Norwegian context. The Government's proposals, further reinforced in the budgetary agreement, are fully in line with the OECD recommendations. I note that the opposition criticises the government's reform without having its own alternatives in this area. Moving more labour from the competitive sector to an even larger oil-financed public sector is not the answer to the challenges we face. We already have good examples of how it is possible for the public sector to streamline, reduce expenditure and achieve better results. I think there is reason to highlight the so-called heathland model, where Nav in Hedmark has only achieved over 80 million using today's legislation. I spent one year in hospital and got more people back to work, and they have got them back to work much faster. The users themselves are consistently very satisfied. So it shows that we have a lot of good people in public – they need to have legislation and they need to have incentives to make efficiency improvements and achieve results. On behalf of the Progress Party, I am pleased that the Right-Fremskrit party government has presented a budget with a clear direction and a clear prioritisation of what measures are needed to address needs in key societal areas. The multi-party proposals for government budgets no longer give all but give priority to measures that are important to improve the framework conditions for business and the mainland industry, motivate more people to increase their commitment, work efforts and, not least, stimulate profitable saving and investment. There is also reason to remember that the amount of the appropriations is not always decisive, but rather that the money is used correctly and gives results as expected. We have to measure the results. When presenting the government’s draft budget, the focus was immediately on two main elements of the budget: tax reliefs and changes in government benefits. Each of them is a very interesting focus, which is absolutely related. There should be no contradiction between rewarding work and efforts and maintaining a good social safety network, rather on the contrary. For 2014, the corporation tax and the tax rate on employee income were reduced from 28 p.m. until 27 pst. The inheritance tax was removed in its entirety, and the property tax was also reduced. For 2015, the budget agreement in Stortinget entails some changes to the government’s proposed tax regime, but the main direction is well taken. The agreement gives tax reliefs of 5.2 billion. in 2015, while increasing efforts in key areas of society. Well, in sum, it's $12.5 billion. kr given in tax reliefs over the course of two years. In order to increase the supply of work and ensure well-being, it is necessary to make work, invest, take risks and build values more profitable. The budget agreement gives signals in the right direction and responds to future challenges. For the sake of order – since it has been mentioned in the debate – the Progress Party does not have a particularly large number of well-appointed nuclear electors. And since we're so few, there might be some people who want to claim that right now we don't have so many at all, but we have good representation among entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized businesses. For them, actual tax rates and the greatest possible non-discrimination of property are important in order to make it attractive for private investment in business. The introduction of a new scheme of disability benefits has also received a strong focus on this autumn. The reform, adopted by the Stortinget in 2011, is to be introduced in 2015 and the Government’s proposals for transitional arrangements have been further strengthened in the budgetary agreement. The motivation for the disability reform was to make it easier to combine work and social security, i.e. to promote the working line and to create opportunities for the many on the outside of the ordinary labour market. The value of our future work represents most of our national wealth. Tax relief in combination with major appropriations for research and education is a contribution to the development of our common wealth. Norway has a high cost level, and we have to compete for quality and competence. Therefore, it is important to stimulate research that results in commercially good and innovative solutions. Tax FUNN schemes and the economic instruments of the Norwegian Research Council are strengthened in the next year’s budget. In addition, even more teachers are offered further training, and a system of real-time communautaires is introduced precisely because knowledge is vital. The budget agreement also makes it possible to build 2,000 new student housing in 2015, and the apprenticeship allowance can be increased by NOK 4000 per contract. The need for more road and track, not only for initial investment but also more for maintenance, is well addressed in the draft budget for 2015. For business and for individual users, it will be noted that there is a substantial increase in the allocation for these purposes. This means that we are also able to take back some of the maintenance work on the road and track. At the same time, the infrastructure fund will reach 70 billion. kr in 2015, and provides a significant capital base where the return can be used for future maintenance. For Oslo and Akershus, it is important that the government commits 50 p.m. funding for Fornebubanen and the provision of planned funds as early as 2015. Then it's also important that we double the capacity of the local network on the railway through increased investments to buy new trainsets. It's already happening in the summer. Individual security is a high priority. The budget for justice really provides a boost focusing on new positions in the police and prosecution authorities and on enhanced investigation capacity. We get a significant focus on the health budget with increased patient treatment in hospitals. I just want to end by mentioning that there has been a lot of focus on people most in this debate, and that's very good. It's affordable, and for most people, the fees may be as important as the tax level. From the point of view of the Progress Party, I am very pleased that we were able to obtain significant relief from car-related charges. Through constructive negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we actually got to a package that was better than the government had initially proposed, and that's very good. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2709	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2714	I noticed that the representative in his post of course argued for the government's budget and the conciliation, and said he was very pleased with it. At the same time, I noticed that the representative initially pointed out that the opposition is occupied by the tax reliefs of the government, and that the opposition grants money for all good purposes, which we did not do in the government. It is easier to be in opposition than in position, said the representative. The roles have been changed. It made me reflect a little, because it almost seemed as if the representative was a little jealous, as if the representative were standing and dreaming a little back to the good opposition days over 40 years. Then I have to ask the representative: is that what is happening – after the negative response to the budget and poor opinion polls?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2722	I have been in the Progress Party since 1979, and that means that there have been many years in opposition, not for my part on the Stortinget, so the last year has been a new experience, and I must say that so far I would not have replaced a single day. What is important in politics is to have the opportunity to implement what you stand for, and what you want and think is important, and I believe that this government will have, quite rightly, a minority government that depends on establishing a majority in the Grand Duchy, but we get good solutions through good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. So far I'm very happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2729	I fully agree with the representative Limi that where you choose to tax, and how you tax property, is important to business, and that is important for the justice of society, and therefore it is also important for the tax will not only to people most, but also to the entrepreneurs, whom the representative Limi is concerned about. Then I just want to remind you that the party that proposes the lowest corporate tax this year in the alternative state budgets is SV. It's not because we're a big tax cut party, but it's because we think the financial industry should contribute more, the oil industry should contribute more, and the industries we're going to live on in the future in the mainland are going to contribute less. Doesn't the representative Limi just want to admit that it makes more sense to increase the tax on the richest and greatest wealth and spend some of the money on cutting off the taxes of the founders of Limi's brand?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2736	Basically, I'm well of the opinion that what's important is to create to share and not to share to create. There is no better counting for entrepreneurs or for small and medium-sized enterprises if you tax slightly more than the few hundred that are among the richest in Norway. What is important is to get the lowest possible tax rates, and then the wealth tax is actually quite important. All of these say quite clearly that the wealth tax is a problem because it has to be paid, regardless of whether you have profits or not. It is always a burden for business owners, and therefore it is important to do something about the equal treatment of property and to lower the rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2741	But if it was only competition at price and at tax level that was important, if it was that business has the best framework conditions when wages are low and the tax is low, so that profits are as high as possible, how can it be that Norway is such a good country to operate in? Is it not the case that support schemes, a proper social security network that allows people to take a chance in working life, that professional environments maintained by good policy solutions, that permitting schemes in industry, that technology development and public research – all of which are financed by tax – are good for business, and that it is not at all certain that business is better off with a more Americanised model, which the Progress Party now supports, where the tax level is lower, but where society becomes similarly poorer in the ability to build a good society both for citizens and for business life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2746	I do not disagree with what the representative Serigstad Valen points out. It is important for business to have good framework conditions, predictable framework conditions. Then we experience that the economy and competition have become very global, and then we also have to compare what is happening in other countries. Stability is important, knowledge is important, research is important, building skills, and that means that for the Progress Party there is no contradiction between it and organising a proper tax level, a good tax system. We accept taxes, but it must always be a balance, so that we do not create framework conditions in Norway that are worse than they have in countries with which to compete.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2751	I must almost be allowed to follow up a bit where Irene Johansen escaped. Here stood the representative Limi from the Progress Party and talked about the parties and opposition that only granted for all good purposes and apparently had money for everything. So it comes from a party that has created a reputation for just having money for everything. In opposition, the Progress Party had 50 billion. D more in the year of the National Transport Plan, while the draft budget had a budget of 5 billion. kr – and not 50 brd. Could it be that the Progress Party has gone on a commemorative note, or is it that the Progress Party is now finally beginning to realise, as the representative, Mr Limi may say, that policy is about priorities – and that prioritisation can be difficult? And even the Advance Party can't do anything forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2758	My point at the outset was that it is a little unlikely that those who were in government a year ago, in fact, now have plans to increase the appropriations for all good purposes, when you did not implement those plans and appropriations while you were in a position to do so. That was my point. So it's clear that there's another situation now, and that in many ways it can be easier to be in opposition. We're assuming that the Advance Party is part of government cooperation. We're not in government alone. We have a partnership with the Right, and we depend on two parties to create a majority in the Biggest. That means there'll be some compromises. We are not able to implement everything in our party program, but we feel that we are getting so much done that it is worth sitting in government to get a new course and policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2765	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2768	Last week I asked my little brother if he wanted to be an audience at «New». He replied that he could not, but sent a text message: «Remember that you can't be less fun than you were last time, so this can only go one way.» What about enemies when you have a family? Last year I realized that we both had an opposition and a ‘constructive opposition’ in Stortinget. It's exciting. Because when the State budget was presented earlier this autumn, there was no lack of constructive feedback. My personal favorite was when the representative Abid Q. Raja responded that Telenor’s network was down, with the following quote: ‘It just doesn’t matter to give tax spots to homes while Telenor’s mobile networks crash.’ What are you going to do with the opposition? The government has presented a budget that I believe for the first time in a long time is taking Norway's future challenges seriously. Governments in the last ten years have probably had the largest economic space Norway will ever have. This has been linked to a high level of demand in the petroleum industry, including in the years following the financial crisis. In this unique position for conversion, the red-greens managed to make Norway more oil dependent. In addition, according to Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea, we have never before had such a sharp deterioration in competitiveness. Everyone agrees that we need to convert Norway from an oil-based economy to creating sustainable, forward-looking jobs. Only in the last two years, 7,000 people in the oil industry have lost their jobs. The cover in demand from the oil industry will test our ability to convert. The right has meant, and still believes, that the last thing we need is a strange extra tax paid by those who create what we're going to live on after the oil. When the SSB shows that there are only three out of ten companies that survive the first five years of operation, we should look at how we can remove obstacles to them. Supporters of the extraordinary wealth tax take from investors, business owners and entrepreneurs who have proven to have created values and jobs to use this for new accelerator programmes, regional development funds and travel life programmes. This is to weaken the market for risk capital in order to be able to act itself. I think that is a rather arrogant form of redistribution. I have told you in the past that I think it is bad that Grandma, who started as a maid and finished her working life as a waiter, has to pay taxes on wealth after a busy and careful life. But with all due respect for Grandma, she's not the one who wants to invest in new Norwegian jobs and businesses because she's getting increased bottom-up. The government does neither itself nor the business community a service by compromising what those who are going to bake that cake – which everyone in this room is so eager to share – say is of great importance to them. I am opposed to the government, because we do not remove the property tax as we have removed the inheritance tax. Those from the Workers' Party who protested loudly about non-social taxes due to the inheritance tax last year do not reintroduce it this year. We just have to acknowledge that for that part of the opposition that is not constructive – but is only opposition – everything we do will be unsocial, because in their worldview they have the key to perfect distribution. In the Norwegian debate, it would be thought that the sum of money allocated to the State budget is a result in itself. I say this knowingly that I and my colleagues like to boast of a record-breaking commitment to the knowledge society and a large-scale commitment to transport investment and maintenance – perfectly right and important priorities for the future. But it is easy to take responsibility for budget increases. I would also like to take responsibility for cuts, reductions and re-priorities that enable us to build a sustainable welfare society that stands through both crises and rise times. The representative Marianne Marthinsen said that yes, it is right that we politicians should both listen and lead, and thus make tough decisions when necessary. But she also claimed that it's not necessary now, and that we're just using this rhetoric to implement our priorities. I think that is quite irresponsible – to wait until there is a crisis, where the room for action to make relatively gentle changes is gone. I would like to take a moment's drop in the polls to see the generations coming after me, in the eyes and say that we did what we could to rust Norway for the future. To that end, we need structural changes – municipal reform, police reform, modernisation of the public sector, incentives to create and reward for working: all the things we work with while the others are busy talking about Segway, liquorice pipes and plastic bags. Last of all, I hear the Minister of Finance say that she will come back to Stortinget with the design of the fee in the revised national budget. If she needs tips on layout for distribution and balancing, I recommend her to see Friday's 'New'. Little brother said I was funny, and I am now back on the Christmas gift list. And by the budgetary agreement, I believe that we have found a real, constructive way to equip Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2801	The discussion of taxation as an instrument can not only be about how to cut taxes. It has to be about something more: how do we use the tax system to facilitate growth, and how do we use the revenue from the split layer to build society at the bottom? As a representative of the mercenary from the 1970s I can report that we learned early that to build a pyramid, one had to build solid from the ground, preferably a little extra thick walls at the bottom. It took patience, and it took a plan. Those who, if necessary, tried to empty the legoclosses on the board and called their legohawk a pyramid, revealed to themselves and to others a construction that was not very impressive, and that they themselves had very little to do with the result. Norway and the future are too important for us to be able to rely on the chance of development. That's why there's going to be too random the question that tax cuts are the solution no matter what the question is. If we're going to have ambitions to build something a little bit more sophisticated than a pyramid, or for that matter a bunch, we need a plan. That's why the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens also put down the Scheel Committee. We needed a plan based on good facts, a plan for how we could collect enough blocks to build something really spectacular. It hasn't been enough for us to let it randomly enter blocks or not know at what rate we can build. When I hear the Progress Party or the Right talk about tax, it might seem that they define whether the tax is good, depending on whether the tax is taxed, like it or not. It can be a challenging approach. The tax base can quickly become very thin, and it is our ambition for work, education, transport and health that pays the price. When the Workers' Party wanted to have advice on how to improve the tax system, because we wanted to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness while continuing to build a welfare state, it was for a reason. But it wasn't because Siv Jensen was going to be able to take it as an invitation to introduce a tax system that would give her a poster on the wall in a future Margaret Thatcher Memorial. An example of how to build at the bottom is the Workers' Party's investment in its alternative budget for the skilled worker and a decent working life. If a small country that Norway survives in competition in the world, we must bet on everyone, not just cut taxes. Norway’s leading competitive advantage is a highly educated population. Professionals who are self-employed and take responsibility and decisions at work contribute to high productivity and create an exciting working day for the individual. When we equate apprenticeship places with places of study by spending the same amount of money on the apprentice's education as on the student preparing, we're just doing this. Our tax arrangement allows for the prioritisation of professionalism and apprentices far stronger than that of the government or the conciliation. In the Workers' Party, we do not believe that the accumulated wealth of a family over generations is a measure of how much the individuals of that family can contribute for themselves and others. Community where everyone meets in the same school contributes to small differences and that we respect each other, that all good ideas are listened to, that no one is depreciated because they do not have the right background or really work on the floor. Tomorrow we'll get some recommendations from the Scheel Committee. It is then important that we stick to two objectives: competitiveness and well-being. The two are linked. There are some parties that claim that one requires the other, but I think that if one weakens, the other weakens. The contributions that have been here earlier today with extended hands and hopes for a broad basis, a good deal, are also supported by the Workers' Party. It will be exciting to see what tomorrow's comments will be like. I hope, like many others, that by this crossroads too, we are able to put the big things first, and that we are able to find a settlement that will provide a good room for growth and prosperity in Norway in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2822	Norway is a good country to live in. There is no doubt, and according to the United Nations Development Fund, which ranks living conditions in the world, Norway is the best country to live in. The United Nations report shows a trend where the number of poor people is falling, but still 1.2 billion people make up for 1.25 dollars or less a day. In Norway, we have very good welfare arrangements. We have a high employment rate and a high population outnumbered. Looking around us in the world, there are major humanitarian crises, poverty and global climate and environmental problems. But in our 2015 state budget, there are many good measures and large resources set aside for these very purposes. What is the biggest challenge for us in Norway? We who are born in Norway or who have received Norwegian citizenship are basically born with a silver spoon in hand. Oil has made us rich – and the world's best country to live in. But we know that oil will end once, and that in the long term it is the growth of the mainland economy that will determine the welfare development in Norway. At that time, it is important to take action to create a strong and competitive Norwegian business. It involves working for a good framework for Norwegian business, better infrastructure, a competent workforce and access to capital. In Europe, in the autumn report, we see that the European Commission's track of weak economic growth both in the euro zone and in the EU in its health for 2015. Unemployment is still high in the EU countries with an average of 10.1 p.p., but with large differences between countries — from Spain at 24 p.p. to Germany at 5 pst. In addition, we have the situation around Ukraine and the Middle East, which create great uncertainty. Fortunately, in the United States, the world's leading economy, we see a greater optimism and a strong belief in growth in the future. It was predicted that Black Friday, which was on Friday, would be the biggest shopping party since 2008. The unemployment rate is falling in the United States. It's just 5.2 pst. by Americans who attend Christmas meetings without a job. It shows that there is reason for optimism in the United States. What about us here in the country? What are the North's thoughts about the future? In the previous week, Finans Norway's quarterly forecast survey survey asked about the expectations of its own economy and how they believe the economic situation of Norway as a whole will develop. The study shows that optimism is still good on its own behalf, but not to the Norwegian economy. People have brought with them falling oil prices, downsizing in oil-related industries and insecurity that is thus created. But unemployment in Norway is still low. The last published figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show an unemployment rate of 3.7 pst., which is a slight increase from the previous measurement. Make sure to have a job to go to is alpha and omega, tell a lot. Having a job has an impact on the economy and the social. In short, it is health-promoting to be at work. As Svein Flötten said in his article earlier today: The biggest inequality in society is having a job or not. Yes, it is a high priority task for this government to create several safe Norwegian jobs, which will also help to strengthen the financing of our welfare systems. The high level of wage and cost and low interest rates have contributed to an increase in household income and liabilities over the last few years. Household debt is growing faster than income, and the ratio of debt to income is historically high. It is clear that the high household debt makes the Norwegian economy vulnerable to events that may be difficult to predict in advance. It is therefore decisive that we are able to create safe jobs, and we have a government that prioritises measures that promote value creation and increase productivity in the Norwegian economy. We have a government that conducts a tax policy that will have a good impact on value creation and income over time. Yes, we have a budget for 2015 that is well adapted to today's situation, and I refer to the cooperation agreement between the Right, the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which says: «The Parties shall base their policy on the creation of values before they can be shared. The value creation shall be stimulated throughout the country. Norway’s infrastructure needs to be strongly upgraded, more road and rail infrastructure needs to be developed, and innovation, research and development needs to be pursued. The cooperation parties will strengthen a comprehensive and broad Norwegian business life and facilitate private ownership.’ This budget provides a very good response to this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2850	Today, the important climate conference of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Lima began, a crucial step forward towards the absolutely necessary agreement that we need in Paris in 2015. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Norway about the Norwegian initiative on climate action internationally. There is a broad consensus on the investment in the rainforest, and we support it under the job that the government is doing in the negotiations that are going on. Here we need an international agreement that has the necessary level of ambition. Then it's good that the equation brings with it 200 miles. kr extra, i.e. a doubling of the support, into the green fund – the green fund that needs to be built up towards Paris in 2015 – so that we can get a basis for a new agreement. But it is equally important that, at the beginning of next year, we have to present our own level of ambition for climate change towards 2030. The EU has set its ambition level of 40 pst. reduction. And for the Left, it is absolutely essential that Norway should have at least one target that is similar to that in the EU. It requires extensive migration over the next 15 years. Although the measures and climate action in this budget are not sufficient to achieve the Norwegian climate targets by 2020, it is taking a large step after eight years of standstill, and that is good. It is particularly in the transport sector that we see major changes being made. One thing is the investment on the railroad with over 500 million. kr, which means that we reach a level where the maintenance run is reduced and is the basis for a bet in the future, but we also get the bet of 325 million. kr in the reward scheme, towards the major cities, which are sufficient for cities like Oslo to be able to avoid all traffic growth by foot, bicycle and public transport also in 2015. But the biggest change here comes from car charges and from the grip of the four batches, to make alternative cars and alternative fuels competitive with petrol and diesel. We have a long-term policy within electric cars, because now we have an exemption, we took another step last year to leave the electric cars that are leased, also get exemptions from VAT – but now it is the chargeable hybrids that become cheaper and more competitive than the traditional cars, and that is also a change in relation to biofuels. Increased mandatory placing on the market is important. It itself — given the same amount of fuel to next year — is a reduction of 200000 tonnes each year. Then you have the removal of the user fee for biodiesel. There we re-establish a measure that fell away under the red-green government, and bioethanol also gets better conditions. In addition, biogas is also made competitive. We're imposing a fee on air travel. Ferry offers: eco-friendly ferries and zero emissions requirements shall be required when the technology is available, as well as further action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in other areas. Enova is getting its budgets strengthened, it is investing in research, and the environmental technology system is being reinforced by 100 million. kr. Achieving the national climate targets requires many measures that move in the same direction. It requires action from the Stortinget, it requires implementation from the business community, and it also requires implementation from local authorities. And you have to take a big step every year. What the four parties have done in this budget is a significant step in the right direction after eight years of near standstill. The left is pleased with the consensus we now have, and is also looking forward to the cooperation we will have in the years to come in order to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves, both in 2020 and those that we will set ourselves in 2030.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2865	The Government has submitted a draft budget in the field of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, which is a major effort. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left has helped to secure the bet that the government had proposed, but also helped to make it even better. This means that there is a satisfied minister of justice and preparedness who can say that security in everyday life is more than a gleam for this government and for the majority of this House – because it is an important foundation in a rule of law. When the government has as one of its main objectives to build up under the security of its citizens, it is a great deal of instruments that need to be used. In the justice sector, it is important that these instruments are seen in the context. For many years we have listened to politicians from previous government parties who have talked about this context in the criminal chain. Now we have a practical budget proposal and compromise, which strengthens the whole chain of criminal proceedings – not only with words but also with resources. What we do on the prevention side has direct implications for what we have to do or not do on the police side and the investigation side, which in turn affects the working conditions and scope of the prosecution authorities in the courts and, finally, the need for places in the criminal justice system. I am therefore very proud that the government in the draft government budget for 2015 has given priority to all these areas of activity, and that budgetary reconciliation strengthens and takes care of this effort. Ensuring that the police are net assigned 350 PB1 positions, posts for newly educated people, is an important and necessary boost on the road to achieving the target of a police coverage of two police officers per thousand by 2020. It is also important to ensure that the police are better able to handle their tasks, where prevention is a fundamental and horizontal pre-requisite in all the work the police are doing. In addition, the bet will improve preparedness. Then we have seen that the quality of research over time has been subject to criticism. There are a number of improvements that the police are now working to implement to ensure that quality is improved. At the same time, however, we need to facilitate and ensure that the police have the necessary competence and framework conditions for faster and better investigation and prosecution work. Therefore, it is a significant strengthening when approx. 50 new police lawyers can join the police in 2015. At the same time, strengthening higher prosecution authorities with twelve state attorneys, which allow the higher prosecution authority to ensure the quality and follow-up of police investigations in police districts, is also crucial. In 2014, the government proposed to suspend the suspension of employment in the courts. It was the first year in a long time when new judges were appointed. For 2015, the budgetary agreement continued this effort, this time with seven new Judges, eleven new hearings or case-handling positions and three auditors in the Supreme Court. Crime prevention represents an unusual challenge. Capacity is too low, in particular the number of closed prisons is a challenge. There are limited possibilities to increase capacity in the short term, but the government has proposed – and has, together with the cooperation parties on the Stortinget – to increase the number of closed locations by 41 in 2015. In addition, we are still working on the possibility of renting prisons abroad, where prisoners can zone all or part of the sentence in other countries. Before Christmas, the government will present a criminal health report to the Stortinget, which will give the Stortinget the opportunity to look at challenges and solutions in a long-term perspective. In addition, this government delivers a long-term demand for four youth places in the eastern region, with its own youth unit. In order to adapt the Norwegian police to a more demanding and different everyday life, the government will also present a case to the Stortinget on the police reform. The plan is that the matter is presented just before or shortly after Christmas. The purpose of the reform is to have a police officer present and coming where they are needed. At the same time, the reform must ensure more robust professional environments, for example for the investigation of issues of violence and abuse against children and violence in close relationships, as well as major and comprehensive other issues, such as: organised profit-based crime. It's proposed 150 million. kr to that reform in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2886	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2889	The Minister of Justice is making his budget as good as possible, and that is in some areas. However, there are also serious concerns from large parts of the sector about the cuts in the budget also included. Yes, even from the exclaimed winner, the police, there is feedback that the cuts have greater consequences than the additions. Staff members of criminal services have been clear all along: the cuts go beyond the rehabilitation and security of employees and prisoners. They are also not satisfied with what is called the temporary solution, as the duplication is. Having a well-rehabilitating content is an effective prevention measure that increases social security. The prison director’s figures show that the proportion of employees is quite stable, but the proportion of prisoners has increased between 4 and 5 pst. Now it's closer to 100 pst. occupations in prisons. My question to the minister is: Is he concerned with the content of prisons, and what will he do to make those who come out of prison less criminal than those who go into prison?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2894	I am pleased that the Labour Party's representative boasts of the government's draft budget. I've noted that in the margin, so I'm going to bring it with me. So in terms of efficiency, it's 50 centimeters. It is a transition and an efficiency that is relatively modest in the broad context. I believe that the vast majority of state, public agencies are able to have a 50- centurion conversion and efficiencies – or what has now become 60 centurion – in one year, without dramatic consequences anywhere. I can only understand that the Workers' Party must also be quite satisfied with the reduction in efficiency, because in their alternative budget it is not suggested that it should be reversed. So the Labour Party is behind the proposal that the government has made in this area. To the question of content: I am concerned about content, but I believe that in order to ensure better content in Norwegian prisons, there is also a need to have a capacity that is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2901	I want to commend the Council of State for a good report and I want to commend him on the initiatives taken, and also proudly sign a lot of what we have done together in the Justice Budget, both the strengthening of the police and, as the Council of State is also concerned, that we have with the whole criminal chain. It's important. Then there is also an important element on the part of the Christian People's Party, for which we have had the advantage in the negotiations, to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings, and I know that the government has had a desire to lift that field. The action plan against trafficking in human beings is going out this year, and as one in the Government Declaration warns that action against trafficking in human beings should be stepped up, I want to know what the Council of State thinks about the next action plan and, if necessary, how to follow up to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings, as well as the proposals we have now received in the conciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2908	The proposal in the conciliation is a welcome strengthening of the ability of the police to organise themselves in a slightly different way from what one has done so far, to ensure that one has competence and robustness in some of the environments that already exist today. As far as the action plan is concerned, it is important that we continue to follow it up in the future with regard to ensuring the way we are now working with action plans in the government, so that there are not action plans that have no concrete content but are investigating, evaluating and coming back to them. The work on a new action plan on trafficking in human beings is well under way, but it is important that there should be an action plan that should be concrete, with concrete action points and that is followed up not only in the police track but in a number of other tracks. So there's something we have to do more across than just do what's in the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2913	It is the management of the police that is exercised in the situation, for example in the event of a terrorist attack or an accident, that is crucial to the outcome. We learned that from July 22th. Since 1995, the defence has developed and introduced a decentralised management philosophy, known as operational management, to ensure initiative, creativity, ownership of work, sense of responsibility and thus collective commitment. Combined with this management philosophy, we need to have a close-up police force that can provide a shorter response time for the police across the country – that is, the opposite of centralisation. Police must come as quickly as the municipal fire and rescue services. That's why the Senter Party has a 200-million bet on the local police. kr in the budget. Unfortunately, it does not have a majority, but my question is as follows: Is the Council of State agreeing with the philosophy of management of operation-based police management, and will the Council of State work towards a reduction in response time, so that the police are in place as quickly as the fire and rescue facilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2922	I think this is a very good kick-off for a good discussion about management. I'll answer as quickly as I can in one minute. I think it's a very crucial perspective that management should take place at all levels of the police. I actually tend to turn the pyramid around and say that the management of the police is from below and up in the first row, precisely because it's as surgical as it should be. This is a focus that now also the police through several rounds have been very clear about following up downwards. As far as response time is concerned, I fully agree with the representative, Lundtegen, that response time is crucial for the police to be at the scene in time. But I'm not sure we'll let the local fire service set the norm for that response time. The reason for this is that approx. 70 pst. by Norwegian firefighters are on voluntary service, and if one is to compare response time in the fire service with police response time, one will quickly find himself in a situation where officials are simply not available enough to achieve such a goal. But we need an ambitious response time target, and we need clear demands and expectations for the police response time in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2931	I understand that the Council of State is pleased with the agreement, because the husband of a petty and unsolidarous cut, which we find in the budget of the Council of State, is to be looked for a long time. This applies, for example: the service centre of the au pairs, which are the most vulnerable workers, and which may be exposed to just trafficking in human beings, which the Council of State was currently engaged in. It is also a matter of removing the money that could have allowed young people who have spent several years of their lives — their infancy — to go to kindergarten at the reception. I actually thought that we agreed, and that everyone knew, that going to kindergarten is very important – especially for immigrant kids to learn Norwegian. There have been many reports — last 14 days ago — that show that it is essential that children go to kindergarten to learn Norwegian. Then my question becomes: why does the Council of State think it is good that children who live at reception for years, where most of them are going to live in Norway, do not start learning Norwegian early?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2940	I don't think it's good that children live on asylum reception for years at all. I think that in itself is a big problem. It is therefore essential for this government to ensure that asylum applications are processed quickly and that we have a new reception structure, which distinguishes between those who are not allowed to stay and those who are to be returned and who are to stay and who are to be in the country. I am absolutely convinced that having an effective asylum procedure means that asylum seekers can quickly clarify their situation and know if they should be returned, and that either all efforts are made to ensure that they are actually returned, or – if they are to be – make every effort to integrate them, is the best. This applies not only to the integration through kindergartens or language training, but also to the integration that allows a rapid settlement in a community. I am absolutely convinced that when this government's policy on asylum has its full effect, and we have the right time to deal with it, we are no longer in the situation that there are children who live for many, many years on asylum recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2950	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2953	Norway will face many and major challenges in the coming years. Strong population growth, older people, growing cities, other parts of the country that need new growth, immigration, climate change — it is key to some of the societal changes that Norwegian society needs to face. The Labour Party believes that these societal changes are the best that we can meet together. And we're doing it by equipping the country's municipalities to give our kids a good start in kindergarten and at school, by expanding good local health services and by building up enough capacity and recruiting enough people, so that we can provide them with more and more older good and custom-made services. A good local economy is the prerequisite for doing this. The working party will spend the big money on the big problems. That's why the school and the municipal welfare services are the main priorities for the Workers' Party in our alternative budget for 2015, where we put in a total of about 3.4 billion. kr more to the municipalities than is the government's draft budget for the next year. When the government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has tax cuts as its main contribution to the 2015 budget, the majority leave the difficult priorities to the local politicians of the country. The last municipal barometer, which was carried out in October this year, after the state budget was presented, shows that two thirds of the councillors and rapporteurs surveyed respond to the fact that they will have a lower economic space for action until next year. Last week, KS’ chief economist pointed out that when retirement and demography are withdrawn, the municipalities may only be left with about 1.4 billion. kr to next year. He also points out that many municipalities will have to use the free revenues next year to cover the tax failure of the year, for which the government categorically refuses to compensate, even though it has done so for the last two times it has been tax failure in the municipalities, respectively by the Bondevik II Government and the Advance Party in 2004 and by the Red-Green Government in 2009. The government's lack of willingness to bet on the municipalities is evident when the local government around the country in these days makes its budget for the next year. Here in the capital, city government politicians must cut for 327 million. kr. At the other end of the country, in Alta, run by the Right and the Advance Party, it is set up to ensure that teachers have to cover up for sick colleagues, that kindergarten workers have to do double jobs when others are ill, and that health workers have to put up with extra efforts for colleagues. In Porsangs, not so far away, the Right-Rapporteur says that the cuts will all notice in the municipality. In a line change earlier today, the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party said that we should not interfere with the priorities of the municipalities. I agree, of course, that we should respect local democracy and local priorities, but at the same time, the Stortinget has very high expectations of what municipalities should do in schools and care for the elderly and very many other areas. In that case, local politicians must also be able to expect the Stortinget to provide a financial framework for those who are in line with the demands we are making. That lack of coherence in the municipal structure that the majority of the population will adopt tonight for 2015. Prior to the 2013 elections, the choice between well-being and tax cuts was a very central issue. The answer from the Right and Advance Party was that you did not have to choose. In Bergen and Stavanger, the local people elected by the government parties experience a somewhat different reality than the Right and Advance Party are prejudiced here on the Stortinget. They introduce and increase property taxes, respectively, in order to avoid painful cuts in welfare and school. For the Progress Party and the Right, which has prejudiced the excellence of growth-promoting tax cuts, it must be a paradox that tax cuts are at the expense of the local economy in a way that forces the growth of taxes in cities run by the government parties. Norway has good finances and opportunities to invest in the future, and unlike many other countries, we do not need to cut welfare services, kindergarten and school. We can choose where we want to bet, and I believe that the majority of people abuse this possibility by prioritising tax cuts that will both lead to greater differences and force many municipalities to cut off what they don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2970	The State budget will provide real solutions to real challenges for real people, but it will also equip Norway for the future. Therefore, the government's main action is to invest in the education of our children, on the road and rail, in health and justice, and not least a strong boost to climate and environmental technologies. The government also prioritises those who need our common help most: stronger commitment to drug treatment and psychiatry, the right to user-driven personal assistant, lower child care prices for those with the lowest income, the proposal that parents on social assistance should not be less paid if their youth work alongside school, grant schemes for families with poor finances, so that they can travel on vacation or have access to leisure equipment, the biggest tax relief for those who have the least from before, through increased deductions – all these are examples of government prioritising welfare measures that mean far too many in everyday life. At the same time, we need to equip Norway for a future where the oil economy is becoming less important and the older wave is increasing. If we're to maintain the welfare we all appreciate, it has to be created more, not taxed more. At the same time, we must start the transition to a low-carbon economy. Norway has technology, competence and capital to demonstrate that it is possible to combine high living standards with low emissions. Environmental and climate challenges are global challenges that require both national and international action. Norway shall be a driver of an ambitious international climate agreement in Paris in 2015. We only have one globe. It must help Norway to save. We cannot do the job alone, but we can show way in important areas, help to develop and implement new technologies and make a difference in important areas internationally. The social contract we live under is not just a contract between citizens and state, the social contract is just as much a contract between those who lived before us, us who live today and those who come after us. Therefore, the precautionary principle, the generational perspective and the administrative responsibility lie at the heart of the Right’s policy, and therefore the Right believes that climate policy must be integrated in all policy areas. We're on the threshold of a green shift. Renewable energy is becoming increasingly competitive compared to fossil alternatives. Battery and storage technologies are being researched more than ever before. Industry, construction and car manufacturers are getting more and more out of it. An important recognition begins to sink: the future belongs to those who dare to lie ahead. There is a good economy in producing efficient and environmentally friendly. In short, thinking green is now starting to give black numbers. This allows the market to be used in the service of the environment. We politicians are not going to run after, we're going to set up so that as many as possible see the attraction of leading, developing and implementing new technologies. One of the most important things we can do is to contribute to making environmentally friendly choices, industry and business have good support mechanisms for developing pilots and demonstration facilities, it is attractive to realise new renewable energy in Norway, that the public sector contributes by asking for environmentally friendly goods and services, and that new technologies are both developed and put into use. This is how emissions can be reduced, and so we can create new green jobs across the country. Governments and cooperative parties propose a number of measures to facilitate the transition to a low-carbon society: better depreciation rules for wind energy, higher entry point for rent taxes, increased efforts to promote climate and environmental technologies under both Enova and Innovation Norway, the continuation of the tax advantages for electric cars, cheaper hybrids, higher turnover of biofuels, the removal of biodiesel, the reduction of the bioethanol levy, better framework conditions for biogas for transport, faster phasing out of fossil oil firing in State-building buildings, new guidelines for environmental urban and urban development, stronger rail and public transport investment – to mention something. The list is long, I could still have, but I'm going to save you for this. There can be no doubt that the state budget is the greenest that has ever been presented in Norway, as the representative of Elvesuen was also involved. The fact that the petrol and diesel taxes are not restated does not change this. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left further reinforces the green profile in the budget, which all four parties are pleased with. In total, the measures in 2015 represent a completely necessary shift in the pace of environmental and climate policy and are in stark contrast to the red-green efforts in this area over the last eight years. Many seem to believe that climate challenges can be addressed by reducing the extraction of coal, oil and gas. It is true that the combustion of these fossil resources accounts for 80 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. However, energy needs do not disappear if one country voluntarily leaves resources on the ground, especially in a situation where more and more people are to be lifted out of poverty in the coming years. Therefore, it is more important that we contribute to the development and deployment of competitive alternatives to coal, oil and gas, whether in the transport sector, industry or the power sector, than it is that we leave fossil resources in the country at the highest CO2 taxes in the world. Managing the oil sector in Norway will not save the climate, but it will make our ability to maintain well-being and contribute to a green shift, outdoors and at home, much less. We don't get much greener, but we get considerably poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e2990	Health was one of the areas for the Advance Party in previous elections. We would have new solutions, shorter waiting time, higher quality and more freedom of choice. The Progress Party is fulfilling its commitments with this budget. This budget provides inter alia: on the retention of the rights of user-controlled personal assistant, which the red-greens trained for eight years, and facilitates a higher rate of growth in patient treatment than the red-greens were adopted throughout their reign. We're going to create the patient's healthcare. All shall have access to equivalent quality health services through increased appropriations, clear priorities and new solutions, funded by the public. During 2015, the government will launch a series of actions and improvements that the Progress Party has fought for over many years, such as the introduction of free treatment options. This is a very important reform for the Progress Party because freedom of choice is high for us. Free treatment options start first for those who need it the most, namely for those who struggle with addiction and mental disorders. Lack of co-determination and tailor-made offers have prevented the treatment being given from actually working. Therefore, the introduction of free treatment options is very important. I regret that many for ideological reasons, or for self-interest, do not support this work. 200 lucky days places within long-term treatment have now been purchased across the country, and this continues in 2015. A lot of people now have a new opportunity. At the same time, it is essential that municipalities follow up with post-protection. Therefore, in line with the policies of the Progress Party, we strengthen teams and organisations as well as earmark funds for the work on drugs and for the recruitment of several community psychologists. The 180-million-dollar strength. kr to health centres and school health services in the current year have given many new health sisters across the country. This appropriation is continued and increased by an additional 270 million. kr. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals for a national health and hospital plan. Now we finally get this. After several years of closure of local hospitals, long queues and many Corridor Asians, we will get a proper overview of the capacity, quality, deficiencies and challenges. Furthermore, for the first time, a notice on primary health services and a long-term extension of the escalation plan for the drug field shall be provided. It's the patient who's going to be at the center of all the changes that are being made. We want to strengthen patients' rights. Now we do what we've always said: we put the patient in front of the system. The Progress Party is pleased that we are now using all the good forces and introducing a new course in the view of interaction and cooperation between public and private and non-profit actors. Diversity contributes to freedom of choice, innovation and efficiency. Much is good in Norwegian healthcare. In a number of areas, research and analysis show that we are achieving good results. Skilled employees do an invaluable job and provide good quality throughout the day. At the same time, the Progress Party has pointed to important areas where changes and improvements are needed. Too much variation in quality between hospitals, municipalities and services testifies to the potential for improvement. We need to take care of what is good and improve what can be improved. We are strengthening cancer care in several areas. In 2015, standardised packaging processes for cancer treatment and multidisciplinary diagnostic centres are introduced in all regions. This too has been a driving force for several years. Patients must have rapid access to new and innovative medicinal products. It is therefore gratifying that the de minimis threshold for reimbursement of medicinal products is increased from 5 to 25 million. kr, after having remained silent for many years. A statutory right to the care and care of the lucky day shall be first investigated for introduction. Through the first two budgets of the government, the state has already taken a greater financial responsibility, which is now being expanded to something that we in the Progress Party have always been left alone, namely a pilot scheme with State funding for the care of the elderly. It is a pleasure that the interests of the municipalities around this have been very strong, despite the fact that the scheme has not yet been announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3011	A representative of the Progress Party wrote in an explanatory note following the budget proposal that the State budget ‘takes Norway in the right direction’. Among other things, he pointed. on: ‘The budget for the livestock sector is increasing by almost 20 per cent. Norway has 350 new police officers and 69 police lawyers. More than 10 000 criminal foreigners and non-residents are sent out in 2015. It is noted that FrP now has a hand on the steering wheel of the State budget.’ My comment is: Yes, it's noticed. The State budget takes Norway in a new direction, and the issues that the representative wrote about show which. This is the first budget of this government, and the reactions have been massive – not positive, but negative. It's the unsocial profile that people respond to. The cuts in the wealth tax are the main priority – not surprising. What provokes people is that the Right Party and the Advance Party talk like this is cut that primarily benefits most people and ordinary people, while the reality is that more than half of the tax cuts are cut in the wealth tax, that is. essentially cut off the taxes of those who have the most of them. The Ministry of Finance's own survey shows that a person with a income of around NOK 300000 gets about 800 kroner less in taxes per year, while one who makes $2 million. NOK and above, will receive approximately NOK 40000 in tax cuts per year. That's the actual profile. We like to present Norway as a country with small differences, which is highlighted by many as an advantage. Small differences were the policy of the red-green government. Good distribution is about justice, but also means a lot to economic development, growth and stability in a society. That's part of the core of the Nordic model. The reality of this government's policy is that they give priority to the part of the population that already has the most, in their budget, which will increase the differences between people. Some countries have believed that it is possible to have welfare services at the level of the Nordics, but at the level of the US. I can't. It's clearly shown us over the last few years. The welfare community is a sprawl layer through, among others. taxes and taxes that we pay. When tax revenues are reduced, welfare services need to be cut or even more oil money used. The Workers' Party does not support the tax cuts, but will instead spend the money on welfare services in 2015. The right criticised the red-green government for spending too much oil money in its budget proposals and demanded proposals from the Stoltenberg government to reduce the tax bill for our children. Prime Minister Erna Solberg said in the election campaign that the Right would make Norway less oil dependent. It's time to ask Right what they're thinking now, with record oil spending next year. The Labour Party will not go into this oil industry in next year's budget; we will spend 2 billion. kr less. Finally, some comments on the profile in the budget of the Right and Advance Party: there are not so many traces after the election promises of new ideas and better solutions. The government itself created great expectations for this budget, but has not fulfilled it. I respect that not everything can be resolved in one budget. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that the profile shows one focus, namely tax cuts and the use of more oil money, and this profile is also retained after the conciliation. The Right and Advance Party promised that road and rail would be planned and built in the mid-term. There was going to be more money going on without a bomb, for the development of the railway, for the elderly and school. These promises are already broken. Instead of removing the booms, the Progress Party shall now demand the tolls smarter and set up more. The budget will lead to cuts in important municipal and county services, the main services for most people, such as health, care for the elderly, schools and kindergartens. It was not the great teacher lift, and the railway and road projects are not provided, but are carried out as the red-green government put it in the NTP. In this budget, the Progress Party and the Right have not been able to address the challenges we face in the future, in relation to the fact that oil revenues will fall, and that there is a need for the transformation and organisation of new jobs, in relation to the fact that we have an increasing number of older people, and in relation to the need to convert to the low-carbon society and create the jobs of the future. The government's announced comprehensive review of car charges and green tax change do not look at the budget. On the contrary, it is outsourced and – as so much as possible – will be investigated by a sample. The budget has improved, however, through the negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left, but there is a need for greater efforts here. The working party will continue the conversion of the car charges we were in the process of stimulating a more environmentally friendly car park. We will stimulate households through increased transfer to Enova and stimulate industrial and business conversion by expanding the environmental technology system. The Labour Party has a recognisable profile, where we focus on knowledge, health, climate and well-being in our budget, and where we will invest in solutions and actions in the future and see sectors in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3045	The centre party wants an industrial policy that takes the whole country into action. We don't want this to be done with the country's territory. We want it because it's important for the country's value creation, it's important to exploit the natural resources that we have in our country. Then a business-neutral policy is not the way to go. The government is cultivating its business-neutral policy, and sometimes one can get the impression that industrial policy has become synonymous with taxes on wealth. The centre party wants a business policy for all traders, including those who have not started their own business or business. In other words, one must have an active industrial policy. That is a policy which has a rate of, for example, regional development funds, not a policy in which a cutter. I also record that the government has initiated a process of clearing up Innovation Norway — or attacking Innovation Norway. We have one thing in Stortinget now that the government is asking for 43 million. DKK in support of getting rid of 50 employees in Innovation Norway. It's being cut, and it's centralized. The centre party wants to bet on Innovation Norway. It's hard to understand the government's motivation for cutting off the Marine value creation program. It's almost impossible to discover the reason that the government has. In the field of fisheries, we know that there are processes in progress to attack the participant law and challenge the Fish Sales Act. There are important carriers in the Norwegian fisheries policy – they have to go away if you want to believe the government’s signals. The government has also wanted to have a high profile in the farming industry. The truth is, it hasn't gone very well with that bet. One has today an unexplained situation in which the Minister for Fisheries, at the hearing, sent a proposal for several new concessions with lice requirements, without having anchored the lice requirements or had sufficient discussion with the industry in advance. The industry is turning its thumb down. The alarming thing about this is that although there is probably no growth now in 2015, however, the government has budgeted for over 1 billion. SEK on revenues from the sale of those concessions, and one has promised another SEK 540 million. kr to the host municipalities for these concessions – money that you are unlikely to see in 2015. Another small but important thing: Norwegian self-employment. It's ironed with a pen stroke. Neither the Left or the Christian People's Party in the budget negotiations could or would keep the self-employed. I wonder whether this could be due to the need to become popular in Brussels. In the field of agriculture, it is difficult to deal with government policies. A number of proposals are played without the necessary majority in the Stortinget. It is alarming that once the Stortinget has decided to increase food production, the government is proposing to cut research in the agricultural field, a necessary condition for success in an effort to increase Norwegian food production based on Norwegian resources. The Christian People's Party and the Left were able to reverse this, but it's far from enough to reach the goal. In its alternative budget, the Central Party has boosted research by 100 million. kr. We've added 0.5 billion. to reduce income differences between farmers and other groups. We have also provided funds for an action plan against antibiotic resistance, 30 million. kr. Neither does it look as if government and the Council of State are taking the issue seriously, and the Council of State comes up with flakes as if she is more concerned with action than with action plans. The centre party has presented a forest package in its alternative budget of 1 billion. kr above the government level, where we take the whole food chain. We consider the forest to be part of the climate solution. Finally, it is strange to hear FrPs blaming the majority in the Storting for lack of ability to bet on traffic, when the truth is that even with this budget, the Storting is adding to more than the Progress Party's own State Council has proposed. It is time to take responsibility for the policy itself. The Centre has provided an alternative budget in the field of business, which will give a strong boost to industrial development throughout the country. The government should do that, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3068	It is completely impossible to recognize in the picture that the representatives Tore Hagebakken and Irene Johansen from the Workers' Party here from the pulpit are trying to create from the government's health policy. Without prejudice to hearing errors, but I don't think I do, they're trying to leave an impression of a budget that cuts, and that's unsocial in the field of health care and the care of the elderly. The representatives must have read some completely different documents than I have been working on in the last few weeks, because the state budget as the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are agreed on, since Norway is equiping for the future – also in the health field – and is betting more on important areas than the red-green government has been doing for eight years. A good upbringing is about a good school with skilled teachers, but also about early help when childhood and youth are facing challenges. This is why the focus on prevention and health station services is important. It's about more midwives, more health sisters, more psychologists, more physiotherapists and more logo horses. As a result of a very good budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we're betting over 450 million. in early interventions and prevention for children and young people. It means a lot of new professionals out in the municipalities. Never has it ever been invested as much in this field as our government does next year. Building safe children and young people is perhaps the best way to rust Norway for the future. The quality of our society is measured by how we take care of those who need our care and care in everyday life. The NRK report on Edgar in 88 years of age and the violation of human rights in the care service is disturbing us all. Senior consultant Marit Lomundal Sæther at the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights tells the NRK that they have collected documentation for their study that extends over a relatively long period of time, and many active actors in the field have for a long time notified the authorities of problematic events. These are not just single events, but also larger surveys over several decades that do not seem to have been done in practice, says the NRC. When, in 2011–2012, the Health Inspectorate examined the procedures of Norwegian municipalities for the use of coercion in hospitals, they revealed offences in 89 of 103 controlled municipalities. There is no lack of reports, monitoring and reporting on care for the elderly in Norway. What was missing in the red-green government period was the ability to go from being system defenders to changing services with measures to improve supply. For our government and cooperation parties, it is important to build a professionally strong care service in the municipalities. That is why we also ensure that the State assumes greater responsibility for the municipal social services – both for capacity and quality. We've increased the state grant share from 30 to 50 pst. and has contributed to the budget for the following year to 2500 more institutional places. The evening post gave us the autumn fasit at what the red-green government in its years succeeded in this field. There were 567 new places, if I don't remember wrong. It is simply not good enough, and our government has from day one a force to stimulate the municipalities to expand several places. As important as the safety of hospital accommodation, the patient is met with quality in care and quality requires competence. That is why we are now strongly committed to developing the skills of municipal care by 400 million. kr next year. It also includes a new master’s programme for advanced care, which includes important management training. The NRK report told us about a care service that needs to be characterized in the future by more professionalism, more cooperation with the user himself and related and more quality assurance work. Therefore, a quality register for municipal health and care services is now established. However, ensuring quality of service is not just the responsibility of the manager or politician. We also need to ensure that each health worker takes active ownership of quality. It involves closer cooperation with the nurturing and its relatives, preferably through user and family selections. So we're going to make sure that Edgar and others experience a dignified and meaningful old age.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3085	In the throne, the government promised to bet on climate. Prime Minister Erna Solberg said, inter alia: the following in the Stortinget on 7 October: ‘Increasing emissions globally make the need for action more and more urgent.’ Yeah, that's a good thing. The Prime Minister was followed by Høres Nikolai Astrup, who said: «Now we show that in the government we lead in the green shift. That is what a conservative government is to do.» The next day we were presented with the government's budget proposal. It's rare there's so far between what you're saying and what you're actually doing. It wasn't a green budget. There was no investment in climate. The pledges to bet on the climate were canceled by the Minister of Finance when she entered the Parliament's pulpit. All parties other than the government parties have taken greater responsibility for climate policy through their alternative budgets than what the government actually did. There is no doubt that the Right and Advance Party are extremes in Norwegian climate policy. That Right Nikolai Astrup is now trying to reject this, helps little – it will be possible to go back to October 8th and look at the reactions after that time. Then we've got a deal. I will give tribute to the Left and Christian People's Party for what they have done. It is difficult to move an extreme, where parts of the extreme still refuse to recognise the man-made climate change. That was perhaps what the Prime Minister thought about when she made the following statement: It's tougher to stand up for the climate in a government where someone isn't so concerned about it. But in sum it has not become a green budget, as the Minister for Climate and Environment said here today. Some even claim that the climate agreement has been reinforced. It is with respect to report wrong. The climate agreement is unchanged, and it looks like the government is refusing to come to Stortinget and invite you to a new climate settlement. In this budget, there is also no start to emissions cuts by 2020 or a start to the path towards the low-emission society. Today we hear in the debate that the Minister for Climate and Environment invites business to participate in the green shift. I think business would be more stimulated to participate in a green shift with the Workers' Party's budget proposal, where both the eco-innovation scheme, the climate technology scheme and the focus on entrepreneurs through a growth package are more focused than in the conciliation. Budgetary realism has also been mentioned in the debate today. The purchase of climate allowances has been the theme because this entry in the budget agreement is zeroed out. The right parliamentary leader today says that this is realistic budgeting, while the Minister for Climate and Environment has difficulty answering Åsmund Aukrust's questions in the change of line. When we asked the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment in the Question Time last Wednesday about this, Tine Sundtoft replied: ‘It is not this Council of State’s style either to extend towards its own government or to extend towards the Storting.’ Yes, that's the best thing to say. I have a great deal of understanding that the Council of State Sundtoft chose to keep quiet, even if it can't be easy – even for a sensible southerner. Finally, falling oil prices and tightening oil companies have created a difficult situation for many who work in the oil-related part of Norwegian business. I note that the Prime Minister mentioned this in his statement earlier today. An effective measure that would have had immediate effect would have been to implement an approximation of the overall demand of the Norwegian industry, namely to reverse the unreasonable and very demanding changes made by the current government in the law on permitation. It would have helped a lot of companies that are now in a critical situation in terms of losing their painfully needed skills in the future. But no, even this simple and self-evident measure is accepted by the government. If we sum up what we look at in the government budget, it is a government that takes Norway in the wrong direction, not only in the short term, but unfortunately also in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3118	Today's debate is about how we want to shape society in the future. What are we going to do today to make Norway the world's best country to live in, too, in the future? We have it incredibly well, and we live in a society of prosperity and harmony. However, many people in today's society are struggling, and it is important that we give priority to helping those groups in society that need it the most. We'll do that in this budget. We strengthen measures against child poverty, we strengthen child protection, we strengthen the fight against drug addiction, to mention something. One of the most important things that politicians can do is to think in the long term, so that we can create a society that will be the best possible for as much as possible – not only for us who are here today, but also for our children and grandchildren who are going to take over after us. In the budget that we are to adopt today, we see the value of a non-socialist majority – we see the value of the four cooperation parties following up the new course that was set out by the government and in the cooperation agreement one year ago. It is a new course that was wanted by the Norwegian people based on the 2013 Storingsvalle. The agreement reflects a common value base where it's about creating values before they can be shared. The use of oil revenues is reversed towards investments in the future. When the action rule was introduced in 2001, it was emphasised that the action space from the phase-in phase of the oil fund was to be used to increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. For 2014 and 2015, the total investment in knowledge, transport and tax relief, i.e.: bet on value creation, clearly greater than in the eight years with the red-green government. We saw a change of pace for the investment in knowledge as the Right-Fremskritsparte government promoted its first budget for 2014. And then I'm talking about the whole chain of knowledge that is important to the country's ability to create values -- a good school where students learn more, quality in higher education, research and action that ensures greater exploitation of research results in business. Today's budget agreement involves a massive commitment to primary and secondary education through empowerment measures and further training of teachers. The budget also represents a significant commitment to quality in higher education. Both the study support and the number of student housing to be built are also increasing in 2015 – the year after a real student raising in 2014, a rise in earnings after many lean years with the red-green government. Since Erna Solberg took over as Prime Minister, we have noticed a shift in research policy. According to NIFU, public funding for research has never previously accounted for a higher share of GDP. The proposed State budget for 2015 by the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration represents a real growth of 4.2 pst. This growth comes the year after a real growth of 4.1 pst. in the 2014 budget. The budget negotiated between the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party is further strengthened in terms of research. The budgetary agreement also represents a strong commitment to new business, new technology and innovation. Two new seed funds shall be set up, in which the State supports private investors to develop new enterprises, which in many cases have their origins in university and research environments. The government has ambitious objectives in its knowledge policy and, at the same time, with the budget, it presented a long-term plan for research and higher education. In 2015, the government will also present a key message on quality and structure in higher education. This means that in the year ahead, we are facing important debates on how to set up the knowledge policy to ensure value creation through safe jobs, which is the whole basis for our well-being in the future. Priority will be given to the development of world-leading professional environments, funds for the creation of a new structure in the sector, more recruitment positions and money for equipment and university buildings. The award of the Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine to May-Britt and Edvard Moser from NTNU shows that we have world-leading environments in Norway. The government is now making it possible for us to attract even more ‘only’ people by offering good conditions for professional work. In addition, the government is betting on instruments that we know stimulate business to invest more in research. The user-driven innovation arena, the BIA, and the TaxFUNN are increasing. The government also proposes a commitment to commercialising good ideas through a significant strengthening of FORNY and the nationwide establishment grant scheme in Innovation Norway. Much is going well in Norway today, but, as many have said, we are also facing some challenges in the future. Then it is good for a government to respond to the challenges we face, prioritizing investment in what will ensure that Norway becomes one of the world’s best countries to live in — even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3146	The municipal framework for the next year has been discussed by several in the debate today, and it's nice that it's in focus. I must say that when I followed the debate from the office and heard the representative Helga Pedersen talk, I began to wonder why she could call the budget so bad. I registered what she said about the next budget they put on red-green, and one could read the same representative's comment on the Internet that it was a historic leap for the municipalities, but when we put more on the table of the municipalities, it is said that it is a bad move. What is now on the table from the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, is a growth in the municipalities' total revenues of 7.8 billion. NOK 4,7 billion. kr is free income. This growth corresponds to a real growth of 1.5 pst, which is at the level of growth in recent years. The real space for action, on the other hand, is larger, because the demographic costs are estimated to be lower, and adjusts for them, as well as looking at pension costs, this budget, which is now on the table of the four bourgeois parties, will make up more money for the municipal sector in free play than the last red-green budget proposal would have done. Therefore, it is interesting to see what was said in the debate when a discussed municipality area in 2013, before the elections. At that time, the then state councillor in the municipal field, Liv Signe Navarsete, said that the 2013 elections would be more than a direction option, for some municipalities would also be a destiny choice. Now, when we see what's put on the table from the four bourgeois parties, this scare is put to shame. So it's interesting to see what they red-green, when they've come out of government offices, present in their alternative budget, because now they have more money than they had when they were in position. I believe that when one has been sitting and delivering the municipal budget for eight years, it is not possible to come the year after one has left the office, and to increase and over-crowd completely within the municipality area. The local politicians don't think I'm going to the Workers' Party website to see what they could have gotten into working party politics. I rather think they sit down and think about what it was like to be local politicians in the eight years of the Workers' Party was the big party. Then they'll think that it was a time when one had it tough, was forced to cut in the budget, but one had a big deal and a government that said that now there's money for absolutely everything. It's no longer like that. Now we have a large majority that is honest, which says that municipal politicians have to drive effectively, they don't get money for absolutely everything, and they're forced to drive smart and focus on driving effectively in the municipalities. The progress party is particularly pleased with this budget we now have on the table, is that there is room found to raise some municipalities in particular. We are very pleased that the municipalities of growth are now being raised. Today, there are 24 municipalities that are so-called municipalities of growth, but there is a new arrangement of this kind, and by increasing the size of the municipality, 68 municipalities are coming next year as municipalities of growth. It is municipalities that face major challenges with increasing population and investment needs. So we're glad we can meet them. We are also pleased that we can strengthen the community economy on the basis of the need to strengthen health centres and school health services, and that we can provide drug addicts and people with mental disorders with extra drugs. We are pleased with the funds that the government has put in and that the supporting parties are continuing. In addition, we are pleased that the support parties have contributed to making a good budget for the municipal sector even better, by negotiating more money for kindergartens, reducing parental payments and postponing the increase in the maximum price in kindergartens, plus an additional strengthening of health centres and school health services, increasing loss compensation for county municipalities, continuing the cultural walker and increasing the apprenticeship gap – to name some areas. Finally, the county councils also have an important role to play. They have great responsibilities in Norway, and we are pleased that the county councils are also given a solid boost, especially when it comes to the important task of the county councils: transport. There we have increased the interest compensation scheme from 2 billion. NOK 3 billion. kr and in addition, fresh funds of 20 mill. kr for upgrading the county roads. In addition, there is also a significant increase in tunnel maintenance. In addition to what is in the state budget for the transport sector, there is every reason to smell asphalt, both on national roads and on county roads, with the provision for the municipal sector and the municipal roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3166	Small differences – great opportunities. It's a very comprehensive description of our country. When the international environment analyses Norway and why we have done so well in almost all areas, there are very few differences. This very important core wall of our society is now being challenged. What is serious and – to be honest – very surprising is that the government is not using the space we have just to make use of the opportunities – the opportunities to meet tomorrow’s challenges. We know that we need to develop and transform our business. Fortunately, we have some time, but it is now that we have to establish the business that will ensure our well-being in 10-20 years. We have a very good starting point with a very competent and forward-looking business. The working party is absolutely certain that the chances of success are greatest in the industries where we have natural advantages. That's why we're very concerned that for the government, business neutrality is more important than anything else. I am very proud of the growth programme promoted by the Labour Party in its proposal for a State budget. We have traveled all over the country talking to business owners, entrepreneurs, trade unionists, researchers, investors, employees in the toolkit and many more. The recordings from these meetings have made our growth package meet. In particular, we have received many feedback that our accelerator program is important. Helping founders over the valley of death is crucial. For the Workers' Party, it is also important that the whole country participates in this growth. That's why we split up state capital so that the smaller investor environment can also be part of the competition for these funds. This is particularly important in North Norway where we have to recognise that we have less private capital than in other areas of the country. In addition, when the government cut regional development funds, it also hit the districts very hard. Some of the most positive things I have experienced on my travels in the last year are the visits to the founding house. Among other things, I have visited Mediegården in Bodø and FLOW in Tromsø. The founding and the innovativeness of these environments must be taken care of, and we must develop it further. The Workers' Party believes that all the entrepreneurs' houses around the country contribute something unique that we have not had in the past. Therefore, the instrument has to be more appropriate for such an environment. As I said, the Labour Party believes that we must give priority to the industries where we have natural advantages. Travel life is a striking example. The challenge has been that the industry itself does not have the power to exploit the opportunities offered by increased growth in tourism internationally. It has been taken up by them. The government’s thanks are that they cut into the business-oriented funds, which are supposed to support the companies’ work on national and international marketing. This means that for many travel businesses large investments have been wasted. Marine nutrition is another good example where the potential for growth in value added is enormous. The Labour Party therefore prioritises, inter alia: marine value creation programme and funds for a white fish package. The government, on the other hand, sacrifices the seafood industry on the altar of nutrition neutrality. All the worst in this way is cut in the self-afraid aid, which in reality involves the closure of that industry. In economic terms, it may not be the end of the world, but resource management is very serious. A third example is our maritime industry. I have to admit that I think it was reasonably strong to sit in the hearing of the Financial Committee and hear that the Norwegian Shipowners' Association criticises a civil government to weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian maritime transport by increasing the sectoral charges to the Coastal Agency. Over the past eight years, they have been waiting for tax breaks, and those that many others believed in the promises of the election campaign to reduce the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. Once we've been out there and presented our programme for growth across the country, everyone asks when this policy is launched. Unfortunately, I am afraid that it will not be until after the 2017 elections. But nothing will please me more than if the government copies the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3187	With the new majority at Stortinget and with a new government, we have had a shift in Norwegian transport policy. From being in a situation where the downturn on the road and the track have increased continuously, in 2015, for the first time in several decades, we will be in a situation where we actually reverse this trend. It's historic, and it shows that the government's policy is working, that we have a large number of people who are able to give priority to the important task of equipping Norway for the future. A aftermath has been calculated on the national roads of between 30 billion. kr and 45 brd kr, and on the county roads between 45 billion. kr and 75 brd. kr. The corresponding figures for the railway sector are approx. 17 B.C.E. kr. Together, we're talking about a maturity that it'll cost between 90 billion. kr and 140 br. I'm going to fix it. It's not just the government's fault, but even though they had a clean majority, they didn't choose to prioritise enough for maintenance. The consequences of non-maintenance and road and track downage are serious. Bad roads result in reduced prosperity and, perhaps even worse, unsafe roads. For the railway, it means less regularity and punctuality, which is the key to getting more goods from road to road, and getting more people to choose environmentally friendly. We realize that this challenge cannot be solved in one financial year. That is why we will continue to give priority to increasing efforts to maintain in the future budgets. The political priorities in the field of transport are going to be a quick discussion of how much money we spend compared to last year, and how much more we spend than any other party. It is important to focus more on transportation, but at the same time it is absolutely vital that we organize ourselves smarter and plan faster. The last government spent a lot of time telling them they fulfilled the NTP. The Minister of Transport informed earlier today that 22 of the projects in the previous NTP period were delayed and were not implemented under the Action Plan. It shows that the challenge is not just spending more money, but actually implementing the projects. Faster road and track planning requires predictability. We can solve that by organizing ourselves differently. The carrier will have a clear funding and therefore the company can plan longer distances more fully. This means that the uncertainty of annual budgeting is no longer present and that projects are started when they are actually planned. Much of the same will be achieved through the organisation of road and rail construction as public–private cooperation. In addition, it has been shown that OPS provides good incentives for faster implementation of the projects and with a more predictable risk to public authorities. It has a value in itself. The railway sector is also overly mature for reorganization. A company organisation with clear responsibilities and clear objectives will provide more efficient deployment and better provision for travellers. Right wants to compete with major routes, not because competition itself is an objective, but because it shows that it strengthens the players and provides a better offer. It is also gratifying to see that both the Railway Agency, the NSB and the Flytrain have made good contributions to reorganisation, all of which contain competition as an instrument, and that there have been many proposals for new models. I guess that just shows what we have said, that the railway sector is ready for new ideas and for reorganization. Common to both road and track are the need for faster levelling processes. It is not acceptable that a project should be planned for 10 years. This is why the government is working specifically to reduce planning time. One of the things that takes the most time is the treatment of all the objections. The attempt by the State to coordinate all state objections has been shown to produce good results. The government is therefore extending this scheme to 12 counties now. Government plan is another instrument that has been used only five times in the past. Then it says a little that the government has now announced that they will use it on two new European road sections to ensure rapid and effective planning. Planning and infrastructure are closely related to good spatial planning, not least in urban areas. Therefore, this is one of the most important environmental measures. Clear and committed urban environmental agreements will contribute to more coordinated planning in which urban agglomerations take place over the transport years. In this way, more people will also benefit from collective transport and reduce car use in these areas in the future. The government and the new bulk of population are well in the process of changing Transport Norway. Not only will we bet more in dollars, we'll think about new things and then we'll get organized. This is already producing results, but the biggest improvements are ahead of us when the road carrier is operational in 2015, several OPS projects are being launched, new railway structures are coming into place, and modernisation of Norway provides shorter planning time and faster processes. Today, the government solves tasks and equips Norway for future challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3219	The Progress Party voted that we would have a change of course in the policy. We promised, among other things: focus on health, education and research, on transport, reduced taxes and taxes, simplification in construction and reduced red tape. After one year with the Progress Party in government, this is already noticed. We're doing great. Hospital treatment queues have been reduced, building simplification is underway, and the bureaucracy facing individuals and businesses is in the process of being reduced in several areas. More money is allocated for road maintenance, and more roads are built. It should not be unknown to anyone that the Progress Party would like to build more roads without tolls, but, as you know, there is no majority for this in this Chamber. Taxes and taxes are reduced, and for the first time in history, citizens feel that petrol and diesel taxes do not increase in a state budget. With the Progress Party in government, both the population and the business community experience a reduction in taxes and taxes. The reduction in taxes and taxes on employment now contributes to job security and to the provision of new jobs. The policy of development and prosperity of the Progress Party requires a strong commitment to education and research. Good roads are not being built without well-qualified engineers and skilled workers. Nor do we get a better health sector if we do not have a good and adequate education in the field. The budget’s commitment to education and research reflects in a good way the Party’s education and research policy. Norway is very dependent on the success of the oil sector. Many enterprises have activities related to the oil sector. I am sure that the oil will provide good jobs for many decades to come, but the formidable growth that the oil sector has given the Norwegian economy seems to be decreasing. In particular, on the west coast, many people have received the rather pleasant message that the company they work for will reduce manning. Therefore, it is very important that the Johan Sverdrup field and other extensions start as planned. This will lead to a slight increase in activity after 2015. Today, Norway has a well-educated population, and many Norwegian companies have shown that they are able to meet new challenges with a combination of new knowledge and technology. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of today’s and future work, one of the main areas of action for the Right and the Advance Party is education and research. The budgetary agreement that the government parties have concluded with the Christian People's Party and the Left continues the main efforts in the government's draft government budget for 2015, ensuring growth and value creation throughout the country. The teacher is the most important resource for the student’s learning at school. The Progress Party is pleased that record teachers are offered further training. We are also pleased that the budget is increased by 50 million. for unskilled teaching staff at school. The cooperation agreement continues the government's commitment to the Vocational Training Plan, which was launched in the 2014 budget. The agreement ensures yet another increase in the apprenticeship allowance. With this year's proposal, the increase amounts to a total of DKK 7600 per apprenticeship contract. Before 2014, the grant had been on site for almost five years. Every year thousands of students go from studies to work. The government is increasing student funding by 3.1pst, which is well above the expected price increase. In the budget agreement, we are adding to the construction of 2,000 furniture units in 2015 – it is more than a double compared to the average under the red-green regime. All in all, the government's budget allows students to spend more time on the studies. A competitive working and business life requires that we have strong and robust educational institutions. According to NIFU, government appropriations for research have never previously accounted for a higher share of gross domestic product. This clearly shows that the government really prioritises and sets research. The UH sector is further strengthened in this agreement through increased basic appropriations. For example, the University of Stavanger receives a real growth of over 35 million. kr. In addition, the UIS, UIA and UIN have a total of 60 new recruitment positions. This means that research efforts at the new universities will be intensified, and they will have stronger professional environments and become even more attractive institutions. The agreement ensures an even wider research effort with additional funding for, inter alia: welfare technology, agricultural research and marine research. We are very pleased with this. A good Progress Party expression is the following quote: “The future is being created, it is not adopted.” With the negotiated agreement on which the government parties and the cooperation parties the Christian People’s Party and the Left agree, we facilitate the creation and safe development of today and the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3251	We've witnessed a slightly special budget harvest. The financial debate that we are now conducting was postponed because the negotiations went out, and we, who have been outside the negotiations, have been able to observe long and messy treatments. However, after the negotiations, the main conclusion remains, and it is that the main thrust of this budget is tax-free for those who already have a lot. At the same time, and that's what makes policy so clear, we've seen tightening for those who have the least. Many benefits in popular terms have been passed on nominally, as it is called. That means a real cut. Not least, there was much discussion about the proposal made by the government to cut the child supplement for disability. A total of NOK 28 000 was to be cut for each child for the disabled, and there has also been a proposal that those who are unemployed should have a total cut of 1 billion. NOK in the unemployment allowance, with sufficient budgetary impact only in 2016. Distribution is a word that is often used in this matter – and this is a distribution, a redistribution – but this time from those who have little, to those who have a lot from before. In the budget, the government announced an expected increase in unemployment, and in an interpellation debate here in the Chamber just before the summer, Prime Minister Solberg replied to the interpellation that she agreed that full employment is an overall goal for the country. She also agreed that if we are to achieve that, all governments must have full employment as their primary objective. But what we now see with the state budget is – as the representative Berg-Hansen was just about to do – cut the marine value added programme, cut travel bets, cut the forest value added programme, cut innovation in Norway, and not least the famous proposal to increase the VAT limit on online commerce. It was an action that was estimated to cost NOK 180 000, i.e. a cost to destroy Norwegian jobs for the benefit of non-residents. The government has once again refused to comply with the clear desire of the social partners, employers and employees to regain the possibility of retaining permanent employees instead of cancelling them, and this at a time when unemployment is increasing. In the same way as when the government set down the Productivity Commission, or when they proposed to change the Working Environment Act, they are not in dialogue with the social partners but in conflict with the social partners. However, not only in terms of permitting legislation, the government proposes a reduction in working life, at a time when unemployment seems to increase. They further weaken the number of action places in their original budget, even though there will be more available. If work for everyone is the most important thing, the government does not take the important matter seriously. At the end of the budget process, the issue of the plastic bag charge came up, almost in an unreal way: the fee that was supposed to ensure that we were all involved, every time we went to the store, and we split a little bit, half a dollar for each bag, to make sure that the government was given the tax bill to the richest. We would be allowed to be on the split layer all of us. But the special thing about that matter is that we have got the impression that there is really no one for it, because after the budget agreement we saw a dispute about who was really responsible for the plastic bag charge. No one wanted to take responsibility. It is further confirmed here today, because today we are going to vote on the draft budget of the Christian People's Party and of the Left before the adoption of an agreement between them and the two government parties. So it's clear that yes, there's a majority behind the deal, but parts of the majority are very far behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3268	The backside of this budget has been somewhat alarmed by the labour market at a particular oil price. We have had relatively good cuts in oil companies, in investments and maintenance plans, which over time have led to some uncertainty in the labour market. In spite of this, the labour market situation is quite stable, and this government has focused on strengthening both the labour line and the creation of growth, those who create jobs in Norway. It has helped us to have a budget that follows up the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the election campaign said that they would do something, namely to strengthen the jobs and private ownership in Norway to ensure that more companies have the opportunity to hire more when it's running out. We have done that, first by removing the inheritance tax last year, and now by continuing to reduce the strange wealth tax. And when we do important tasks today to prepare Norway for the future, the school budget is one of the major winners in the state budget, in line with what Right went to elections on – and just to equip Norway for the future. In addition to facilitating business, it is also important to facilitate working life and to avoid stimulating social security. We're increasing the minimum deduction quite significantly, and we're increasing the free-card limit a lot. In addition, we are significantly increasing the entry point for top taxes, first in the government's proposal and then in the proposal we have together with the Christian People's Party and the Left. This helps to increase the incentives to work, in view of the wide range of activities for those who do not enter the labour market. One thing is a lack of offer, something else is in fact that many of them are waiting for treatment in a hospital, and many of them are waiting for treatment in a drug institution. This government and health minister Bent Höie have made a major contribution to reducing health cows, so that people can return to their everyday lives. Not least, those who are addicted to alcohol today, who have been in red-green cows for eight years, now get faster the help they need – we combine alcohol with psychiatry and health to help those people who actually need help from the state. In addition, the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left have set out 69,900 action sites distributed throughout the mountains. It's to overcome the uncertainty in the world of work. We will have a good dialogue with Nav on this, and the Stortinget will assume that the Minister of Labour and Nav is so in touch that the action sites are used for 2015, if they are used, there will be significantly more than those used in 2014, thus strengthening the number of action sites for 2015. I am from a region – the Haugesund region – which is very marked by the offshore industry and the oil and service industries. It is quite obvious that we need to ensure that Nav, who is responsible for taking action when problems arise in the labour market, has a particular eye on those regions that are hardest hit. In addition to strengthening the social security network and combining it with a discretionary use of the working line as a principle, we have identified a number of smaller measures to bring people with disabilities into the labour market. We strengthen a number of arrangements there, including: we introduce voice recognition programmes in Norwegian, and several function assistants are to enter the workplace. We're getting a pretty good budget. I have to say that I am satisfied with the balance between a social security network and the working line, and not least we get a budget that solves important tasks today, but also equips Norway for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3285	Norway is facing a more demanding economic, social and political situation, not least as a result of developments in the European Union. The European Union is based on an economic union, not a political union. It is based on a euro without a Ministry of Finance. A euro without a Ministry of Finance is something that the Ministry of Finance’s ministry strongly rejects from the Council when that debate was strongest in Norway and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs went out forcefully in their praise of the European Union. However, it became a euro without a Ministry of Finance. Over time, it can't be lasting. The European Union is increasingly moving into a firm and critical situation: what is the result of social and political unrest? Norway is an economically different country, which, from the United Nations, for example, is almost unreal. There is little reason to believe that the different economic countries can continue at the current level. Therefore, very strong political leadership is required in order for us to deal with the criminal communities that are coming, so that we can ensure not least the weakest groups in Norway. Norway faces several demanding challenges at the same time. We are facing a challenge related to the European Union's crisis, economic, social and political. We are facing the man-made climate change, which must lead to major re-priorities in our business life. We are facing a falling oil price, which will greatly affect Norway's export income. And we're facing a brutalization of Norwegian working life, which makes more and more professionals feel unsafe. The prime point of the Prime Minister was not the reduction in the wealth tax that the government has really prioritised, but the statement on strengthening the green knowledge-based industries. I'll follow up on the green, knowledge-based industries. It is a fact that there is better scientific evidence that climate change is man-made than that cigarette smoking is health-threatening. The content of anthropogenic climate change is the use of fossil black carbon, and it is our use of land, which reduces the amount of carbon in and on the land. This means that Norway, as the world's richest country of any size, must make it profitable for business to reduce the use of black carbon and increase the use of green carbon, i.e. photosynthesis carbon, in sea and on land. Today, the profitability of industries producing and processing green carbon is historically low, relatively low. There is far too little progress in the Norwegian debate that what is future has a historically relatively low economy, while what is history still has a high economy. This must be a paradox for more than the centre part, if we think about it. It is largely about increasing the profitability of renewable industries. Young people must make good money in their efforts in the renewable industries. Understanding the biology and processing of biological products that can replace black carbon, oil and gas requires comprehensive and extensive knowledge, both in ecology and in new technologies. When developing new economic instruments, we first have to ask the question: What do we want with Norway? Then we have to do something that's powerful, like it was done with shipping. We have to do something that is powerful, and we have to correct the market forces, so that there is profitability in the future industries. It requires the correction of market forces. The current representative Solberg agreed in the debate several years ago in principle that one could use the CO2 tax to tax it one should have less of, and subsidize it one should have more of, so that one thus corrected it. It is absolutely crucial to have such a debate on business and profitability if we are to take the climate challenges seriously. Finally, what is happening in Norwegian working life today is a radical change away from Norwegian pay and working conditions for the many skilled workers. We need to have control of labour immigration – everything else becomes theory – if we are to ensure Norwegian pay and working conditions. These are two of the key issues related to climate and employment. It is important that we have a political leadership that dares to take hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3316	It's been interesting to hear today's debate, it's been a bit different than when we discussed the speech of the throne. Then I stood here on this platform and said that the Workers' Party shared the government's problem description, because then the government talked about better welfare societies for everyone, a strengthened social security network, a better climate and secure jobs. In the state budget, history became a different one. Better well-being communities were being strangled by the local economy, social security networks were being cut off in the child supplement, a better climate was being turned into a gray budget slaughtered by the environmental movement, and safe jobs were being taxed to the richest. The budget does not follow up on the challenges you talked about in the throne. When the state budget was presented, many in the West were disappointed. As the government parties have also mentioned from this pulpit today – 7000 jobs are at risk. So what does the government do in the budget? In the throne the government would secure jobs. This was only rhetoric. «Humans, not billions» became people with billions. Because also here is cut in the wealth tax the government's only answer. Most people get some hundreds more copies per year, while 27 pst. the tax cuts go to the 0,1 pst. richest in the country. This should miraculously lead to 7 000 Westerners getting a job. I don't believe in such miracles. Miracles may work when you're going to get a budgetary settlement with the Christian People's Party, but it doesn't create jobs. Then a concrete action is needed, and it seems that everyone outside the government has understood the seriousness. The NHO requires action, the LO requires action, we in the opposition propose action. The government will wait and see, just wait a little longer. Hand-held power has become waiting power. That's why I hope the representatives from the government parties will join us now, and perhaps especially Nordby Lunde. For the opposition can be used for something: one can be inspired by our good, concrete proposals, and not least follow suit. The Labour Party has submitted a budget for safe jobs. Lack of respect for professional work means that fewer people apply to professional parts of the world of work. Large supply of cheap, non-resident labour means that employers are more likely to employ unskilled workers. We need a targeted effort to build the country further. For example, the working party will: non-discrimination between the professions and the preparatory studies. We raise the apprentice's grant to the same level as the cost of a place in special studies. We also want a bet, so that two thousand people who work as a skilled worker now will receive a letter every year. We want 3,000 more sites of action, and we are launching a fourth action plan on social dumping. And not least the permitting code: the government doubled the company's costs with the permit. Nav consultant Gustav Swane in Rogaland now sees the consequences of this policy. He now sees similarities with the financial crisis. The difference is that there are now more redundancies than lay-offs. Listen to the figures: in Rogaland in September there were 2,326 redundancies and only 181 lay-offs, i.e. almost 13 times as many lay-offs as lay-offs. The Labour Party is at the forefront, and our budget strengthens the legislation on permitting. We're not going to surrender until the government comes after. The Prime Minister said in his speech that she was afraid of a relapse – I wonder if she has read her own budget. For this budget, there is a relapse — a relapse to old-fashioned right-wing policy with no dynamic effect. There's more to those who have the most, and there'll be bigger differences. So we're far from what you've promised the voters. Therefore, I am glad that the opposition shows that a different direction is possible. I think the voters will notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3331	It's about the opportunities to meet tomorrow's challenges, said the representative Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, and I think that was very nice said and very correct. It's about rusting Norway, about simplifying, about renewing and about improving. And then one must first have some kind of understanding of what our challenge is in Norway. In the previous eight years, the opposition has said that our challenge is: we have a high consumption. We use – within the responsible framework, but nevertheless – much of our oil wealth, what belongs to the generations of the future, but we spend it on consumption and not on investment. So in some of the best years in which Norway has stood, we risk spending too much money on current consumption and too little on strengthening the foundations of society, which gives us the opportunity to preserve all of the parts of Norway that we appreciate for the future. If we're going to rust Norway for the future, I think we can learn a little bit from what you did earlier. When the modern industrial venture in Norway took shape, for example: in Porsground, where I come from, or on Notodden and Rjukan in Telemark, there were three things you needed to tame the footfalls in order to gain power and to lay the foundation for modern Norway: the first was innovation. Innovation was needed, such as: Birkeland, who invented a new method of fertiliser production. Then you needed labour. They got it from the countryside. You needed skilled labour, and you got it. And then you needed capital – money, just to take the big investments. That was the basis for and very briefly told the recipe on the Norwegian industrial venture. I'm not going to say that we're doing the exact same thing today. But there are some of the same things that are left in the government's draft budget. When we focus on research, development and knowledge, when we've turned a trend in which research and development in almost all budgets were prioritised, to a development where research, development and knowledge are prioritised, it's precisely because we need to invest in the future. Let me just take a short visit to the numbers, because they say a little bit, even if money isn't everything, it's also about how to use them. But in the two budgets presented by the government of Solberg, and provided by the majority parties, at the latest today, the real growth in research and development has been up to 5 pst. To take a parallel, the growth in research and development in 2011 was minus 0.5 pst. In 2012 it was 0.9 pst. In 2013, it began to approach choices, and then it crept up to 2.4 pst. What's this about? Well, it's about basic research and investing in research and ideas that enable us to solve the climate crisis, find a solution to the cancer problem, and take advantage of the opportunities that lie in our oceans. So it's about connecting to the next term, the exploitation and commercialization of that research. This is done through both the knowledge budget and the food budget, through, for example: The user-driven innovation arena, which is a programme that very few people have really heard about, but which means a lot to bring about future jobs in Norway. So we also have to do it through the last one, that's to have money that can be invested. If we're going to invest in future jobs, it's stupid to have high taxes on jobs, on entrepreneurs, on risk capital. So it's an advantage to have innovation, to have the opportunity to exploit it and to have capital. The remarkable thing about the previous years was that the tax went up every year, but still it was not possible to focus on research, development and knowledge – what is important for the future. Together with the clear reinforcement and bet of the majority parties at an early start in the kindergarten, with several kindergartens, with a record high quality bet, held by the government, with an early school effort, combined with the government’s and majority parties’ great commitment to a teacher’s level, so that all children will meet, for example, for example. a mathematical cleric with immersion, combined with the majority stakes on increased apprenticeship grants, which the government had made in 2014, and which the majority parties now commit in 2015, is a budget for future growth in Norway and a budget for innovation, jobs and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3350	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3353	In a letter to the Stortinget, Røe Isaksen writes that the total increase in initial training in government proposals is 98 million. kr. This means that if one subtracts the increase from continuing education for teachers of 142 million. This is a real cut in the other school budget, which is supported by a unanimous increase. The budget proposal had no other school effort, nothing that gives teachers more time with the student, greater teacher's density or better follow-up of the individual student. At the same time, the government could afford huge tax cuts for the richest in Norway, almost a hundred times more than for school. My question is: how can Røe Isaksen defend a budget that represents a real decline in the school budget outside continuing education, and how can he then become the loser in the government's budgetary work?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3361	It's amazing to hear some of the questions and claims from the Workers' Party. This knowledge budget has a historical commitment to continuing education, a historical commitment to research and development, a battle effort at universities and colleges, and the majority parties with the Christian People's Party and the Left have made it even stronger and even better – yes, so much stronger and so much better that I saw the Workers' Party, when they delivered the financial position, had to come crawling after the majority parties in several areas to keep up with it. Then I think it's a strange reasoning when you count the school budgets except for the most important ones in the school, namely the teachers. It's really funny to say real growth in the school budget except for 1 billion. kr in investments in Norwegian teachers. I saw the Workers' Party's alternative budget. What was there at school was 107 million. kr for an undefined bet on a reading, math and writing guarantee, which had been done little to fulfill, and which in turn presupposes that you have good, committed teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3368	I think the knowledge budget has become very good. I'm glad that in the budget agreement, the Christian People's Party has had an impact on early school efforts by increasing teacher's density at the lowest class steps. With more time for each student, it makes it easier for the teacher to adapt the teaching. Fewer children will fall off the load and fewer will need special education later in school. This is an important effort for the Christian People's Party, for today too many children do not have the benefit of ordinary teaching. These children are getting help too late. The council has previously assured Stortinget that this is something he is concerned about. What I want to ask is: is there anything in the budget the Council of State will point to, which is a contribution to solving this problem, in addition to the efforts of the Christian People's Party, or is this something that we have in favour of from the Council of State for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3375	Let me first say that the positions of increased teacher density that are in now, I think can be used in a good way. It was agreed by the majority parties. I think you're going to use them in a targeted way to think about early efforts for the youngest children. Let me answer with a little anecdote: I was at the University of Southern Trøndelag a couple of weeks ago. It is one of Norway's leading teacher training courses. They told us how important it is that the children’s numeration, the basis for it, is laid in the very first years of school. That's the sense of numbers you bring with you for the rest of your schooling and the rest of your life. In other words, teacher competence is that, for example, all math teachers have depression in mathematics, not just something important for high school, high school or middle school. It is also most relevant to the very least children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3382	I want to thank the Council of State for an avid, committed post. The Council of State mentioned three things that are important to equip Norway to meet the challenges: innovation, labour and capital. Innovation I agree is super important, and capital is also important to get to it. There was one thing the council didn't mention, and that was labour. We have heard that both the Council of State, the Prime Minister and the government in general have talked a lot about professionalism, so I was very excited when the government budget came, and turned up looking for the profession. What I found was eight million. kr to increase the skills of vocational teachers – it is good, at least, seams if we want more money for it – and so we saw that the apprenticeship grant increased. The exchange model, more flexibility, etc., was not a word about it. I was really disappointed, sail if I can criticize you afterwards. So I wonder if the Council of State can answer why the government is not interested in investing in the practical subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3389	I had babysitting on Sunday, so I obviously had a need to talk a little loud, there was so much trouble there. So I mentioned the labour force as item no. 3, the representative can look at my handwritten script afterwards. So it's absolutely right, and I'm glad that the majority of the parties still have the increase in the apprentice grant. There was a slight increase in 2009, but it had remained almost still for all the years before, and has remained still all the years after. It's good that it came. In the case of the exchange model in concrete terms, there is money within it in the budget. We are also spending more money this year – what to call it – that professionals can come out and gain experience in the workplace. Maybe they've been in school for many years and need to see how things have evolved in the workplace. There is also money for e.g. the letter-of-practice system. Some of the challenges have been that not all states are equally good at using these grants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3396	I just want to say first that there's nothing called "historical bet," either it's a historically big bet or it's a historically small bet, and both of them are taking quite a bit on top of themselves. Even more research shows that learning density is important for learning outcomes. A comprehensive, recently published report from the National Education Policy Center in the United States concludes that ‘class size matters, and it matters a lot’. The government has recently agreed to a number of teachers through the conciliation. In the past, the Minister of Knowledge has said that the bet from the red-green with more students in high school should be passed on. It's a whole turnaround, as I see it. Does this mean that Right has turned around and agrees with SV in increasing learning density has an impact on learning outcomes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3403	The right and SV have also agreed before. For example, SV and the then Bondevik II government were together to remove the rules for how large a class should be, so that you would no longer have that norm, because it was viewed – rightly, I think – as unnecessarily restrictive and misdirected the resources in the school. I've always said that we need more teachers. What I've been skeptical about, and I'm opposed to, is that you have to have a central norm from Oslo for how many teachers you're going to have on a particular year. I can mention at least two reasons for that. One is that this will lead to all investment coming only in the big cities. The second is that it may happen that you, for example, There is a need to strengthen a high minority Oslo school, more than you need to strengthen a school in another part of the city, where perhaps the resource base is better initially. But I am too many teachers, and the trial system that SV got through after seven years in government, we have now retained, but as I said, it was a trial scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3413	The government's presentation of next year's government budget has engaged people all over the country. The taste of bias did not give rise to appetite. Where the big tax cuts were going to come, most people were fairly quickly cleared up by the fact that those who had average wages got about. 2–3 kroner in tax bills a day, which were quickly eaten by the plastic bag costs of the food purchases. The distribution profile was that they were going to get large tax credits with large assets, and they were going to spend less time with children. So until the issue of wealth tax laws is growth-promoting. There is currently no empirical answer to the fact that taxes on wealth are growth-promoting. If the growth promotion is to focus on the tax debate, I think we need to look at the whole tax system in the context. It is therefore strange that the government has now done so much tax cuts in the state budget rather than waiting for the Scheel Committee, followed by a broad tax debate here in the Chamber. There will be errors when some groups, and in this context the richest in Norway, receive considerable tax relief without considering whether other changes in the tax system can generate more growth and a more equitable distribution profile that can benefit everyone. Here the government chooses to cut before the knowledge you have asked for comes on the table. The oil price decreases, revenue decreases, and the government goes in with suction to collect more oil revenue to meet its priorities. The petroleum sector is at a difficult time and the supply industry in Hordaland and Rogaland is so much the hardest hit. But are the jobs being protected that are at risk? Are measures taken to prevent thousands of redundancies in the supplier industry? No, there is no evidence that the government is concerned with preventing competence from disappearing from the industry, and that people's working days are at stake and create uncertainty in many homes. The home state of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry is one of the states that now face the main challenges of dismissal. The repeater is that with today's permitting legislation, employees are said to be cancelled rather than to be permitted. It's a fairly traditional business-neutral stance the government has. In the long term too, the decline in activity and the demand from the petroleum industry will require conversion capacity in Norwegian industry. The Labour Party wishes to make a special effort to increase growth and employment in industries that have good prospects for success in meeting international competition. This requires clear priorities, which are in contrast to the government’s non-nutritional line. The working party believes it is important to invest in industries that have natural advantages and that have the prerequisites for success in the future. We believe that energy, environmental technology, maritime industry, the marine sector and travel life are good examples of this. In addition, it is important to focus on research and development and the bioeconomy in order to achieve the objective of self-sufficiency in the future, but also in view of the possibility of building on new industries that can contribute to important future job revenues. We need to invest in agriculture, forests, fish and land-based industries in general, which can provide important growth across the country. That is why we are putting investment in both agriculture and fish into our alternative budget. We want to help realise the value creation potential of the marine food industry, and that marine food companies translate market knowledge into increased profitability, i.e. knowledge-based measures. The government has made several changes in business that they have taken out on the simplification card but have not been knowledge-based. These include changes in the VAT ceiling, structural measures in the fisheries sector and cuts in the agricultural aid scheme. We also hear from many entrepreneurs that there is a need for early stage capital in the critical period from business ideas to commercial operations, by the business world called the ‘valley of death’. We've taken this seriously, and added up to a regional accelerator program. The scheme involves matching private investor capital with the allocation of 250 million. kr will trigger a total of 500 million. kr in the early phase. We want to strengthen the entrepreneurial environment throughout the country, and the programme is to be managed close to where the ideas and environments actually are. The Labour Party believes that investing in an active industrial policy with growth across the country will provide far more new jobs and secure jobs than the government’s business-neutral line and absent district profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3436	For those who have joined the media in recent times, it is clear that it is necessary for Norway to equip itself for the future, and the existing budget is a shift in the pace of the focus on value creation. The overall picture of the budget is focus on value creation. We're going to create before we divide. We're betting on transportation. There is something all the businesses around the country are asking for. We stimulate ownership, private, diverse ownership to raise capital for, among other things. the efforts made by the previous speaker. We're betting on knowledge. As the Prime Minister so aptly has said, it is our future oil. We have a research and innovation effort that is very business-oriented, and no later than today I received an e-mail from the headmaster of the University of Oslo about how good it is, by betting on the BIA, the tax FUNN, we are betting on the institution grant scheme through Innovation Norway, and in the agreement we have also received seed capital. Here are many things that business has wanted for many years, and as there have been clear signs that there have been great shortages for many years. That's very good in the budget. I register that Gahr Støre among others I had to say that we agree on this. Yeah, well, we were the ones who were able to prioritize it. Here, the Workers' Party has been in government for eight years without being able to prioritize it. Now they live very high on the fact that our government has actually managed to prioritise, so that you have made room for both those bets and tax reliefs, and of course you have a lot of money to distribute. So Gahr Støre – and a number of other speakers have also been involved – said that there was a particular need to invest in certain industries, and you had to get away from the business-neutral investment. Well, first of all, I think you should be honest and say what you shouldn't bet on. I don't think it's that easy. I've tried to ask, there's no one who dares to say anything. I also do not know whether agriculture was part of what was in the last period, but in that case the tracks from the Workers' Party's active policies should frighten. If we look at agriculture, the agricultural area was reduced by 5 pst. The proportion of land rented increased from 38 pst. to 43 pst. The degree of self-sufficiency went down from 52 pst. to 48 pst. Milk production was reduced by 37 p.p. and 18 000 year-olds disappeared in agriculture. Now the arrows are actually turning. After one year of civil government, there is a willingness to invest, there are several who are applying for agricultural training, and there are many of the arrows that seem to point in the right direction. If you also include forests, which Dag Terje Andersen and others have been involved in, the forest industry in Norway was actually halved. The three processing industries in Norway were halved by the red-green active industrial policies. We went from being a net importer to becoming a net exporter of the commodity timber. Exports of timber do not give much value. Now the budget agreement with biodiesel comes, and we're talking again about investments in Norwegian wood processing. The package of cuts that Dag Terje Andersen brought out was a summer package, to put it in dialect, that means a bad package, because in relation to our investment in transport and on forest roads, it is exactly what the industry has been asking for for for years to improve its competitiveness. So thank me for the active industrial policy of the Workers' Party, it should be quite scary for all industries to see the results of their efforts during the previous period. It's a fact that to be competitive, we need to have a higher productivity than the rest of the world around us. It is the only thing that can really help Norway to stay at the top of the world in terms of welfare. Then we have to be more efficient, we have to be smarter, we have to be more innovative than our competitors – it doesn't just help to run faster – and we do that by renewing, improving and simplifying. That way we create before we distribute, and I think maybe someone in today's opposition should learn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3447	I want Norway to be a country with small differences and great opportunities. I believe that the budget of the Labour Party reflects this ambition. We're going to facilitate growth across the country. We need to invest in climate, knowledge and health. That's why we say no to big tax cuts -- we want to spend money wisely for the best for the many. The working party will develop a modern and forward-looking transport system that will make traffic development simpler, faster and safer, with good communications and transport opportunities across the country. Roads, railways, ports and airports help to bind the country together, are essential for the development of business and housing and are involved in the construction of the country. Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. It's about the future of our children and grandchildren, as the financier spokeswoman Marianne Marthinsen said earlier today. We must take that responsibility and develop Norway and the world in the right direction. The transport sector accounts for a third of the total Norwegian climate emissions. Measures in the transport sector will have a major impact on the reduction of emissions. Therefore, we need to develop and expand the transport system so that the environmental effects are limited. The urban areas are growing, and there are more of us living there. Therefore, the Workers' Party proposes a significant strengthening of the investment in rail and public transport, in addition to the government's proposals, precisely to meet these challenges. The government cuts in the appropriations related to bicycles, it does not grant enough for the maintenance of the railway, it does not grant enough for the reward scheme for public transport or for the urban environment agreements, and it has cut 100 million. kr to the broadband bet, which will lead to districts not being able to participate in the digital everyday life that most of us take for granted. Nor does it generate growth for business in the districts. These are government proposals that go in the opposite direction to the climate agreement, and there are proposals that will not meet the population and climate challenges of the big cities. The working party is concerned that road freight is increasing, as it represents both a serious climate problem and a road safety problem. It is worrying that we are not more successful in transferring goods from road to sea and track, which is a political objective for the majority in this Chamber. The Stoltenberg Government developed a short-haul shipping strategy in connection with the NTP in 2013. The Labour Party asks the government to come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals on how to follow up the short sea shipping strategy, and with a status for transferring more goods from road to sea, because we have to achieve that goal, whether we are going to achieve our climate goals. The Christian People's Party and the Left have curtailed something, as the representative Marianne Marthinsens said earlier today, in terms of collective and track. I'm very happy about that. But we're recording that the majority is now cutting 245 million. kr for renewal or maintenance on the road, in which we in what is likely to become the minority, do not cut. They also propose to reduce road project E16 over Philly, which means that sub-projects that are not started up as planned in 2015. We have registered that the government at the overall level follows up the NTP that the government Stoltenberg presented. We are pleased with that, because that is what our policy is. But we note that the government does not follow its own promises in the transport sector. I am a little surprised that someone, and especially the Minister of Transport, is surprised that we in the Labour Party are following up our own policies. We are responsible in position and in opposition. These are the choices that politicians are making today, on which we are going to measure in the future. Then it's important to make the right choices. We in the Workers' Party will continue to prioritise collective and track, as we did in the Red-Green Government, and therefore we are increasing the appropriations for railway maintenance, for railway investments, for climate and collective measures in the big cities and for bicycles. We've kept what we promised in position, unlike the government parties, where the right in opposition promised 200 billion. kr more than us annually, and the Progress Party promised 45 billion. kr more annually. In the story of who has done what in opposition, I think the numbers speak for themselves. So I want to tell the representative Helge Place that we're going to be involved and think about new things, we're going to be better organized, we're going to wait and see what's going to happen. In terms of shorter planning times and coordinated objections, we've been for it all along, and it's also in our NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3469	Through opposition time, election campaign and the last years' performances both inside and outside this hall, the government parties Right and Advance Party have stretched the bow high, also in the health and care area. However, there must be a link between what you think healthcare should provide and what you are willing to pay when you have to give priority. Therefore, I believe that there is reason to say that the health investment in the state budget is weak, not because the government does not have money – Norway has a lot of money, the government has a record budget and high oil spending – but because the government prioritises the money incorrectly. To all intents and purposes, there are many good bets and individual proposals in the budget that receive the full support of the Workers' Party. However, the main priorities of the budget – both before and after the conciliation here in the United Kingdom – are still tax cuts to the richest of the country. I think it's wasted on society's resources to spend billions on tax cuts most of us barely notice. The government is taking Norway in the wrong direction when the richest 1 p.m. of the population of Norway in the government's draft budget receives as much tax cuts as the growth of hospitals combined. We could use them so much more correctly for more important purposes. There are two deficiencies in the health effort. One goes to the municipal complex, which is too weak, and the other is the hospital budget, which is correspondingly weak. The most important public health work is about what happens before people get sick, where people live their lives: in kindergarten, in school and where people live. This is why we in the Labour Party believe that it is very important to bet on prevention, for example. by strengthening the free income of municipalities by 2.3 billion. Compared to the government's proposal. It provides room for action on the prevention and development of safe and good municipal health and care services for all. We know that health and health habits that are established early in life have a big impact on how things work with you for the rest of your life. Therefore, the earmarked school health service is part of the Workers' Party's alternative scheme. In addition, as a prevention measure in the name of public health, we propose to reintroduce the system of fruit and vegetables in high school and start introducing one hour of physical activity in school. In many ways, the government has had two chances this autumn, both before the budget negotiations in Stortinget and after. For hospitals, the result is the same. The Ministry of Health's budget for Norwegian hospitals is too small, based on both the promises of the election campaign and the needs of the sector. Why? Let me do three short examples: Item No 1: The hospital budget is initially weak, actually 1 billion. kr lower than the Right himself promised in the election campaign. They were about on track last autumn – it was a good setup, which received the Workers' Party's support. Now the right is not in the path anymore. As I said, the Health Minister will deliver over a billion dollars. kr less for hospitals than he promised in the election campaign. Item No 2: The government proposes to include new tasks in the hospital framework without financial compensation to hospitals. Tasks that previously had their own money in addition to the hospital framework are now to be financed within the hospital framework. If the activity is to be maintained – and I hope we agree – these changes will in reality be cut into the rest of the hospital framework. Item No 3: The budget agreement – all the honors of the Christian People's Party and the Left for contributing to rectifying several of the unsocial proposals to the government – and this red tape reform to the government has made the situation of hospitals worse by including them with 0.1pst. which the hospitals must also cover, without this being compensated. The Labour Party believes that it is wrong to spend so much money on tax cuts and not close to fulfilling what was promised in the election campaign to perhaps the most important welfare sector in Norway, namely hospitals and municipalities. So we're adding closer to 1.2 billion. kr more on the table to strengthen hospitals next year. We exempt hospitals from these efficiencies and further cut from the conciliation. The money will go to the hospital quality package, evening-open outpatient clinics and pilot projects to reduce waiting times, rushes and psychiatry, proton therapy in cancer treatment, several turnaround doctors – I could mention many other proposals. This is how we invest for the best of our country for the future, by investing in community and welfare, by keeping what we promise and donating enough money to ensure that the expectations we have for the country's health workers are actually in line with what we promised on TV before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3490	The Norwegian media industry is experiencing something close to a revolution. We always like to say that now it's going fast, but now it's going really fast. Technological development not only makes the media houses struggling to know what to do next month, not to mention next year, but also makes us politicians behind with our media policies and arrangements. For regardless of the ability, will and the executive power of the various media houses in terms of conversion, we sadly rely on legislators. The ink in a government budget is barely dry enough before new challenges come to light. The Government, the Christian People's Party and the Left are united on the support arrangements for the press in the 2015 budget. The industry itself has said that these schemes are essential for their success in their conversion in a turbulent time. There is a cross-press that many media houses experience when the two traditionally most important income streams dry in. Firstly, fewer subscriptions to a newspaper are still made. We are still many who like to slip to the mailbox one Saturday morning to get the paper for the morning coffee. But we who like it are a dying race. The paper newspapers are disappearing, and it's fast. Secondly, advertisers move their money to new media and other actors. A few years ago, it was difficult to imagine that the local plumber would choose to use the advertising money on Google instead of in the local paper paper newspaper. All support schemes and good intentions in spite of this: after all the 19 years we have had online newspapers in Norway, it is still the case that the industry has largely not found adequate solutions for digital publishing that ensure the necessary earnings from subscribers and advertisers. The government has said that in the long term it wants to reverse and reduce the support for the press, because we have so far not seen that preserving models contribute to innovation. It is therefore an expectation from the Right that the industry is now showing that today’s level of support really encourages innovation and transition to digital media. However, some important principles are also gradually put in place, both in terms of direct and indirect press support, i.e. production aid and VAT. There is a consensus that media should be more non-discriminatory, independent of the distribution platform, and that is a step in the right direction. There is still work to be done, both on agreeing on the VAT rate and on how to limit the scheme. However, low VAT should not be a principle of supporting an industry in economic crisis; there must be political reasons for introducing a level, low VAT. The delimitation of the VAT system as well as the size and mechanism of the production grant will continue to be the subject of debate in the future. That's what it has to be, because today's solutions hardly solve the challenges of an industry in such a rapid change. From a diversity point of view, it is also interesting to note that one media house receives one third of the direct support — in other contexts, such a dominant alarm clock is used to germinate. The variety in the media is also interesting to discuss in view of the pressure we experience from foreign content providers and media houses. That's why the most interesting media debate in the next six months will be about the NRK. A wholesale notification of the NRC has been notified and it shall address the content, distribution, financing and ownership of the NRC. NRK is our largest media house, and it's our most important media house. It's funded by you and me through license. The way in which the robust economy of the NRK and the possibilities and muscles it provides is uncertain. More than every five journalists and editors in Norway are working today in the NRC. The most frequently set and heard programmes are sent in one or more NRK channels, and the NRK is a significant player also on networks and other platforms. It is important that the NRK maintains its right to exist through quality and the experience they provide to the licensee. At the same time, it is equally important that they do not use their robust position to weaken other players in a struggling market. In the policy area of the media industry, the very exciting times we meet are. We must create a policy that is adapted to time, a modern media policy that is not old by adopting it, which not only meets today's challenges, but also so important that it is designed so far that it also embraces the future. The media policy has been governed for many years by the fact that we have looked in the rearview mirror. Now we have to look at the way forward instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3516	Creating a safe society is a shared responsibility. It starts in the municipalities, where people live, go to school and get care and care when needed. Many municipal politicians are striving to get the money for 2015 to go to. Kindergartens are getting more expensive, they're less public health work, and municipalities are failing their incomes. Kristiansand, who I live in, gets about 30 million. kr more with the layout of the Working Party. Meetings include: Child protection professionals employed in the protection of children. In the evening post on November 2nd, they say: ‘Decisions will always be best if we have come to them together.’ They know that being listened to is a good condition for a good life. Therefore, there is a need for adequate and well-qualified child-restraint workers. Prevention is about creating great opportunities and making small differences. It is about translating legal certainty, redistribution and inclusion into practical policies: a society with work for all, where children and young people complete school, where families and children receive early help an equal society, where the value is linked to being – not who you are, what you have or have done a safe society, where the community bears the individual, and where the individual bears the community; To distribute 95-99 pst. by the population in favour of 1-5 pst. by the richest are not building together. The Minister of Justice and the Government emphasise the budget of justice as one of the winners. Yes, the Labour Party believes that some of the budget was good. Much improved after negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The new way in which the government budgets are largely cut makes it difficult to compare with the previous year. Now almost a unified judicial field is more concerned about these cuts than they are excited about the addition they got. The Minister of Justice talks about important matters, but some things he talks little about, such as: the content of criminal justice. Until October, the Norwegian Minister of Justice had barely talked about content. He assured the delegates that he was concerned about the content. But despite this, the number of employees does not increase by more than what barely covers the 41 new places the government establishes by further duplication. The cover in prison is now up to 100 pst. Employees point to challenges with reduced safety and rehabilitation. The Labour Party strengthens the criminal justice budget by 30 million. kr more than the government – to around 43 new posts earmarked for children’s contacts. Another area where the Minister of Justice is criticized for being silent is violence against children. This government has not passed on concrete funds to children's homes as the previous government did. The working party will continue to bet and the ear tags will be 100 million. kr within the framework of the police districts. Part of the justice sector must be called a waiting room — at least for a long time. Long queue or wait is the answer when the Labour Party and others call for action – whether it is police reform or emergency services, to mention something. The capacity challenges in prisons are becoming worse. The trade power reaches planning and more investigations, and while waiting, the minister asks others to solve Norway’s problems: first Sweden, then the Netherlands. The Labour Party has visited the police districts and prisons. Employees are impatient, and so are we. We want a police reform that builds up under the tasks, a reform dedicated to content, culture and management, cooperation and efficient exploitation of pooling resources – a reform that liberates police force. We want a new prison quickly, a content in all prisons and good rehabilitation. It gives the people greater security and plenty of place to live, and fewer commit crime. There's a lot in the Minister of Justice's waiting room, but the joy is that there's some progress. We now know that the police reform will come over New Year, and the capacity plan will come as early as December. Then we also expect them to be thoroughly worked through. Because the Labour Party wants better police, more security and better crime prevention, we can promise that we will be constructive when these matters come to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3557	The government has almost begged for cultural policy as the champions, and it has done well. It started with a new talk about arm's length distance and freedom. It continued with a throne speech where neither culture, sport nor equality were mentioned, and saw a government budget so weak that it immediately smelled uprisings among otherwise friendly partners and in its own party ranks. In cultural policy, the government promised a new direction. It is a question of new language, of so-called arm's length distance and freedom, but in a more practical and tangible sense, of poorer economies for art and culture, non-governmental organisations, media and sport. No areas are protected from the budget's main effort – tax cuts to the richest. And in order to really present their budget profile, the cultural spaserstock was removed, along with the Cultural Cards for Youth. The budget is a recipe full of ingredients that take Norway in the wrong direction. It builds up unorthodox values, such as increasing differences between peoples, weakening the community's ability to build wealth through municipalities and poorer conditions for voluntary activities in urban and rural areas – what really makes us hold together as a society, what brings people together and provides quality of life and integration. In Organisation Norway, the budget is met with headshake and concern and partly anger because the government parties to those degrees have lowered the aspirations of society and the community. Uncertainty and unforeseeability have been created. It's the commitment of thousands of volunteer actors and organisations who, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have provided a slightly lighter course of action. They're to be honored for that. Support for sports facilities, increased VAT compensation, improved grant schemes and improved culture conditions has been given an important place in the draft budget of the Workers' Party for 2015. We're going back to the 1st track of cultural life, and on the way there, we've significantly increased our efforts in consultation with the actors. The cultural walking stick is of course included, and so is a 35 million grant. kr to a modernized form of Youth Culture Card. That's because we're choosing tax cuts, and then there's exactly room for such allocations. For the Workers' Party, it is important that culture reaches out to everyone, that we contribute to balancing inequalities also in the field of culture. We know that consumption of cultural services is increasing with closeness, and it is increasing with income. It is reduced similarly in those with the least. In the budget that has been presented, there is a belief in the market and private solutions in the cultural field as well. Yeah, it might look like it's Markets-Rights that have won over Culture-Rights. It has soon been a year and a half since the party leaders from the Right and the Progress Party said that they agreed on a significant priority of volunteering. That time it was a campaign. Now the party leaders have become Prime Minister and Minister of Finance respectively, and it has become political everyday life. The only thing that has become clearer about volunteering is that expectations have not been met. And even though the government statement deals with volunteering on about every other line, the policy is translated into cutbacks – cut to the Student Union, cut to voluntary organisations, cut to the VAT compensation scheme for sports facilities, cut to appropriations for the music equipment system, 4H is thrown out of their offices. Voluntary organisations, which rely on gambling funds, are concerned about the future when commercial operators are to collect and collect profits from the gambling market. This week the government has a week of volunteering. It shall be invited to meetings and declarations shall be signed. There must be some bismach organizations involved in that work, because behind all the words lies the memories of the state budget and the cuts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3574	The next year’s budget will make the road choices of government and cooperation parties visible, which will solve important tasks today and will equip Norway for years to come. The budget is giving greater priority to how we use public funds. More efforts are being made to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. It reinforces the working line. It has the power to realize the knowledge society. And it lays the groundwork for creating the new green jobs. This is social, it gives the next generation better opportunities, and it starts a necessary transformation for the future. We then need to facilitate the security of existing jobs, innovation and the establishment of new businesses. Then we must remove laws, rules and framework conditions that prevent this. The property tax is a special tax that drains Norwegian companies for capital while foreign-owned competitors escape. This weakens Norwegian private ownership and makes Norwegian jobs less competitive. The tax on wealth means that the effective rate of return on capital in Norway is very high for some types of capital and makes it less profitable to save and invest. Investment taxes have to be paid regardless of whether the enterprise is running in profit or in deficit and it reduces the ability of Norwegian enterprises to invest in innovation, development and new jobs. The reductions in the taxes on wealth are an improvement in the competitive conditions of Norwegian enterprises, and it facilitates new start-ups. It's a good investment. It is not waste, as the Labour Party claims in this debate. It creates security for those who want to create values and jobs based on a good idea and their own talent. At the same time, we live in a world that is uncertain. The security policy situation is deteriorating, and it also affects the security of our own country. The budget also makes an active approach visible to this. A significant strengthening of the police in the state budget is proposed next year. The budget will increase the security and freedom of people. That is why we are putting more emphasis on police and better preparedness. The bet will give 350 new police positions. This is an important part of the upkeep, so that it is possible to achieve the target of two officials per 1000 inhabitants in 2020. A strong neighbourhood police force is essential to create more security in society. Police need to be upgraded to meet the crime challenges of the future, and the prevention work needs to be intensified. The strengthening of the police is contributing to a more visible police force. Police districts must have the means to recruit the newly educated police high school students in the police department. In order to ensure efficiency and good progress in police investigations, it is important that there is strong professional leadership and a sufficient number of prosecutors. The budget provides, among other things: 50 new police lawyers, and it strengthens the higher prosecution authority. The fight against terrorism also applies in our country. The level of the threat has increased. The PST plays a crucial role in the preparedness to detect and prevent terrorism in Norway. The summer terror threat to the country is an example of the nation facing greater challenges than before in the case of terrorist activities. This is the background for the government proposing to increase the appropriations for the PST strongly. It is important that people convicted of crime start settlement as soon as possible. Sufficient capacity in criminal justice is therefore crucial. That is why it is allocated over 40 million. to increase prison capacity within existing prisons and to create a separate youth unit in the East. We inherited a long queue from the red-green ones. Further measures, including short-term measures, are needed to overcome this problem. Renting of detention centres in the Netherlands can be a solution. The agreement on next year's government budget continues and reinforces the agreement of the Nydalen agreement. All four parties have put their mark on the budget. It is a budget that solves important tasks today and that equips Norway for years to come. It's a budget that makes the country safer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3611	The government's budget proposal is the most obvious right-hand budget that some government has put forward in modern times in Norway. Why do I say that? Well, because there's a budget that's very clearly pointing towards the development of our social structure where the idea of equality is no longer going to be the guiding idea. It is put under pressure and will gradually be significantly weakened by such developments as the government commits to the budget. This is nothing new. Historically, the right-hand side of Norway has always meant that the community should not become too strong and that the material richest must feel better and better for everyone to get a little more. When it rains on the priest, it drips on the bell. Now they say – and they have said this from all sides throughout this debate and during the presentation of the budget – that if we are to cope with the developments that Norway will now face, we must do what they propose. They believe that the crucial medicine for tackling the challenge of the future for a modern country in Europe today is to challenge the community – those at the top of society will have more, and those at the bottom will pay. That's what the right hand side suggests. What is this? Yes, above all, of course, it's very immature, and it'll eventually hurt the whole community. The development of differences does not create dynamics and conversion. It creates stiffness and imbalance, and it damages what is essential for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, namely the creation of society's value. It is indisputable, for everyone who wants to see, that not only political argument, but also all knowledge of political science and economic theory, shows us that it is the societies that are stable, that have high taxes, that have good social conditions for the entire population, and that have strong communities in their culture, that are also the societies that provide the best return on capital. I honestly don't understand – and I'm not saying this to be rhetorical, here I am – why the right parties don't take it inwards. The Prime Minister told the Stortinget in his intervention in this debate earlier today that we must do this because of international developments. Yes, great forces have had to help us, so that international developments do not make us equal to countries with high unemployment, great differences and weak social institutions, precisely because the state is indebted, because the tax revenue is too low. I see that the Minister of Finance is still here: let us be saved for it, Minister of Finance. Let's be saved for a development in such a direction as we see in many other countries. There's no way to go. You can ask yourself, this rhetoric about the Economic Policy of the Workers' Party that the Advance Party and the Right agreed to throughout the electoral campaign, is based on the fact that we have fully stagnated. There's no future in us. Then I have to say, when are the right parties going to learn? When are they going to learn? Have they never intended to learn? Or do they simply don't care? Maybe that's the last one, because they're making such a proposal that they've now made? Because this isn't just about what we've been talking about. It is also about what the representative of Aasrud pointed to: the whole of cultural life. And I asked myself when I saw this budget presented: what are they doing? Do they really expose themselves to all this criticism on a voluntary basis? No, it's not like that. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has said this: of course, there will be trouble when you have to build down the Labour Party state. What she was wrong about, of course, was that she walked right in the wall – in conflict with the Norwegian people. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3626	Now I think the representative Kolberg has forgotten his memory note up here! It's always entertaining to listen to the representative Martin Kolberg. I will give him right on one point, namely that it is a budget with a clear profile. And it is a clear civic profile – a budget that prioritises welfare in the municipalities, which shows that the groups most in need of social assistance are being lifted, among others. those who struggle with alcohol and mental health. It is a budget that ensures that we invest in school, in knowledge — perhaps some of the most important things we can do to secure a society with small differences in the future. It is a budget that is about creating safe jobs, so that we can ensure our well-being, not only today, but also for the future. The 2015 budget provides us with a good basis for strengthening the well-being of our citizens. We are given new strength in the process of renewing, simplifying and improving the public sector. Together with our cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we are doing what we promised the voters: we are doing important tasks today, and we are arming Norway for the future. A good and predictable municipal economy is important in order for the municipality to develop good welfare services — kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly, and not least the specialised services for those who need the municipality the most: those who struggle with alcohol or mental health, or children in need of child protection. I am therefore pleased that the cooperation parties give priority to the provision of drug treatment, mental health and school health services. We did it in 2014, and we do it in 2015. This is a bet that must continue over many years in order for us to be able to give our citizens a good offer. Before last year's elections, red-green politicians were high and low with their fears about what a bourgeois majority would mean for the community economy. These horrors have been put to shame. The budget agreement with the cooperation parties facilitates the provision of better knowledge for municipalities in schools, better quality in the health and care sector and continues to work to close gaps in the social security network. The budget agreement provides for a real growth in total municipal income of SEK 7.8 billion. SEK, of which SEK 4,7 billion. kr in free income. This means that the municipalities get a real growth in 2015 at the level of what they got under red-green rule. The real space for action for municipalities will be larger than it has been in recent years. Of course, the municipalities should have had even more, and an opposition working party will always have more money. But the Labour Party's attempt to use black food in its descriptions of the municipal economy for 2015 is, in that case, a strong criticism of its own policies over many, many years. This does not mean that municipal politicians are given a simple job when they are to make their priorities in the municipal budget. Local politicians, as they have done all year long, also under red-green rule, must prioritize and think new things to raise their citizens. Of course, the debate on the state budget will be a debate on the pluses and minuses for next year. But it's also an invitation to raise your eyes, to see what challenges we as a nation, our jobs, are facing. What is clearly a priority in this budget is to strengthen school knowledge by providing more teachers with continuing training. It's about investing more in research and development, it's about better framework conditions for our businesses, and it's not least a big investment in transport, road and public transport. These are important investments both for our citizens today and – not least – to ensure that we are well-being in the coming years. Then I'm glad that we in the budget for next year have got a new, powerful commitment to the digitisation of the public sector. It will help us get a more efficient public sector, and it will help our citizens get more and better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3647	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3650	It was almost unreal to sit in the hall listening to the municipal minister while local politicians all over the country are looking to implement cuts in next year's municipal budgets. The municipal minister spoke here about prioritising municipal economy. He has also used other, really big words about the municipality layout for next year. He said to the nations last week that the economic space will be bigger next year than it has been in recent years, and that there is a historical commitment to mental health, drug and school health until next year. At the same time, the Municipal Survey shows that two thirds of the municipalities believe that the action space will be reduced to the next year. I would believe that when right-hand-ruled municipalities like Bergen and Stavanger introduce and increase the property tax, they do not because they have a terrible desire, but because they have to do it. Then I wonder: why is there so much distance in the reality description between the municipal minister and his own party traps in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3657	Helga Pedersen has also been involved in Norwegian policy for a long time. In any case, she should remember for the last eight years, and there was not enough notice with the rapporteurs from the Labour Party, the SV and the Senter Party who thought they were getting far too little in transfers from the state. That's the way it is. My descriptions of the municipal economy for next year are quite correct, and it is also in line with what KS has said, namely that there is room for prioritising welfare services in municipalities for next year. In fact, the municipal report went so far that they wrote that it is ‘rarely expensive for politicians to sub-communicate how large money bags are distributed, but it actually does Jan Tore Sanner’. The point is that the growth of free income in municipalities is at the level of what they were under red-green rule. I'm not saying it's gonna be easy for the local politicians, but if it's hard for next year, it hasn't been any easier under red-green rule in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3667	I notice that the Minister of Local Affairs uses KS as a witness of truth. Now, KS's chief economist has just said about the free incomes for next year, and he has said that once demography and retirement have been deducted, it's probably not going to be more than 1.4 billion. of the free income. He further points out that the revenue generated by municipalities next year must most probably be used to cover the tax deficit this year. It's now close to 3 billion. kr, and it refuses to compensate the municipal minister for, even though he has done so by the last two cross roads. The last right made up the budget with the Progress Party, in 2004, was a main requirement of the Progress Party to compensate for the tax deficit in municipalities in order to avoid welfare cuts. Nor can I remember in 2009 that the Right Party and the Advance Party opposed compensating for the tax failure. Why do you now believe that it is a new and important principle in Norwegian policy that municipalities should not be compensated for when tax revenue fails and this will lead to a significant... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3672	It always meant the Workers' Party before. When Jens Stoltenberg was the head of the Workers' Party, the Workers' Party felt that the municipalities themselves had to cover tax losses in order to increase tax growth in the years they had. When Per-Kristian Foss compensated for tax failure in 2004, he was severely criticised by the Labour Party's fiscal spokeswoman, Hill-Marta Solberg. At that time, the Workers' Party believed that the municipalities had to cover themselves for the few years of their tax failure, and then they had to keep tax growth in the years they had. I'm recording that the representative refers to the KS. KS acknowledges at least that there is growth in the free revenues. When you listen to the Working Party, it seems like it's not growth at all. The reality is that next year's growth is 1.5 pst. real growth. When former Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen presented the proposal for 2013, he said it was a good arrangement for the municipalities. Then they got 1.3 pst, which is significantly below what we put in for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3679	On 13 March, the Ministry of Local Government and Modernisation sent out a happy message telling them that the system of differentiated employer charges was extended by 31 new municipalities. The press release stated: ‘The reason why the government proposes that 31 new municipalities be included in the scheme is that these municipalities have had a weak development in the population, employment or economic weight.’ On 8 October, the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation presented the 2015 budget. Then this was turned to a blow on the face of these municipalities. The full effect of the reduction in the rate of the employer’s tax is recovered through a cut of 267 million. kr from the frame. The correction of the municipal framework due to the change in the rates of the differentiated employer fee has always been taken through discretionary means and in such a way that municipalities have retained a significant part of the effect. Now the government is taking away this effect from the municipalities. In addition, several municipalities experience that the County maintains the move in beauty products, so that they lose twice. Can the council explain the reverse operation the government adds up to, and what will be done with the municipalities that experience double moves?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3689	There may be a need to refresh a bit of what has been done in the past. Both in 2004 and 2007 local authorities were drawn into the municipal framework for the impact of reduced employer charges on municipal employment. It is important to remember and keep in mind that the lower employer rate scheme in many districts is about strengthening private employment. This has been the whole reason for a differentiated employer’s fee. It's a powerful tool to boost private employment in District Norway, and I'm glad we were able to get it in place for the next six years. It is important for District Norway, and it is important for the workplaces. Then the effect of the reduced employer rate on municipal employment is drawn into the framework. It was also done under the red-green regime, and we are continuing the practice that has been established for very many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3694	Some of the difference between the government and the Swedish government is that we spend the big money on the small people, on the small people, and not on the richest and strongest -- that's why we strengthen the community economy. Because that's what the Council of State said, that the local economy is about people, and it's about children and young people. Some of the kids get bullied, and they have so bad problems and thoughts that they can't talk to their parents or the teacher about it. They need a school health service, for it dares almost everyone to go to. When we were in government, we tried to strengthen this through the local economy, but we checked it, and there was almost no school health service. The nurses' union has now gone through this, and the review shows the same thing: there won't be any more health sisters if we don't label the money. Now I see that the government has agreed to earmark funds for drugs and psychiatry, and then my question is, can the Council of State with its hand on the heart promise that the kids who need school health now get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3701	I think it's just as difficult for me to give a perfectly clear and unambiguous answer to that as it was for Karin Andersen in the last growing-up period. But we have the same commitment for the children who are struggling, whether they are struggling because they are being bullied, or they are struggling with the background of other challenges. That's why we're betting on school health, and what we're clear about, is that we're not just going to make one year and then turn around and bet on something else for next year. We do it one year after another, and it makes the municipalities feel confident that these are priority areas and important areas for the government. We also expect the municipalities to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3706	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3709	The budget to be adopted by the Stortinget today marks a clear shift in health and care policy. The Budget Agreement of the Cooperation Party ensures and strengthens important efforts, while at the same time maintaining the main priorities of the Government. We go from word to action in creating the patient's healthcare. In 2015, we will launch the introduction of free treatment options, where we will present important reforms to the Stortinget in the context of national health and hospital plans, notification of primary health services, an escalation plan for the drug field, a new public health notification and a communication on medical policy. The government will use all the good forces, and we want modern and forward-looking solutions in the interaction and cooperation between public and private and non-profit actors. Diversity contributes to freedom of choice, innovation and efficiency. It's the patients who are going to be at the center of the changes that we're doing -- we're going to create the patient's healthcare. All shall have access to equivalent health care and good quality. Through increased appropriations, clear priorities and new solutions, the government shows that it prioritises the health and care sector. The aim is to ensure that everyone has the security that good, publicly funded healthcare is there both for themselves and for their family when they need it. We deliver on what we promised. We need to reduce unnecessary and non-medically justified waiting for patients. We need to increase capacity and improve quality in the care and care sectors, and we need to give priority to better treatment and prevention in the field of mental health and drugs. Next year, we will implement several measures that together contribute to reducing waiting times. It facilitates a growth in patient treatment in hospitals of 2.5 pst. This is a high growth compared to previous years. At the same time, today's system of strict management of the activity in hospitals is being phased out. This means that hospitals can treat more patients when they have capacity and finances. We are launching the introduction of the free treatment choice reform in the specialist healthcare service. The reform will help reduce waiting times, increase patient freedom of choice and stimulate public hospitals to become more effective. We put the people in front of the systems. Today we had the first large national meeting for the introduction of packaging processes in the field of cancer. During this year, interdisciplinary diagnostic centres have been established and become established in all health regions. As of 1 January, we will introduce package sequences for the four major cancers, which essentially include half of the cancer patients. It will reduce unnecessary waiting and not least provide better information and safety to Norwegian cancer patients. In Norway, we are good at survival in cancer, but we are not as good at the patient’s health experience. Many people experience the health service meeting as an extra burden in a heavy and difficult time. Wrapping processes for cancer are an important part of the solution. We get better arrangements in free hospital choice and information to patients about the existing and the new rights they get. For improved quality, capacity and choice of care services, the government has proposed a net overall strengthening of nearly 570 million. kr in 2015. The effort was reinforced in the budgetary agreement, including: 30 million. kr to welfare technology. Last year, the Stortinget joined the government's proposal to increase the investment grant for lucky day care facilities. This is now producing results. Already on 31 October, grants have been granted for more than 500 more sites than in the whole of 2013. The government also proposes to strengthen the free income of municipalities next year by 300 million. kr for rights-attachment and user-controlled personal assistance. It is not the right that costs money, it is the extension of the offer that costs money. The government will also have a new and reinforced effort for people with drug problems and mental health problems. Therefore, a stepping-up plan for the drugs field is presented in 2015, a communication on public health and the primary health service of the future. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree to lift those who have been sitting at the bottom of the health policy table for too long. Therefore, we need to strengthen and expand the supply of people with mental health challenges in municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3735	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3738	Before last year's elections, we had a number of discussions between the parties, not least between the Right Party and the Workers' Party, where the Right Party was able to leave the impression that there was no contradiction between promising huge tax cuts and having equal stakes in investment and welfare. I'm a little uncertain about whether that description stands after this budget harvest. I'm just wondering what it feels like to be a health minister in a government where the main effort is so strong on tax cuts that it 1 pst. the wealthiest proportion of the population is paid in tax cuts as all the country’s hospitals grow in their budgets next year. That emotional life I would like to have had a glimpse of, because it must have been a special time to sit in these government negotiations and be involved in it. Can the Minister of Health inform the Storting about how such a priority can be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3747	It feels good. It feels good to be in a government capable of prioritising welfare while at the same time reducing taxes on the welfare of the future. Because that's exactly what this is all about. In our first two budgets, the Right-wing Party Government has facilitated a higher growth in patient treatment compared to what the Red-Green Government has adopted over its eight years. The right-wing Party government is able to invest more in mental health and drug treatment, raise those who have been at the bottom of the health policy table for too long, and the Right-wing Party government is also able to make the State take greater responsibility for lifting capacity, competence and quality in the care of the elderly. We are able to do this, and at the same time we are giving priority to tax havens that ensure that we also have jobs in Norway in the future that will finance and support the well-being of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3757	The follow-up of mentally ill people with drug problems needs to be improved. When the specialist health service sends these patients out to the municipalities, the municipalities in many cases have neither resources, competence nor suitable housing for the individual facing major complex challenges. Establishing housing containers is not a good solution, but it is a consequence that we have not been good enough to help this patient group. The government has granted 400 million. D to lowthreshold services in free resources for municipalities. The Christian People's Party is concerned that this group will not be deprived when the municipalities are now doing their budgetary work. My question to the Council of State is: What will he do to ensure that this group is given the necessary help and good follow-up in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3766	In that work I have received good help from the Christian People's Party and the Left, in the budgetary agreement we have now concluded, where the appropriations for this purpose have also increased by 10 million. kr, which is aimed at maintaining and further developing the good joint teams established between the specialist health service and the municipalities. I am very concerned that these patients, who have complex mental health problems and drug problems, should not have a future in which to live in institutions for a long time, but could move home and live and live well in their municipalities. But then the specialist health service has to be out helping the municipalities, and it makes this budget settlement very good. At the same time, in the comparison, it's 100 million. The Ministry of the Interior's budget is based on a housing social initiative. In addition, this makes it possible for us to be able to provide patients with what they actually need and that we now know is good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3773	The administration will introduce free treatment options into health services. The proposal meets with great resistance. Health West fears a flight of competences from public hospitals and thinks it only belongs to patients with clarified problem settings. Norwegian Psychologists' Association warns against free treatment choices, at least in the area of mental health and intoxication, which the government will give priority to. The Health Care Association writes that ‘free treatment choices will involve a level of private commercial services that we have not seen in Norwegian healthcare before’. These are strong words. My question is, why does the government not belong to the hearing authorities in this case? What are the objectives of introducing free treatment options and giving private companies access to a Norwegian health market, where the country pays?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3784	The proposal on the introduction of free treatment choices will be submitted to the Christmas Stortinget. Then we will also have considered the hearings that have come. However, the purpose of the reform will be to provide people in need of treatment with faster access to the available capacity of authorised private and non-profit institutions. This is not least important for people who are addicted to drugs and people with mental health challenges. I am a little surprised that the representative Toppe is making this as patients who have not solved problems. If you look at the reality, it is these two patient groups that have the highest proportion that are directly referred to treatment and not to investigation, precisely because it is very clear what type of treatment these patients need. I strongly react to the way these patients are manufactured. These are also patients who have very strong opinions, even though what treatment services they want to choose. That opportunity I want to give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3791	The Health Minister knows very well that that discussion is not about the view of patients, but about the view of the role of commercial actors in our healthcare system. But I was going to ask for something else, because in the media in the last few days we have had new revelations about the use of illegal coercion, the presence of malnutrition and caregivers who have too little time for the elderly in Norwegian care for the elderly. We – both the Minister of Health and I – know that this is not the whole picture of municipal elderly care in Norway, but we also know that this kind of thing is happening. It's nothing new, and I'm not going to blame it on the Health Minister, who's only been sitting for a year, but I'm a little surprised by the advice the Health Minister has given in the media today, where he so strongly emphasizes issues related to the skills of employees, when we know that those who really succeed are doing something about the number of employees and increasing basic staffing, or stopping the stopwatches in the home services in favor of increased professional judgement and trust. Before a municipal election campaign where it should be high on the agenda, I wish we could see a health minister who argued for more people and more trust in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3800	There are going to be more people in the care of the elderly, but skills are also important. It is not true that there is no link between competence and quality – on the contrary. There is good evidence that there is a close link between competence and quality in the care of the elderly. That is why this government is paying more than 400 million. earmarked crowns for empowerment measures in municipalities. But I am today happy to see in the media that SV also agrees with the Right Party Government that the State must take greater responsibility for ensuring the capacity, quality and competence of the municipal care service. Here, this government is different from the previous government, whose Minister of Health repeatedly, when these kinds of issues arose, solely due to the municipalities. We want to work with better national systems to ensure good standards and guidance for skills, quality and staffing in the care sector, just to provide people with security to get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3807	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3812	Several speakers, particularly from the position, have today accused representatives of the Labour Party of not making elections and not making priorities. The last time we heard from the representative, Mr. Gundersen's intervention and his attack on both the representative, Mr. Dag Terje Andersen, and on the representative, Mr. Støre, my party leader, was not a priority, nor was there any commitment to the new industries that we have to live on in the future. I have to say that it gave me a good basis to start this article. I believe that the organisation of the Labour Party shows with full gravity that within the economy we have here in Norway, we have the opportunity to make important priorities. The fact that we do not now approach the tax profile of the government parties and also the cooperative parties gives us a significant choice and also opportunities to make bets with a reduced use of oil money. Secondly, it is made, in particular, by the representative of Gundersen in his recent speech, that no effort is being made on the industries that we must live on in the future as we descend the oil economy. I think it's going to be quite fresh when you look at the draft budget that came from the government, to accuse the opposition of almost not having a bet on it, for example. development of Norwegian forest industry. We see in the Labour Party budget, which we are going to vote for, that we have chosen not to cut research into what is perhaps some of our leading industries, i.e. soil, forest and bio-economic industries. You have not chosen to do the cut that the government proposed, but you have chosen to increase by almost 40 million. kr. In the case of infrastructure, which is important, inter alia: in forestry – ports and forest roads and what they may be – a significant increase is being made by the Workers' Party, a bet of approximately 40 million. kr, which is perhaps one of the most important things we can do for these industries. The same thing about value creation in forests, where you're experiencing cuts, while we're proposing a significant strengthening. This is something that's given room for just because you make choices and priorities. It is believed that distributing significant amounts to those who have the most from before does not necessarily create the most, and that you should go into that type of activity after creating it. What I also wonder about, as one might forget in this debate, in particular by the representative of Gundersen, is that the most obvious promise that came from the Right, both in the election campaign and in previous years, that there should be a significant improvement in the arrears of agricultural and forestry property and that there should be some dampening of the tax burden on profits – and that is even stated in the government platform – has obviously also been left in this round. It is essentially the opposition and the Left and Christian People's Party that have stood by the fact that it will be a right strategy now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3829	As the Psalm says, ‘relatives must follow the race of relatives’, I believe that the most important responsibility we have for future generations is what we have for future generations. This also applies to healthcare. Security of assistance and care when needed is one of the pillars of our welfare society. It is a public responsibility to ensure all good health and care services when the need arises. Increasing and ageing populations, as well as increasing opportunities in medical treatment, make it more important than ever to adapt healthcare to the population and disease picture of the future. It is a challenge that some people with a high need for help do not get the help they need. The NRC has reviewed reports from several parts of the healthcare system, developed over the past few years. The judgment is clear – as the Lighthouse was in it –: In health and care there is a lot to be done. The government did not come to the covered table. On the contrary, looking at healthcare with new eyes was an important reason why the people threw the red-green government last year. The review of the day last night was a good order and showed us well what work tasks are ahead of us health policy-makers, and where we have to bet. Our budget will reduce the waiting time for patients. Capacity is increasing and quality in the care and care sector is being strengthened. More is allocated to the faster treatment and prevention of mental health challenges and better provision for drug addicts. Patients and their needs need to be placed at the centre of health care development and change. There is a need to strengthen and modernise the health and care services in the municipality and to ensure better coordination of health services. Care for the elderly and caregivers needs to be further developed in order to provide all those who need it with a quality and activity-related offer. We will use all the good forces to ensure patients' health care of high quality, with greater freedom of choice and diversity in the offer. An example is the plan on cancer package trajectory, which comes from January next year. It should ensure that people do not disappear in the system, that they know what is the next step, and that they get good treatment faster. There is no more budget line for the budget line that ensures health into the future, but a comprehensive policy that sees the system in context and puts the patient in the centre. The system has many defenders here in the hall, but we're not chosen to defend the system. We have been chosen to manage it – preferably also improve it. We have bigger ambitions than just building on today's system. We want to build new and better. It is claimed from some teams that the health care system works well, just adding more money. However, with limited human resources and an increasing number of residents — and therefore patients — this is too passive. We need to find new and better solutions that make our total resources work best together.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3848	In the census, which is the government's short note of next year's priorities and priorities, the government announced that the oil will no longer be the engine of the Norwegian economy. This is a very important signal, for many reasons. The oil has made us rich, but also vulnerable. The main reason for our well-being growth in the last 40 years is precisely to be found in oil and gas exports. The Norwegian supplier industry is world-class. It has helped well in view of the massive value creation that we have received. At the same time, we've become vulnerable to what we're now facing. When the oil price has fallen by 20 pst. since summer, it means lay-offs and lay-offs. The outcome of Thursday’s OPEC summit was also not uplifting. This will mark the everyday life of people throughout the country, and – as the Minister of Finance pointed out earlier today – we will also notice it in the Norwegian economy. Norway is the oil and gas nation, but we are also the renewable nation, with hydropower in buckets and buckets. We are also a major supplier of fish to the world. Based on our natural resources, we can also take a leading role in the bioeconomy. We have the resources, we have the skills, and we have the money on the book. We have a great coast where we can produce algae, the blue gold in the bioeconomy – we just don't know the extent yet. The cultivation of seaweed is also in line with the government’s long-term research plan, which deals with the sea, climate and environment. Our country is growing again, literally. Decommissioning less wood than growth – why? The answer is complex, but we can do something. We can start by planting more forest, even if it sounds strange. We can use more timber. We can do research on uses. We can develop the market, including: by increasing the requirement for blending biofuels into petrol and diesel. And we can change the charges, so that the timber wins in competition against other polluting inputs. These are things that the Left and Christian People's Party – together with the government parties – got in place in the negotiations on today's budget. There is also impressive research and development work on renewable resources in Norway. We are among the elite of the world, and we must take care of that. We're not going to have the oil as the main engine of the Norwegian economy. I believe that we need a new bioeconomy strategy in this country, a strategy that the government can develop in cooperation with business and organisations. Together, they can tickle out the overall – and also the concrete – proposals on how the bioeconomy can become the engine of the Norwegian economy. My goal is that when we stand in this room next year and debate the budget for 2016, we will also debate instruments for how the bioeconomy can take Norway forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3865	In 2014, for the first time in history, the Health and Welfare Committee of the European Parliament was on a committee mission in Australia. It's about time. We're talking about one of the world's health giants – it's in the quality of its health care system, research and development in health and biotechnology, cooperation with other countries, efforts in international organisations such as the UN and the WHO, and assistance in developing countries. Australia is a big continent. Norway is a small country. But there's a lot of similarities between us. Socially, we're pretty much the same, and in terms of life, we're the same. It's also going to be equal to the share of gross domestic product that we spend on health, both countries are roughly on the OECD average of 9.3 pst. I have to say I was very impressed with Australia, which has made health its largest industry and export product. At the same time, oil and gas are building up, and today there are 45 Norwegian companies represented in Australia. We should go the other way and switch parts of the oil and gas industry into health and innovation, for example. by getting Australian companies to Norway, but not least by developing a world-class health university, developing world-class health researchers, establishing a health innovation centre and improving health education and recruitment. With the agreed budget here today, we are taking some important steps on the way to developing a new Norwegian growth sector, health. We will meet the growth in the Norwegian sector by 2040. Not least, there is a major need and markets for healthcare and technology in the world, with a population on the way to 9 billion people. International cooperation will be one of Norway’s most important strategies in the coming years in terms of health. This budget provides a significant contribution to seed funds. The appropriations amount to two new seed funds totalling 300 million. kr. Based on a 50-50 distribution between public and private capital, it means a capital injection of more than 600 million. kr. The initiative is a major step forward in building a new knowledge-based business, including in health. Last year, the Left presented a proposal for a health-building scheme to help make a long-term development phase slightly more flexible through tax incentives. We also welcome a debate on opening up the gift-enhancing system for medical research in hospitals, not just at universities. The left will be a driver to facilitate the find of founders and capital and to find forms of organisation in the health sector that create both services and more budding. An emerging growth sector in the Australian health industry is e-health and telemedicine. Here Norway can take a global position with them and our neighbouring countries. The left has the ambition to use, in Norway, both telemedicine and large-scale welfare technologies to provide patients and residents with better services and increased security. We are therefore very pleased that we got through to the negotiations for a large national welfare technology project aimed at home-dwelling chroniclers. With this, we can have important experience in implementing large-scale new welfare technologies. Towards new municipalities and a new primary care, this is an important investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3881	The budget we are discussing today is going in the wrong direction. Although the conciliation has shifted some of the budget, the direction has not changed. The right-wing Party government stands for tax cuts for those who have the most, rather than strengthening the welfare of most people. The municipalities around the country are now preparing large cuts in their budget for 2015. They do so with a background in the municipal proposal and the changes that have been made in 2014. Unfortunately, there are no major changes in today's budget that will improve the situation significantly for these municipalities and counties. This will not least mark my home country, Nordland. As you know, it's one of the states that comes out very badly with government policy. Even after an increase of 60 million. kr. to the county councils in the conciliation, they get extremely poor with the new cost keys. Nordland is coming out badly, and there is also a need to live with the uncertainty for the years 2016–2019, for which they also have to budget for these days, because they do not know. The new distribution key hits Nordland and Sogn and Fjordane extra hard. The cuts in regional development funds remember that we went hardest across the Nordic region, with 66 million. kr. In addition, when you do not want to compensate for a lack of tax failure, there will be major challenges for municipalities. Another major increase in the cost of county councils is an increase in the costs of ferries and fast boats. We see that in new bidding rounds costs increase up to 40-50 pst., for which they are not compensated. The working party will postpone the introduction of the new cost keys, as these affect some states unreasonably. The Labour Party has also proposed increasing the appropriations for municipalities and counties by 3.4 billion. kr. And last, but not least, we will compensate for the lack of tax revenue in 2014, which is now approaching 3 billion. kr. This will not the government, and indicates that KS believes it is a good budget, and that there is no need for compensation for the tax failure. Is it so, or is it perhaps that the majority of KS is governed by the views of the government and not by the views of the member municipalities? As former rapporteur in a district municipality, I know that this will pain many who are struggling with this year's operation and, not least, with the 2015 budget. A good community economy is essential for providing good welfare, but here we see that the government prioritises tax cuts rather than increased welfare. The government shows a lack of willingness to bet on the municipalities. For example, my home municipality, Hemnes, would have received $2 million. kr more with our budget. The neighboring municipality of Rana would have received almost 10 million. kr more with our budget. In addition, these municipalities would be compensated for the tax failure perhaps by equivalent amounts. These are significant sums that local politicians want to spend on schools, kindergartens and hospitals, while government chooses tax cuts rather than welfare. I find that Jern-Erna is back.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3900	The government has provided a budget that equips Norway for the years ahead and that solves important challenges today. For Norway to continue to be one of the world’s best countries to live in, it is important that we continue to ensure safe jobs. Today, we have a special cost challenge that weakens Norwegian-led jobs in international competition. Therefore, we make it more profitable to invest in Norwegian jobs by reducing property taxes. Norway is the third or fourth largest exporting country. Today’s NRK Nordland newsprint also tells of a happy development, among other things. for the aquaculture industry with a low priced background due to lower oil prices. This shows that the world picture also affects Nordland. But when I am in contact with residents and businesses in Northern Ireland, there is one continuous feedback: the rate of traffic. That is why I am very pleased and satisfied with the government's great commitment to one of the most important things for the Nordic export state, namely transportation. The government is providing its budget proposal for a faster construction of the road and the track. For the Nordic part only, this direct investment represents 142.3 million. kr to county roads. I am pleased that, with this effort, we can be “spoiled” with road work in several places in our long-distance state. I am also pleased that the government maintains and strengthens the system of interest compensation for the states, which the red-greens wanted to remove. E6 Helgeland North is delivered, and here we reduce the toll rate, which gives a lower bill both to business and to people most – this in addition to many other good highway investments in the north. For the first time since the county councils took over responsibility for former highways in 2010, we halt the growth of the maintenance seat run on the road, which grew under the red-green government. This initiative will increase road safety and accessibility for citizens and will increase the predictability and accessibility of businesses. Nor can I let go of commenting on the government's ambitious proposals for the budget for justice. This is an area that has been a low priority in the past. We deliver a budget that provides significant reinforcement of police and preparedness. The government’s policy is based on the need for security of the individual in everyday life. The government is committed to strengthening the coherence of criminal proceedings. In order to achieve this, we are dependent on the presence and effectiveness of the police, the rapid and secure handling of criminal offences and the response to criminal law, which send out clear signals that undesirable behaviour is not tolerated. Violence against children is a major social problem. The government is actively working on several good actions to show that the problem is being taken seriously. One of the measures, Statens Barnehus, has increased its budget to 90 million. kr for 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3919	The state budget shows what we think is most important. I tend to say that if you're going to follow what someone thinks is important, then you're going to keep a firm eye on the money, because it tells a lot about it. For SV, the community, school, care for the elderly, hospitals, those who have it most difficult, is much more important than those who have everything on their care, those who are not struggling to get ends to meet, but who have jobs and good opportunities, are getting even more. So it's quite outrageous that the government chooses what it does. They think that more people should get to work by helping fewer people to get to work when they cut the jobs, for example. when cutting in the transitional aid for lone dependants in such a way that they are not able to qualify for three years. One year is enough, said the Prime Minister here in the Questionnaire a few weeks ago. We're not saying that to anyone else who starts some education in this country. We know that you need to be qualified to get a job, and especially if you're going to be able to take care of your sails and your kids alone. This is completely opposite of what we should do. To cut in e.g. In fact, the child allowance for disabled people, for cutting off schemes to help disadvantaged people, means getting more poor people. Only these cuts — if the government had implemented what it thought — would give over 36,000 new poor children overnight. So it won't be less poor to take the income from poor people and even remove the measures that would enable them to get to work and take care of themselves. It is therefore important for SV to spend money on this, on several measures, on measures for the disadvantaged, and that we spend money on prevention, for example. health. There, we spend about as much — on fruit and vegetables and food for schoolchildren — as the government and partners spend on tax-free alcohol for adults. I know very well what is best: preventive health work. We've discussed earmarking, and I'm very concerned that we should strengthen the school health service. Now the Health Minister was in the pulpit and said that he was sure that they would get the help they needed, and that therefore eartags would be used. Yeah, right. That's why SV will designate the money for the school health service, because when we don't, it won't be school health service. It might as well be asphalt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3932	In 23 days, most people throughout Norway will pack up one or more Christmas gifts. I feel that we have already unpacked a great gift, namely the government's government budget – a government budget that will bring this country forward in the right direction. Yes then, it took time to get to port with the budget negotiations, but the final result is so sure to live with also for the Progress Party. We have carefully put our footprint on the budget to be managed after the coming year. The election last year showed that people want a new course, a new direction, and no more red-green training from a worn red-green government. Now the Right and Advance Party are on the right track to deliver what the voters asked for. It is reassuring to see that large and heavy areas such as transport, health and justice are the winners of the budget. These are areas for which the Progress Party has fought every year, and where we are now being supplied, precisely because we are in government. For me who comes from Buskerud, it is a pleasure to see Minister of Transport Ketil Solvik-Olsen show his action by speeding up the process of new E16 to Hole and Ringeriksbanen between Sandvika and Hønefoss, which will make the Ringerix region even more attractive both to live in and to work in. It will lead to new start-ups and new jobs, people's properties will be worth more when travel time to Oslo is reduced, and the whole region will have a promise. This shows that infrastructure, whether roads or public transport, is building the country. For the first time, the maintenance run on the railway goes back, and thanks to this budget it also becomes more and better roads across the country, which is to give a delicious smell of newly created asphalt throughout our long-range country. Looking through the Buskerud goggles, it is gratifying that the new government is also increasing the speed to realize a new crossing over the Oslo Earth, ensuring trial operation and probably also permanent reopening of the Steinberg station in the Lower Eiker, have found planning tools for new rv. 35 between Hokksund and Åmot, and have ambitions to solve challenges related to Rv. 23 in Røken and Lier, E134 past Kongsberg and has also found funds for planning the project. 7 Hardanger Range. For Buskeruds part, funds will also be allocated to Modum Bad and several rehabilitation establishments, as well as 5 million. kr through advance promises of toys for the world’s largest jumping hill, the Vikingsund ski slope, as joyful pre-Christmas gifts. Let me conclude by saying that a lot of work remains, but that it is reassuring to be able to establish that the government is on the right track. Good solutions are provided on continuous tapes, and at the bottom of most of them is the very powerful word ‘negotiating force’. That's what this government is showing and to be remembered for in the future, that it's acting and making things happen, through policies that bring our country forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3951	After eight years, it is good to present a budget with a clear Christian People's Party stamp, and I must say that after hearing many articles, there are many good bits of the budget that have not come out, it has drowned in plastic bags and other matters. But what I want to promise you is that we will succeed in achieving a more active climate policy, and that we will be able to continue the transition to reach the low-carbon society, the society where it pays to choose green, and where it costs to pollute, a society that takes social responsibility, both for the world's poorest and for those who fall outside Norway, through measures to help even more people come into working life or prevent them from falling out. Now I see that the representative Karin Andersen has gone out of the hall, but her post was an example of why it was important to get a Christian People's Party profile here, because the criticism was against the budget that came from the government, and as it was after the conciliation, it really wouldn't have been any sense to raise any of the issues that she criticized. The budget raises families, ensures flexibility and freedom of choice through good cash support and even more kindergartens, so that you can choose for yourself. There is a clear prioritisation of knowledge and higher education, and there is a strong commitment to the younger students through increased teacher density. In the South, which is called the forgotten part of the country, there is a clear bet on the E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal, which comes in 2015/2016, and it is a bet on rv. 9 and also on the E39. At the UiA there have been new scholarship positions – together with the universities of Stavanger and Nordland, which are the new ones. In the Justice budget, one raises the important issue of security for vulnerable groups. It's a record bet on the police. But the Christian People's Party is extra proud that we have received funds for the fight against human trafficking – or slavery, as it really is. In today's world, maybe as many as 30 million people live in slavery, it's more than ever. In Norway, we know that there are a few thousand people, and we've seen a lot of headlines about the Lime case, about the crime of working life, and we know that there are also a lot of people working as sex slaves. Now there are five groups, or groups of investigators, lawyers, in the five largest police districts or cities, who are going to work hard to investigate more human trafficking. We've also had an impact on even more violence in close relationships, which is a serious social problem – it may cost society as much as 6 billion. kr annually, shows estimates, and as many as 100 000 children can be directly or indirectly affected. The budget for the following year, for example: the number of children’s homes is increased from 60 million. NOK 90 million. kr. There's a clear commitment to a group that needs our attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3964	So far in the debate, most of it has been said about what we think about today's draft budget, and in all modesty, I believe that the draft budget of the Labour Party is better for the Norwegian people than the budget of the government and its supporters. I claim this, because I believe that the social-democratic value-seeing trumps the value-liberalism that lies at the bottom of the blue-blue parties. As a district representative, I know that this claim holds, because I see that the Community idea, on which we all depend, is put at risk at the expense of cultivating the few. The representative Martin Kolberg described it so incredibly well in his post earlier this evening. Many have with glimpses in the eye described Finnmark as the three t-ers state. A good friend of mine defined the three ts as tipping, social security and grants. Many might say that there is something in it, but the truth is that over the last eight years, the red-green policy has contributed to the three ts today being free of content. Like the rest of the country, many new jobs were created in Finland, most of which were created in the private sector under the previous government. One of the most important tasks of the public sector to be performed by the public sector is inter alia: in the field of industrial policy, and to facilitate activity. In that picture, it's all about so much more than just focusing on property taxes. For actors outside the country, public support schemes are very important, among other things. It is important to have a good and predictable local economy, to have a well-functioning Innovation Norway and to have sufficient money for regional development funds. These are examples of good public contributions that created new jobs. Perhaps such schemes are particularly important in a capital-poor state such as Finnmark. As one of many measures in the government’s efforts to change Norway, they took just over 40 million. kr from regional development funds for Finnmark, on the grounds that they would be used on the road. The reality is that in Finland the county council only went 20 million. kr for that purpose, the remainder was lost, probably as a contribution to tax relief. When the representatives from the Right defend such a re-priority, their promises to generate growth across the country become somewhat humiliated. I also record that an important industry such as fisheries is becoming more and more privatised, a few of them also own the resources provided by the sea. Many of these changes do not take place through political processes in this Chamber, no, here the Minister for Fisheries places silver in the hands of the major operators in Norwegian fisheries, and among them are not the finfishers from Finnmark. Agriculture is a very important industry for districts, including in Finnland. I would also like to give feedback to the Minister of Agriculture in connection with the reduction in redundancy: take good care of those who have already done the job, they deserve better than having to start it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3981	In this financial debate, there have been many from the opposition who have argued against the tax settlement in the State budget for 2015, and especially against the property tax. It has throughout our expressions as tax havens for the rich, tax laws for those who have the most, tax laws for those who are wealthy. The response from the position has been rejected in cash by the government and the cooperation party in that this is about giving business good framework conditions and preserving and creating new, safe jobs. In my home country, Telemark, the NRK had a notice now in November entitled ‘Norwegian investors are failing the industry’. No Norwegian investors have been willing to invest in a new magnesium factory on the island of Porsgrund, but the magnesium factory is now close to financing the start-up of the first phase by means of foreign investors. A potential Norwegian investor then said to the NRK that one of the reasons why Norwegian investors are on the fence is as long as we have the strange Norwegian extra tax on Norwegian jobs, then it is not attractive to invest. This is also a major issue of rural policy. In the districts, there are often small family holdings. Many places are the corner stone companies, where it is not as easy to get another one. A while ago, I received an e-mail from such a company, a family-run hotel in Vrådal, West Telemark, with 40 years' work. The hotel owner writes that as the owner of a medium-sized enterprise in Utkant-Noreg, he and the family are among the many thousands who feel this treasure as an extremely heavy burden. He writes that what he pays in taxes on wealth, he would like to maintain to obtain a different result and not least use the funds for investment and product development. He also writes that he sees it as a distortion of competition that in the neighbouring municipality there is a tourist destination with foreign owners, who have no right to pay this tax every year. He asks if it's fair – and isn't it that we want to stimulate Norwegian and like local ownership? I could certainly reassure him that this government is busy, that this is the reason for the grip on the reduction in property taxes. The cooperation agreements between the four parties state: ‘Private ownership and saving are strengthened by reduced taxes on wealth and inheritance [[...]] And the parties believe what they promise: in the 2014 budget, we eliminate the inheritance tax and reduce the property tax, and the wealth tax is also reduced in the 2015 budget. That the opposition is trying to turn this into just the richest, or the most prosperous, is becoming something simple, to say it mildly, and little nuanced, and I hope that these two examples of reality can be an image of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e3999	With this financial position and the budgetary agreement that the Christian People's Party has concluded with the Right, the Progress Party and the Left, the social profile of the 2015 budget is strengthened. I'm glad. It is also very positive that the attitude implies a strengthening of the family profile and a strong strengthening of the kindergarten sector. With regard to the social profile of the family, I would like to mention the changes made by the agreement on child allowances, transitional allowances and taxes, the increased one-off benefit, the lower parental benefit for several families with low incomes in kindergartens, the postponement of the maximum price increase, the extension of the offer of free core time in kindergarten for four- and five-year-olds in low-income households, and the extension of 42 million. kr is set aside for free kindergarten for children living in reception centres. The Christian People's Party is pleased that Norwegian families are strengthened by a strong increase in family protection budgets. Several are given the opportunity to participate in a life course and parental training, and ideal family and child centres such as Aglo, Vilde, Sebbelow, Nanna-Marie and Solstrand are rescued from closure. Families also get a better daily life when more people experience that they have a real choice when the leave period is over. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the conciliation ensures that even more one-year-olds get kindergarten in 2015. I would also like to highlight today that adoption aid is finally being increased to 1 G, municipal child protection is being strengthened by 20 million. kr, and in addition there is a strengthening of child protection in Oslo by 10 million. kr. The budget of the councils for child protection and social affairs is increased by 10 million. kr, and more funds are allocated to the recruitment of foster homes. The agreement also means 2 million. increased support for holiday measures for disadvantaged children and 2 million. DKK for grants to organisations in the field of child protection, i.e. the Change Factory. The alternative budget of the Christian People's Party is so good in the family field and otherwise. That's what's our primary position, and of course we're going to work more on in the future. I hope that the government will also include the Christian People's Party's alternative budget when they are about to start working on the 2016 budget, because there are very many good priorities in the areas that I have now mentioned. My main conclusion will be that the Christian People's Party is pleased that the 2015 budget after the conciliation has a better social profile, including in the family field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4014	Martin Kolberg was in the hall here worried that the government was moving away from the equality community. Then I can tell you that the government is for a diverse society. It's a society where the individual is in focus, not the state apparatus of power. It brings me to the health service, because there the government is just going to put the patient in the center, not the system and a power apparatus. In order to achieve that, there is a need for innovation, and you have to invest resources for those who need it the most. A new approach is needed, as a two-part healthcare system has gradually emerged in which those who have financial resources and an employer who can pay for you have the opportunity to buy out of queues. Under the red-green government, the cows grew in the fields of drugs and psychiatry, and that's exactly this patient group we want to prioritise. They're the ones at the bottom of the health policy table. In order to achieve this, it is precisely the new approach, the reform of the free choice of treatment, that is being introduced. It shall reduce waiting times, increase freedom of choice and stimulate public hospitals to become more effective. It shall mobilise free capacity at ideal, private and public hospitals. The Labour Party calls the reform of free treatment choices a performance reform. We call it the reform that puts the patient in the center. The working party is so bound by ideology that they cannot see that new reforms will benefit patients. The free choice of treatment will primarily strengthen the patient’s rights. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have always taken the lead in attaching rights to the treatment of patients in the hospital. The working party has always crept after. With the Right and Advance Party in the Government and Höie as ministers in 2014 and 2015, the hospitals have received the budget growth of the times. Figures from the Ministry of Finance show that in the years when the red-greens were in place, health businesses did not have such growth. The government will provide for a higher rate of growth in patient treatment next year compared to previous years. The working party tries to give a different impression. That's wrong. It facilitates a patient growth of about 2.15 pst. Health enterprises also have an increased room for action to enter into leases for equipment and construction. Undertakings may now lease new medical and technical equipment that contributes to improved patient treatment and resource use. It was claimed from the red-greens that a reduction in the peculiar wealth tax could have been applied to hospitals. You have to have two thoughts in your head at the same time in a budget. One is to increase well-being, the other at the same time to give business better framework conditions. Money must be earned before it can be used. This will help to strengthen the hospital economy even more in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4029	The government went around for a long time and said: just wait until October 2014, then you will see what we stand for. Then we put our first state budget with our whole hand on the wheel. Then came the proposal, and we saw what they stood for. It was a proposal for a government budget that favored the richest part of Norway's population, and that was perceived by most people as a very unsocial budget proposal. There was a number of cuts that hit them pretty much with little from before. Then, it was correctly taken some grip by the Christian People's Party and the Left who have corrected some of the most serious issues in the government's proposal, but the main issue is firm. We have confirmed that. It's huge tax cuts to the richest people in this country, as dominating single cases. This draft budget is drawing Norway in the wrong direction and does not take into account the major challenges that we see coming in the coming years. The working party wants something else. We take the big money and spend on the big challenges. The local economy is one of these challenges, and the Labour Party, in its draft budget, shows a strong and real willingness to invest in municipalities as a welfare producer and welfare developer. The Labour Party sees that if we are to receive equivalent and good municipal services, it has to keep up with money. What we now experience is that the municipality after the municipality calls for more funding for care and school, to mention something. The local authorities of Norway are now presented on the table with cut-off proposals and proposals for the introduction or increase of property taxes. They don't do this because they think it's very good to introduce property taxes or cut off the service offer, but simply because it's necessary to keep the municipality economically liquid, at the same time as the government grants billions of dollars in taxes to Norway's richest. Then the municipalities have to take a tax return of approx. Three billion. kr, where the government has not found funds to help. So state councillor Sanner should immediately stop telling lies about the Workers' Party. He should rather have the spine to stand up for his own policies, even if it is never so bad. For example, the municipalities in Eastfold would: received about 130 million. kr more about the municipal structure of the Workers' Party had received a majority. This money had gone right in welfare production in the municipalities where people actually live. They had not taken the tax return with the Workers' Party's proposal. That's what the facts are, and it should also be fair enough for the Sanner Council to accept. The Labour Party wants Norway to go in a different direction from that proposed by the government. We want Norway to go in a direction where the community is given priority and where the common promise to ensure and build well-being is the key values. It's really pretty sad to record that the government, with its vast majority of people, has priorities that don't lift this community, but that go more towards each one of them taking care of themselves. It's a bad choice, and it doesn't lead us forward. The inequalities just get bigger. It must be difficult to defend the majority in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4046	A few years ago, a Northern Norwegian rapporteur from the Workers' Party was going to open a bridge project, which they had finally completed, and he started his party speech by saying: This project, the villagers, has had many downs, but I guess there have been some backs as well. That rapporteur, I think, is the spokesman for the Workers' Party's Group today, because I must say with my hand that there is a long way between the points of light. Today's debate discusses equality and greater inequalities. It's quite strange that you can't focus on school and better health care quality and say that it will create greater equality and less differences. It's a rhetorical exercise I can't go with. We are discussing industrial policy and the development of business. It is strange that a large investment in transport and road maintenance does not help business, create business development and increase value creation. It's also a rhetorical exercise I'm not quite attached to. Tax credits to increase the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs are in the budget, and here I have to be allowed to stop, because this is where it has gone off completely in North Norway. Filosof and his representative Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes swung to the high altitudes earlier this fall, when it became known that the company Hurtigruten ASA was to be sold to English investors. When he thundered in the Nettavisen Nord24: ‘When ownership is moved out of the country, to an investor group in the tax haven of London, there is great concern along the coast that this can make the backbone of the coastal population a speculator.’ There may be cause for concern when you suddenly get new owners in a company as central as Hurtigruten ASA. The Hurtigruten is a large locomotive for travel life in the district and along the coast. It is a locomotive that has helped small players learn to think about both market and quality and to develop good travel life products. Through the winter effort, it has been an important player for Northern Lysturism and winter tourism that has come. But the strange thing about the entrance to Torgeir Knag County is that you don't want foreign owners, and then the state has to buy in. If we're so worried about foreign ownership, we should sit down and look at the tax system we have in Norway. The Hurtigruten was valued at 2.94 bn. kr. It's a company that hasn't made any money in the last ten years, and it's lost 1.4 billion. kr. Nevertheless, if Norwegian stakeholders went in and bought that company, they would have received a property tax bill every year from the state of EUR 29.5 million. kr. Then it's a little strange that we have red politicians from the part of the country running around saying that you're your capital-poor daughter. Well, doing something about the tax system is the first way to add capital and provide for a healthy Norwegian ownership in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4065	It's tempting to say to the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen that the government's Northern Territory bet is a bit like NM in the run-up without hope: it's fun to look at, but for most people, completely without results. I'll talk about trade union workers. In 10 years’ time, Norway may lack 90 000 skilled workers. It's critical. For this reason, there is also an urgent need to raise the level of professionalism, a boost to better theory, more practice, closer contact between school and work life, the recruitment of vocational teachers and more apprenticeships. I heard the statement to the Minister of Knowledge earlier. He was very offensive in the rhetoric. Then I thought that the times I hear him so offensive in the rhetoric, it's because he's really on the defensive. I wish he used all that energy in the trades. The Minister of Knowledge called the budget historic. I think he's right. I think it is the first time, at least for many, many years, that a minister of knowledge and a government is putting forward a budget of cutbacks for professional subjects. When you add up all the reductions and additions, you find that next year's government will spend less money on professional matters than you do this year. Nevertheless, there is talk of a professional lift. In the same budget where the big bet is tax cuts and you spend a hundred times more on tax cuts than on school, it's talking about a raise. It's only in the rhetoric of the Right Party and the Advance Party that cut gets lifted, that less becomes more, that stamina becomes progress. In the real world, there is almost no trace of a professional profession in the state budget. In the real world is not cut the same as bet. Fortunately, the minister of knowledge is rescued ashore by the opposition through an increase in the apprentice grant. But there's still no reason to lift the flag. I know that it is more than the Workers' Party who are calling for the follow-up to the Business Notice. In the government's teacher's vow, vocational training is referred to once and when it is established that disqualification in the profession is a serious problem. The Labour Party will invest in the skilled worker and in the professional sector. We want to increase support for getting more places to learn, so that students can complete their education. We will provide the schools with up-to-date equipment for vocational training. We also believe that vocational teachers deserve attention and will give them a lift of competence. And not least, we want the students to meet a decent and safe working life when they're fully educated. We can do that because we prioritise school in front of tax cuts, and we do that because the government's seas think is a serious problem, should be followed up by offensive bets, not just by offensive rhetoric.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4080	The government has presented a draft budget, and later a budgetary settlement, which solves important challenges today and which makes Norway more robust for the future. In the course of this debate, several have addressed the macroeconomic situation and several estimates of uncertainty and change, such as: the falling oil price and smaller growth impulses from the petroleum sector into the Norwegian economy. Recently, OPEC had its meeting, and the fact that they were unable to gather on some regulatory measures makes us expect that the oil price might be permanently low over a period of time. This makes us need a budget that stimulates conversion. The government's proposals for the state budget, with the changes in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that we are well adapted to the Norwegian economy and the challenges Norway faces in the future. The 2015 State Budget Agreement continues and reinforces Nydalen's agreement, and all four parties have their mark on the budget. It is a budget that will strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and value creation, a budget that will strengthen the social security network, build up below the working line and strengthen climate reconciliation. It has been said several times today that this is the best environmental budget ever, and for the first time emissions from the transport sector are expected to decline. We focus on key areas such as knowledge, health, transport and job security. The right is concerned with keeping order in the Norwegian economy. It is important to ensure jobs and to ensure value creation, the very basis for our well-being. The big difference in society between people is between those in work and those outside the labour market. It is therefore important to facilitate safe jobs and new jobs. Tax is an important part of the framework conditions. The right is concerned that we should have a sensible and competitive level of taxation that stimulates employment, saving and investment. We are also concerned that Norwegian business owners and investors should have the same conditions as non-residents when investing in Norwegian jobs. This is why, among other things: government reductions in taxes on wealth have been important. We see no reason why foreign investors, such as British operators, Chinese operators or others shall have better conditions than Norwegian owners. That is why I am pleased that we have also found room in this budget to make savings in property taxes, both by raising the bottom line and by reducing the rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4093	Today we are dealing with a budget that takes Norway in the wrong direction. The main priorities of the government’s proposals are fixed, with large tax cuts to the richest and hence increased differences. From the government we hear that this is about growth and not tax cuts to the richest. This is something the vast majority of professors of economics say there is no basis for claiming, and in the Workers' Party we believe that we should await the position of the Scheel Committee, which could provide answers to what really is growth-promoting tax conversion. In the Labour Party budget, we are facilitating growth and new jobs throughout the country through an active industrial policy. We see that the government is abandoning active business policies by introducing business-neutral and geographically neutral schemes. A district enemy cut is that this year the government cuts off regional development funds, which will affect local value creation and jobs around the country. I believe that it is not just the plastic bag charge mentioned that is not fully established in this budget, and in this context I would like to mention the increase in the limit for free online trade. Both the NHO and several other actors strongly criticised this in the hearing, as an anti-business policy that put several thousand jobs at risk. Another example is the government's proposal not to participate in the Copernicus programme. Here again, during the hearing, we noted several strong concerns about Norway’s withdrawal, as important research environments are affected and Norwegian industry’s potential for contracts is weakened. In this context, I would like to commend the Christian People's Party and the Left for putting this in place in the budget agreement. I will finally, since I come from there, mention a matter which concerns South Africa, and which I am proud that the Workers' Party is included in its budget. In 2011, the government set up the Sørlandse Committee. The main priority in the selection was the Mechatronics Innovation Lab, a centre for the development, testing, prioritisation and promotion of new innovative technological solutions, which are scarce in this country. It is therefore disappointing that the government, even through the budgetary agreement, found to fit in with a start-up grant here. I hope that we can put this in place and get back to it in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4104	The Labour Party wants Norway to be a country with small differences and great opportunities. That's why we say no to the government's non-social tax code. For us, welfare is more important to people than tax cuts to those who have the most. Our ambition is to build the country. We propose a strong boost to vocational training and strengthen efforts to combat social dumping and crime at work. Unlike the government, which cuts all over the country on regional policy instruments, we have an ambition to contribute to growth across the country. Where the government obviously believes that sick people are miraculously getting healthier if they become poor, we have better solutions. We're putting forward a broad commitment to public health and a strong commitment to hospitals. Unlike the government, we know that much of our welfare is created in the municipalities. Now we read every day about municipalities that cut in welfare. Two thirds of the country's rapporteurs and advisers say that the economic space in 2015 will be worse next year than this year. Unfortunately, the government is more concerned with speaking up its own policy than listening to those who describe the reality of Municipality-Norway. It should at least flash a warning lamp also at the right parties when the Right's own elected representatives are so frustrated by the community structure that they don't want to re-elect. Now we see seriously that tax cuts mean welfare cuts. But the government has left the responsibility for painful cuts in the welfare of the country’s municipal government members. And there are older students and kindergarten children who are left with the bill when the government prioritizes tax fixing for those who have the most. In the change of lines earlier today, the Council of State Sanner said that we just have to live with the fact that the local politicians are not satisfied. It's defensive. We have a choice. The Workers' Party will therefore strengthen the local economy by 3.4 billion. kr next year. In addition, we're going to compensate for the tax failure, which is now approaching 3 billion. kr. We don't want to sit still and watch the populace around the country do painful cuts that go out on the populace. The debate today has so far shown that the government parties are at least trying to be very satisfied with themselves. Any criticism from the opposition automatically triggers a tirate of how historically good this budget is. I don't know how many times I've heard the word «historic» today. The government parties are rusty with the honorary orders. We've even heard that this is the most social budget ever. It becomes clearer and clearer to me that the government lives up to the word “large in word, small in earth”.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4119	European countries have removed the wealth tax on current bonds without jeopardising their own tax system. I think I must be allowed to quote from the Workers' Party's Alternative State Budget: ‘The Labour Party considers that the Government, by its proposal, is at risk the legitimacy of the tax system.’ No, the government does not risk the legitimacy of the tax system, but the Workers' Party shows little transparency and respect for the social contract itself. And it's especially easy when we know that we live in a society with a great deal of trust between people. The Labour Party underestimates the needs of the future precisely because it has to do with the future. The importance of future employment and well-being is subordinated to the need for the status quo and the party's lack of willingness to go into and see what policies work and what policies do not work. When the oil age is over, it's okay to have money on the book. But that's not enough. Which industries are profitable when that time comes, it's impossible to have an education about. But one thing is certain: we must have knowledge, and without knowledge we cannot get far. That's why this government is paying so much attention to the training of teachers, to research, to school. We also need to bet on health. Unnecessary long sick messages are socio-economically expensive. That is why we are increasing the allocation to the hospital sector by 2 billion. kr, and we introduce free treatment choices. We certainly need an infrastructure that works, so our economy is still going to remain a good economy. That is why we invest so heavily in rail, public transport and road. When the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen said from this pulpit today that the government is not betting on rail and not betting on public transport, it is today's political grievances. The government is very heavy on transportation. Over 2 billion. kr in increase in relation to the red-green government is a big bet. And when the government goes in for the state to take 50 pst. of the costs of public transport in cities, there is far more than the Snorre Serigstad Valen, SV and the red-green managed to achieve when they were in government. Finally, it is at the end of the days when transport projects were balancing in the budgetary procedure in the late hours of the night. Now the infrastructure fund has risen to 70 billion. kr, there is a significant annual return on what is to be ploughed into transport investments in order to have a predictable portfolio for the development of projects of the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4137	What is to bet on knowledge? Is it increasing research appropriations? Is it hiring more teachers? Is there a focus on vocational training and prevention of non-response, early work in kindergarten and small school, or is there more focus on basic skills in working life, adult education, folk colleges, doctoral degrees? The answer, of course, is that we have to do all this and much more. For Education-Norway is so much, Knowledge-Norway is so diverse. The Council of State, Røe Isaksen, seemed almost offended in the change in line with the fact that some dared to criticise his draft budget, that some dared to call for the Right Professional League, and that some pointed out unilateral efforts at continuing and continuing education and thus little effort at school. He has to be almost familiar with it if the government is to continue to provide such budgets. Continuing training is increasing rapidly and has a unanimous decline in the back. But when the minister looked at the degrees choosing to bet everything on one card, he has to rely on criticism. For everything else, priority will then be given to early work, teacher's density, professionalism, non-response measures, etc. A broad approach to competence and education is fundamental if we are to achieve our ambitious goals. Or to quote what one of our capable researchers, Jørn Rattsø, said last Friday on the occasion of the Ministry of Knowledge's 200th anniversary, when he was to explain the success of School-Norway: ‘It is not a narrow elite that supports the breadth and amount of societal development.’ So some words about something that gets a little bit of little attention, even that's the government's main bet. I want to talk about those who train the teacher. The higher education sector has the primary responsibility for this task. International research is invested in this budget, in business research and in elite research. But those who are set to train/educate and further train the teacher will get nothing more. Teacher training has been through two major reforms in recent years. New 5 year master training shall be introduced in 2017. Thousands of teachers are in continuing training, and new professional requirements for teaching will further increase the need. Research needs to be strengthened, including in 1-teaching, more research and publication, and NB: they need to teach less. All of these institutions get little increase in their basic appropriations in this budget, so they can hire more people. Someone actually wants to go into negatives. In addition, there is a structural reform in place that will result in significant migration for many institutions around the country. The Workers' Party's alternative budget includes a earmarking of 90 million. to improve the quality of education, not least in teacher and professional training. There is no such commitment in the budget adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4157	The 2013 UNDP Human Development Report identified over 40 developing countries that have done better than expected in recent decades. It is naive to think that these countries have come out of poverty without a strategy for industrialisation and trade. Only through work and education can people permanently lift themselves out of poverty. I am pleased that the government has seen this and is proposing a significant increase of 290 million. SEK for industrial development, furnished, inter alia. to Norfund. But in our rapidly changing world, countries unfortunately also experience great setbacks. Today we see four humanitarian crises at level 3, the highest level defined by the United Nations. In Syria, Iraq, the Central African Republic and South Sudan, there are long-standing crises in which relief work has considerable underfinancing. Acute crises such as the Ebola epidemic have hit West Africa brutally. With this budget, the government shows that it is taking these crises seriously. As one of the largest humanitarian donors to Syria and neighbouring countries, Norway contributes more than 1 billion. kr this year, in addition to the contribution to the International Coalition against ISIL in Iraq. With the proposed increase of 424 million. kr for humanitarian aid, almost half a billion, provides the government with a more efficient management of existing and future crises. The aid budget is historically high — it was before the conciliation, and it was further strengthened after the conciliation. Now it's going to be 1 pst. of GNI. By concentrating assistance on both geography, themes and the introduction of twelve focus countries, the goal is to achieve greater results for those we have intended to help. In order to achieve the objective of eliminating extreme poverty, governments that take responsibility are needed. The Solberg government has seen this. 58 million of the world's children are out of school, and lack of education is a source of poverty and poor health. While the share of education in the aid budget was almost halved below the red-green, the funding for education has increased by more than half a billion to 2.35 billion. kr in this budget. Particular emphasis is placed on education for girls, children affected by war and conflict, and vocational education. There have been doubts as to whether global health should be prioritised when the focus on education is now so high. I am therefore pleased that the government in the budget is increasing global health efforts by 150 million. DKK to SEK 2.9 billion kr, in line with the will of Storting. I started by focusing on business as an engine for growth and employment. Together with the absence of war and conflict, access to education and health, this forms the basis for a sustainable and coherent development policy. This budget has recognised it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4174	In the last year we have seen a series of humanitarian crises taking place simultaneously: in Iraq, Syria, West Africa, Gaza and Ukraine – all examples in areas where the civil part of the people are suffering from illness, anguish and acts of violence. All these crises have created a historical need for assistance and urgent assistance for more people who do not have enough food, medicine or health care. When the truth is greater than in a long time, we have to give support there one needs the most. The Central Party has proposed, in its alternative budget, to increase the aid budget by about 1.2 billion. In addition to the government's original proposals, we propose to increase support for emergency aid and humanitarian aid by 500 million. kr. Some today have criticised the Central Party’s proposal to cut the EEA funds. The central party believes that Norway’s payments to EEA funds are not proportionate to the development of the Norwegian aid licenses. For the period 2009–2014, Poland received more than 50 times as much in EEA funds as e.g. Sierra Leone received Norwegian aid between 2009 and 2013. In Sierra Leone, large parts of the population live in absolute poverty. The same is not the case in Poland. Poland received more in EEA funds for the period 2009–2014 than the 80 beneficiary country combined in Norwegian assistance from 2009 to 2013. EEA funds are useful for many different, partly curative purposes. The Maritime Museum in Gdansk, the refurbishment of church bells in Budapest and underground garbage collection systems in Seville are fine, but Norway can tackle poverty more effectively in ways other than giving the way to such projects. Among other things, the European Communication showed that Norway’s payment of EEA funds is in support of cultural heritage and environmental projects, and a set of question marks on whether – and, if so, to what extent – it is in favour of the objective of living conditions. In its 2013 report, the National Audit Office writes that it is uncertain to what extent it can be demonstrated that the Norwegian EEA funds contribute to economic and social cohesion. The same question is asked by the Center Party. We look forward to gaining insight into the distribution of funds – so far it has been unthinkable to achieve. The leader of the municipal committee, Helge André Njåstad, said in his speech that my predictions about the municipal economy with a blue-blue government are a shame – I hope so! On NRK Sogn and Fjordane's websites, you can read about the spokesman from Right in Askvoll who wants to introduce property taxes in order to get the budget together. She refers to the tribal community economy. More than half of the municipalities in Sogn and Fjordane are considering increasing the tax on property – not because they want to, but because they have been given a perilous government framework and a failure in tax revenue as well. Then the county is cut to more than the bone, along with Northernland. No, it's supposed to be true that the municipalities don't get money for absolutely everything with this government and their supporting party, as Njåstad said, they get what we expect: demands for cutting and cutting to give room for tax credits to those who have the most. And the districts where the leader of the municipal committee should know the situation really get dizzy, in good tradition from the Right and the Advance Party and with the Christian People's Party and the Left as brake blocks that protest for all the world, but are on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4187	The budget we are debating today is what the government parties wanted last year to give direction to the social developments that the government wants. It doesn't promise well. In fact, the two cooperation parties from the centre have managed to move it all in a slightly more positive direction than the one that first existed, but it doesn't change the big picture. This is a budget for increasing differences between people and between regions — or as legendary jazz singer Billie Holiday expressed it in one of his most famous songs: «Them that's gothall get. They're not going to solve them. Fortunately, Billy's bitter experiences are few of us who have experienced. But the so-called Matthew effect – to which the famous jazz ballad refers – is that those who are rich, those who have more, while those who have less to deal with, have to expect to get even worse. It's this society we're now beginning to see the contours of -- a society that people in this country don't want. It's actually just 13 pst. of the population who believe that this is a budget that takes Norway in the right direction. And for my part of the country, the government's arrangement is bad news. One is the community structure, which clearly shifts resources from regions with challenging geography and scattered population to more populous strata. This means, for example: That closes almost 370 million. kr from the Nordic counties and to the densest populated regions in the south. We have also seen that the government's arrangement on the cuts in property taxes will give more to those who have the most from before. The real major assets in Norway are concentrated in some selected postal addresses in the capital region — and this is where tax relief comes, not in North Norway. The Workers' Party has promised a growth for the hospitals of 12 billion. kr during this four-year period. We believe that this is necessary in order to improve patient treatment, bet on ICT, modern medical devices and time-consuming hospital construction across the country. And we've added 3 billion. kr in addition to the hospitals in our alternative budget for 2015. The right went to the elections to raise hospitals by at least the same amount, but in this year's budget you go the opposite way: you weaken the sector with a much lower growth than you promised, and transfer resources from public hospitals to private commercial actors through so-called free treatment choices. There is a terrible policy, not least for those parts of the country where good public hospitals are crucial for providing equivalent health services. The government's budget is a pure recipe for taking it out before that, but alas, so unfair Matthew effect. Unfortunately, this budget gives Billie Holiday the right: «Them that's gothall get. They're not going to solve them."
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4206	How many magnification representatives in this room know how many books four eggs can hold without crushing? I didn't know, but there are children in the kindergarten in Farsund. 60 books, they say, because they've been researching with the research facility. A few days ago, we were able to read in the Friend of the Fatherland that the Alcoa Foundation will contribute to the School and kindergarten knowledge promise. They went 3.3 million. kr to the Swedish Research Factory. The funds shall be used for two projects, one in the Sea of Lake Meuse and one in Farsund, where five-year-old kindergarten children are given the opportunity to taste research and experiment with good guidance. Resources shall also be used for the training and retraining of staff. I agree with the municipal head of Tore Haus in the municipality of Farsund that it is great when business will contribute to the School and kindergarten knowledge promise. Building the knowledge society is one of the most important areas of activity of this government. It applies from kindergarten to university. There is particular reason to note that the government is now adding up on the real science page, including. Twenty million. kr for real-time vocational schools. We know that strengthening real-time skills is important in order for more students to have a good transition from primary to secondary education and for the completion of secondary education, and indeed also for the completion of higher education. Many students and students are striving with these subjects, and therefore the government has also announced that a new real science strategy will be launched in 2015, which will help raise the overall level of competence in real science. We also see that we need more teachers in real science. It takes this government into account, with – and precisely – a historical commitment to continuing education. A total of 1,035.6 million is proposed. kr for further training of teachers. In 2013, the previous government spent 340 million. kr. So this government has increased the appropriation by a total of 695 million. kr only in the last year. I am pleased that the four cooperation parties are united in prioritising school, education and research and show a clear willingness to give priority to actions that promote knowledge and skills development. This is how we equip Norway for the future — for the benefit of individuals and for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4221	When I went home from Kiwi the other day, I noticed the slogan, which was to read on one side of my shopping bag: «Let's have a penny here and a penny there!» – I understood that a lot of heads eventually become a large sum. Without knowing it, the communication people at Kiwi have inspired the government to make a big effort, that is, the big split layer – a real crowd to make the rich even a little richer. If what the government sees going on, our regular contributions are going to be NOK 1.50 per bag every time we shop, making the sum $1,250,000, or $1.25 billion. kr, at the end of the year. One penny here and one penny there has turned into something like moons, like the rest of the state budget: each of them might not mean the little cuts in the bets of the people's world, but together it's almost 140 million. kr. I can also take a cut in the car bump for the disabled, who have been tested to date, to get out of a socially isolated person. In the big context, maybe it's not 50 million. Nor do all the worlds, but there are important benefits for those who do not live in abundance – for they are wealth taxes a completely utopian issue. But with this state budget, we're given the opportunity to give a great gift that we're sending to those of our society as the best in it. The bag charge will cover about one third of the property tax bill in the budget agreement, which is the same as the part of the cut that goes to the 0.1 pst. Richest. It includes those who simply don't get the cost of stretching. $1.25 a.m. SEK divided by five million inhabitants is NOK 250. That is what this budgetary agreement states that each of us — old and young — should contribute through the fees on shopping bags. Distributed over a year, we may not talk about the big sums – it's even less than the tax-free people most get with the Progress Party in government – but there's something we have to pay every time we're in the store, because it was so important for the government parties to spend the big money on the big assets. Words such as ‘pleasure layers’ and ‘dugnad’ sound well in the Norwegian folkeschela. It's about setting up, taking a roof when it needs to. It's e.g. so many will say that we built the country after the war. That's what we do to make society better for each other, to keep the schoolroom alive, or to make the playground a little more fun for the kids -- not to mention the world's greatest talent: the annual TV action. With new ideas and better solutions, the split layer and the hard work, on the other hand, have been something that the broad team of the people should join together to help them get privileged. It says to see what kind of enthusiasm the Norwegian people will take to the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4231	We get to hope that the enthusiasm the people had as they threw the previous government out of the offices will last at least for a few periods to come. The government has promoted a budget that solves important tasks today and equips Norway for years to come. The Left and Christian People's Party have influenced the budget in important areas, at the same time the main action of the Right and the Advance Party is firm. At the same time, I have followed the opposition and, in particular, the Workers' Party, with great wonder in the debates of the autumn and in today's debate, in particular the Declaration of Love of the Workers' Party for the Great Cities. There's no way what's now going to be done by big bet. But what did the Workers' Party do for the big cities when they themselves were in government? The truth is that the Workers' Party left behind a great unmet need for, among other things. means of public transport in metropolitan areas. The truth is that the Workers' Party left itself a lag in the housing structure. The working party did little in position, but made great promises in opposition. Airy promises are exactly what the big cities don't need. Let me use collective action as an example. This government is investing heavily in public transport and rail. Green urban development comes as a result of concrete policies followed over several years. When the Workers' Party now suddenly promises money for a number of projects without saying anything about when they want to implement them, it appears to be good wishes. Then it doesn't help much to add 1 billion. kr on the table. When they ruled, the Workers’ Party voted in favour of a 50 p.m. government participation. financing of large collective commitments in cities. Now they expect us to believe them that they want to contribute 70 pst. When they in their time voted 50 pst. We're aiming to show in practice what we want, even when we're in position. That's why we've now been in favour of a state funding of just 50 pst. for collective action in the big cities. There is no doubt that in the big cities you will also be able to find greater social differences. Some social differences can be balanced through both school and work, but some social challenges need to be addressed at several levels at the same time. That is why I believe that some of the best measures this government and the cooperation parties are doing are precisely for those who do not have the strongest voice, namely the children. We know that in a big city, such a voice can quickly be completely gone. That is why I am pleased that we are strengthening measures against child poverty, strengthening municipal child protection and strengthening the prevention work among young people. Now I look forward to starting work on implementing the plans, and what this government promises, it will also keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4249	Former mayor and now councillor Warloe from Right said in clear order that the government looked at the edges as a staple and loot, and that the bet had to come in central lines where people offered. This was repeated by the Virgin, who is the leader of the Right in Sogn and Fjordane, that Warloe had as great a troubling as the "some cat had dragged in"—he about it. So what's the fasit of my state, of the Right and the Advance Party of the Government? Sogn and Fjordane will cut about 250 million in a five-year period. if the Right and Advance Party had obtained their will in the county. To put this in perspective: if we cut road maintenance investments, halve the number of districts, cut the cultural budget, and lay down four further schools – yes, then we approach one third of these cutlets. Right-wing representative Lødemel has called it unfair on several occasions that we have received so much before – in other words, it is fair that we should have so much cut now. If the Progress Party and the Right Party work to improve the conditions for the inhabitants, this was at least a complete failure. There was an additional $18 million. kr i k cut. Fortunately, we have a minority government, and we are in agreement with the representative of the KRP, who said that the Christian People's Party and the Left made a poor budget better. Many of the petty cuts have been reversed, yet the great budget winner is the billionaires, and there are relatively few of them in Sogn and Fjordane. What about the government's means of creating new jobs and taking care of existing ones, are we budget winners here? – No, there is a further reduction in regional development funds, which the Labour Party has invested 300 million. kr in increments here. The innovation of Norway shall be reduced and centralised. The working party has put in a growth package, a forest effort, resources for agriculture, a whitefish package, stock research, a maritime value-creating programme – and it is a climate action budget where we celebrate the government's increased investment in environmental technology. The municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane had almost 45 million. kr more with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. Right-wing representatives in the speech room today have talked about infrastructure measures as the most important thing in order to achieve growth in business. My county has, right, got 20 meters of new tunnel, but how will a county cut closer to 270 million? Can you afford to raise new loans to recover the interest compensation scheme? One must only be surprised. Does the government see the consequences of what they're doing, or is it a misguided policy? Maybe Warloe just said what Right actually meant, and which is now being implemented in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4264	The Labour Party has today criticised the government's climate and environmental policy from this pulpit. But the fact is that the budget from the government and the budgetary agreement now makes us adopt the greenest budget of the times in the United Kingdom – as opposed to what the Workers' Party received for its eight years. With this budget, we start the transition to the low-emission society. This is absolutely necessary both to achieve our common climate targets and to secure Norwegian jobs for the future. Earlier today, the representative of Terje Aasland criticised the government's climate action and felt that industry would have a better incentive to participate in the green shift with the Workers' Party's alternative budget. But the pace shift in climate policy is in progress. Politically, one of the most important things we can do is to contribute to making it pay to choose green. Industry and business must have good incentives to participate in the green shift. That is why we provide tax incentives for wind power and small power, we equip Enova and Innovation Norway to promote more climate and environmental technologies, we continue and expand the tax advantages of low- and zero-emission vehicles, we create better framework conditions for biogas for transport, and we have a record-breaking commitment to public transport and rail – to mention something. The overall budget climate profile is 4.2 billion. kr – it is a record bet. The criticism of Aasland's representative is becoming less credible, all the time when the Workers' Party never took advantage of the opportunity to start the green shift when they themselves were in government. For example, when we proposed that the state should cover 50 pst. by large collective projects in cities, the red-green government voted it down. Now we deliver. As the Christian People's Party would make it more attractive to buy an environmentally friendly car in 2009, the red-green government considered that there is already a significant environmental premium in the Norwegian charging system. Now, they are proposing easy charging for hybrid cars – things have obviously changed in opposition – while we deliver on both this and the electric car policy in our budget. As we wanted to strengthen the climate technology fund in addition to the climate agreement, the red-greens voted it down. Now we deliver. When the bourgeois parties put forward a proposal for a green tax shift in the last period, the red-greens voted it down and called it something strange. Now we are in the process of delivering. I find it strange that the working party is so much more climate-friendly and environmentally friendly in opposition than they are in position. It's great and nice to put down a climate panel and to think up and new in the opposition. But to criticize the government for getting to things The Labour Party obviously agrees now, but never succeeded in itself, becomes something hollow. You have to be judged for what you deliver from results, not what you deliver when you don't have the power to carry out. There is no doubt that what gives the most incentive for business to be involved in the green shift is green policies that are actually implemented – not green words in an alternative state budget from a party that never delivered when they had the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4279	We can now proudly present a budget with a strong commitment to anti-competitive measures, which are very important to ensure continuous growth in Norway. New industries need to take over, and we are responsible for facilitating safe jobs. The region from which I come, North Hordland, is a crown example of the result of the oil adventure, where the average income in recent years has been high and where the average level of education has been low. What we can see now is that oil, which gave opportunities to everyone, will give rise to challenges for many. We need investment and business start-ups – and it needs to be stimulated. It's about knowledge. It's about research and innovation. It's about simplification and red tape. And last – but not least – it's about transportation, which, with the 2015 budget, has been given a historic boost. This gives a clear and clear answer to what we in the Right and the Cooperation Party think is the proper management of the oil money. For the first time in ten years, a budget is provided that actually collects the maintenance allowance. This budget will contribute to safer and faster travel – we are one step closer to Norway getting the infrastructure for public transport that we need today and in the future. But we also have a newer type of infrastructure than road: we've got a society that requires access to and a good future for the digital network. Facilitating societal use of ICT and high levels of participation in society are fundamental. The government has started an important effort to ensure the efficient deployment of high-speed broadband to all parts of the country, but we need a change of attitude to get it done. This isn't just about government money, it's about better organisation and role understanding, so that we can achieve the goal together. I look forward to the further work and – not least – cooperation on a holistic infrastructure development in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4294	Through the debate that has now taken place, we have repeatedly received right-wing claims about the social nature of the state budget of the year, with the tax profile chosen by the government. The largest tax haven has gone to those who create jobs and have a wealth of construction, tools and cranes, but who by the opposition are presented as having the most of them. I, who comes from the West, from the Sunnmaere, where a company owned by neighbors and acquaintances, see that they are among the foremost when the equations are made public in the media. At the same time, we know that their property consists mainly of cranes, welding equipment and equipment for building ships or furniture. These locally owned enterprises have neighbours owned by foreign investors who completely escape this extra tax. Instead, they get paid an extra exchange, which the red-green obviously seems to be fine. We don't meet these at the store or at the cinema, as we meet local owners of businesses that we talk to about tomorrow's challenges. We see that our neighbours, who are local owners, are busy with the companies and avoid taking money out of them – to build rocks on rocks, as their parents did. We who are close to these, do not understand and accept that Norwegian owners should be forced to charge million – which weakens jobs – rather than be able to use them for the further development of businesses. These local, active owners are showing respect because they have built up businesses by being naked and having very long working days. When we then know that the alternative to the state budget that has been negotiated, for example, the Labour Party proposal is, with a tax tightening of 14 billion. kr, they can all, most of them realize that there won't be many jobs of such thinking. This is the most important challenge in the future: we are entering a new era, where mainland Norway must increasingly stand on its own and build on a Velferds Norway through new jobs – jobs that we do not know the content of today. We cannot do that by taking the resources from those who have shown that they can create jobs. Still, it is not the most important thing to participate in the distribution. The most important thing is to have a job. This is fortunate to see this blue government, along with its partners. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4311	We must create before we can share, and even if a financial debate has to mention billions, this is primarily about people. Good life and society are created from below, and the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand together today for a budgetary settlement that builds the knowledge society and at the same time strengthens Norwegian competitiveness. If Norway is still to be one of the world’s best countries to live in, it is important that we, as politicians, provide safe conditions for the future that can once again provide us with safe jobs. We have a special cost challenge, which weakens Norwegian-led jobs in international competition. At the same time, we should improve international competitiveness, innovation and education. These are challenges today, and they will be even stronger as we will in the future stand up in industries where competition is tougher and the need for professional skills becomes absolutely central. I would therefore like to promote the professions and the many skilled skilled workers who are going to continue to grow in Norway. The SSB has forecasts that we will be missing about 134 000 relevant professional letters in 2030. This challenge is taking the bourgeois parties seriously. In just one year, we have strengthened the grant to get apprentices into companies with NOK 7 500 per contract. In comparison, the rate was almost unchanged under the red-green priorities, with a small exception for the 2009 financial package. You should measure what you do in position. As of 2014, the practical letter scheme has been extended by 10 million. kr, the exchange model with 5 mill. kr, the housing arrangement of 4 mills. SEK, the recruitment of enterprises with 20 million. kr, the professional correction of 12 million EUA. kr. In addition, the latter has provided 900 more teachers in the system for the professional correction of the common subjects. And then we're going to add 8 million. to the professional network of vocational teachers between schools and businesses, and at the top comes our contribution to the continuing training of teachers. So we've increased from 1,500 in 2013 to over 5,000 teachers in 2015. Let's not forget that we've also increased from 100 to 500 places in the principal's school. Many people today have emphasised that politics is a priority, and I will give them right in it. The first priority is to strengthen the knowledge society and ensure Norwegian competitiveness. Speaking of priority, it seems that the opposition has challenges in prioritising what is wrong, because they say that we are both taking Norway in the wrong direction, and that we are not doing it quickly enough. So we're not going to take Norway in the wrong direction fast enough. It's late now, but one thing I've learned. The financial debate can be entertaining.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4326	I'm not going to spend time refuting the representative Heggø's horror propaganda and artful use of quotations, because I'm sure that this government will deliver a policy that is well adapted to Sogn and Fjordane and the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane, and history will show it. It has been exciting to follow the debate here today. For the first time, a debate on the State budget in Stortinget is based on a fully-fledged blue-blue state budget that has been further worked on through negotiations with the Cooperation Party. The process of negotiating between these four parties has probably been required. But we have had an open and democratic debate on one of the most important governance tools in society, namely the state budget. It honors both the government parties and the cooperation parties. It has looked as if both the media and some of the parties have actually forgotten that we are now back to the most common and ordinary way of dealing with the state budget, namely that a minority government will negotiate in port a government budget it has submitted. Once the government has closed down with this, there is one saying both for the government party and for the cooperation party, and they are also the political winners in common. We must not forget that when the various committees are dealing with their budgets. We must create before we can share. That is a good example of this budget. We need to establish an economic framework that facilitates value creation and increase competitiveness. That is a good example of this budget. The community is created from below, and we have to let go of all good forces. That is also a good example of this budget. There are many good things in this budget. We've had a historic commitment to society, school and education, health and well-being. I particularly appreciate the extensive efforts made in the field of transport with record-sized loops both for highways and highways and for road maintenance. An extensive commitment to tunnel protection on the county roads along with the continuation of interest-rate compensation schemes will give state politicians, not least in my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, far better chance of investing in transport than the former red-green government gained. It will be marked. In the financial setting, it was also shown that the government would come back with an assessment of a holiday settlement scheme for the county roads in the municipality's 2016 proposal. It will be a very important matter for my home country, which together with many other states wants to build a fixed road link to replace the ferry. For many small power builders, an increase in the entry point for land interest tax from 5 to 10 MW is very prolonged. It was an important matter for the Right and the Advance Party in the previous period, and it was very happy to see that the government is complying with this point in the government statement already in the first budget created. This budget equips Norway for the future, and it will also be a good starting point for further work on this budget and on the forthcoming budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4341	For the Christian People's Party, it has, among other things, have been important in providing this State budget with a more social profile both nationally and internationally, and in providing better solutions for families and not least for vulnerable groups of children and young people. We think we have succeeded. We've got a warmer and more family-friendly budget. The Christian People's Party has also managed to set some clear clues. We should have gotten even more, but we're glad that in the budgetary agreement we've now had, we've been with and moved the government's policy towards the center. In the budget for the coming year, the cooperation parties have allocated 200 million. kr to more teachers in 1–4. class. There is an important effort for early school effort, so that teachers get more time for each individual student. It will make it easier to adapt education to the needs of students, because there is very good evidence that higher teacher density in early school years can be crucial to help students to better solve their problems there and then, rather than having to struggle with them for the rest of school time. It's about facilitating mastering and good learning experiences, and in the long run I'm not in doubt that this will contribute to fewer drop-outs and that more complete the 12-year school run. In the higher education and university sectors, we are also very pleased that the budget agreement provided for 100 new scholarship positions. The tuition fee for foreign students was removed, and 500 more student homes are allocated. The fact that the three new universities, Stavanger, Agder and Nordland, also got 50 new scholarship positions together, is a start on the restoration of what I would call the crooked relationship that has existed in the allocation of research funds between the new and established universities. In the Christian People's Party, we are also pleased that together with the other three cooperation parties, we have taken a completely new action against bullying, talk about bullying, a national low-threshold offer against bullying directed by the Blue Cross in Kristiansand. The Christian People's Party is pleased that in the next year's budget there will also be 5 million. to the fight against antisemitism. These are funds specifically intended for the information and education of children and young people. Studies carried out by the Holocaust Centre here in Oslo among school students in this part of the country can tell that there are no groups of children in Norway who are as severely discriminated against as Jews. Antisemitism is on the rise in large parts of Europe. It is important to respond and prevent with targeted actions that can contribute to the necessary knowledge and good attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4354	The government provided a budget to solve important tasks today and to equip Norway for the future. The Budget Agreement of the Cooperation Party ensures and strengthens important efforts. The Christian People's Party and the Left have influenced the budget in important areas, while the main initiatives are firm. This means investing in the budget for knowledge, transport, health, police and preparedness. It is a good budget for Norway and a good budget for the South. Road betting has been mainly No. one in the South for a number of years, and finally we have a change of pace in this sector. The four-field road between Kristiansand and Stavanger is under planning. The bets are adapted to the Norwegian economy today, and start a necessary transition for the future. We know that the economic prospects for the future are characterised by lower oil revenues, more needy and less economically active. The main budget initiatives will facilitate increased productivity and continued growth in the Norwegian economy, so that new jobs can be created and well-being can be ensured. The work on making the public sector more efficient is well under way. Work on creating a more growth-enhancing and simpler tax system continues. It is worth working, saving, investing and acting environmentally friendly. Such a tax policy will have a positive impact on value creation and income over time. Norway can never be the cheapest, but we can be the best. It assumes that we have a school where children learn more and a university and higher education sector with several world-class environments. This budget is an important step towards the knowledge society. We improve well-being by creating the patient’s health service with increased quality and reduced waiting time for treatment. We strengthen the social security network by giving priority to drugs and mental health. The main contribution to the income of the country is the tax income of households and businesses. It is important for the government that taxpayers’ money is used in the most efficient way possible, and it is important to facilitate the setting up of framework conditions for businesses to choose to invest in Norway. In order for Norway to continue to be one of the world’s best countries to live in, it is important that we spend the great money on the right things and equip the country for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4375	I am pleased that the government in the draft budget is following the objectives and assumptions of the current long-term defence plan. The real growth in the defence budget is significant. The increase of almost 1.5 billion. kr represents a bet we haven't had on a similar level since the last time we had a bourgeois government by power. The budget follows up the acquisition of fighter aircraft and the development of the Joint Strike Missile with an additional funding, in order to avoid this affecting other parts of the Defense. Increases in the defence framework strengthen operational activity and preparedness in all defence sectors and in the Home Office. The defence sector faces significant challenges. This will require difficult choices and priorities in the future. At the turn of the government, the Minister of Defence announced openness and honesty about the challenges facing the defence. We have had a more open debate on whether we have a defence with sufficient stamina and depth in the structures – issues that have not previously been sufficiently prioritised. This also forms the back cover for the trade-military investigation that the head of defence was commissioned to carry out in the autumn. The professional military council of the Defence Manager provides an important basis for the next long-term plan for the defence sector and comes during a period when the security policy situation in Norway has changed. Although the defence budget in 2015 has a significant real increase, the budget is at the same time marked by soberness and clear priorities. I want to commend the Secretary of Defense's openness also in terms of the government's debureaucratic and efficiency reform. It implies an increased efficiency requirement that is demanding for the defence sector. It is important that we achieve a real balance between defence sector appropriations, structure and tasks when difficult and demanding priorities will have to be made for the future. I also want to bring up the government's Northern Region bet. The government is proposing north-area measures for nearly 3 billion. kr in the State budget for 2015. This is an increase of well over half a billion. It is the people in the north who see best the possibilities, who have the knowledge, the momentum and the executive power. Good knowledge environments have been developed, and with the government’s commitment, the time has come for further development – and to make it easier for people to create new jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4404	Let me congratulate you on your good work in chess last night. It wasn't the president's fault that Norway didn't beat the world champion! Then I have to bring up the SV's proposal for a framework as well as the distributed proposals, which in case of an incursion are not included in the additional option. It is SV's incurrence, but we want these proposals to be voted on – with the exception of proposal No. 27. That's what they say. It has been exciting to follow the debate on the taxes on wealth today, especially when it has been interesting to follow the Right. In the past, we have heard that the wealth tax is a threat to Norwegian jobs, that we should cut or even remove the property tax, both to facilitate more Norwegian jobs and not to threaten the jobs that are already here. Few political allegations have been more strongly refuted in the public debate in recent years than the rhetoric of the Right around the wealth tax. Now there's a new reason why we're going to cut it, and that's Right's the concern for state ownership, Norwegian ownership and local ownership. At the same time, the importance of Norwegian ownership of production in Norway cannot be argued by a fiscal figure who argues to shift production out of Norway. And at least you cannot teach other parties in the importance of Norwegian ownership while even in the state budget we are discussing, preparing the sale of Norwegian ownership by the time. There's been a lot of talk about what's historic in this state budget. It is a historic uplift for one and the other – and then we can discuss whether it really is such a very big and very historic uplift – but one thing that is historic with this state budget is the historic break with the idea of Norwegian ownership of production. Profitable enterprises are to be sold for no other reason than ideology. The right has rotted into a rhetorical backyard where they have to say that it is more positive that the Communist Party in China owns Norwegian industry than that the Norwegian State does. Because if the Norwegian State does, the market is getting tired. The Progress Party has also argued strongly for the wealth tax today, but for a slightly different reason, and that is because for the first time perhaps the Progress Party has never used the word "people most" in a budget debate in the Storting. Every time the Progress Party has been asked about something related to the ‘most people’ in today’s debate, the answer that is heard is as if they come from the market department of a multinational bank. There are some reflections about the macro image and how bad the property tax is for the owner class. I don't think that's what the leaders of the Advance Party had in mind when they voted in the Advance Party. I think, for example, That is why we have received this evening a poll showing a purely majority for the Workers' Party, SV and Red. That's probably not what Finance Minister Siv Jensen had in mind when she put out her state budget, but I think that's what you get when you talk about the interests of the upper class in spite of the interests of your own voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4421	It is much in the coming year that is historically joyful and joyful historical if we are to believe Prime Minister Erna Solberg or parliamentary leader Trond Helleland in the Right. All these historically joyous increases and joyful historical events are found in historically good cooperation and in a number of historical increases. As the representative Hagesetter said, we have to get both in bag and in bag. The government wants to tell the story of the brave state councils that moved in and conquered Norway, and then to do it historically well. Among these 18 brave state councils we find the representative of historical research, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. On the other hand, he has not seen another historical representative of modern conservatism, who said, 'The left hand knows what the right hand is doing.' Everyone knows that you're doing something on one side of the fraction line, you have to do the same thing on the other side. Historical increases are a bit like a Greek tragedy, when the historical research budget is streamlined so that NTNU goes into minus: x = -11.4 million. kr. Today, however, I understand that NTNU must, after all, achieve historical competitiveness through historical simplification and improvement. Personally, I have a slightly different view of what is and deserve the term ‘historic’. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, take the smoke law of the previous bourgeois government, or the accession of the previous bourgeois government when it left. It was historical in its own way. Equality of Love: Against conservative moralism, we win with common marriage law. Childcare facilities for everyone, a family boost, equality between men and women was an important step to give more children someone to play with. Nevertheless, it is a little right, because something is actually historic, and it is the Progress Party's first hand-held government budget and first-born tax children, the plastic bag tax, introduced by the Progress Party, former Anders Langes Parti, for a strong reduction in taxes, taxes and public intervention. But don't be afraid! There's still time to actually make history, and if you're really on, there's still an opportunity to beat the popularity of the previous bourgeois government. Let me congratulate the government and wish them the best of luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4434	This budget represents a change of course in policy, as we promised before the elections last year. More emphasis is placed on value creation and increased competitiveness, because we need to create before we can share. The opposition is, as expected, not satisfied. They talk down the budget as best they can, and complain that the process has taken too long. More people I've talked to, on the other hand, think it's been nice with a more open budgetary process than what we experienced in the years of red-green majority. Proposals and recordings have been discussed in the public space before the final adoption of the budget. It has resulted in power being back in the Storting, where it belongs, and not in the closed rooms, where only LO and the red-green friends have access. The budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left is a result of a good democratic process. All four parties have been given their mark on the budget and are aware of their own party political priorities. The government is concerned that everyone with the ability to work and the desire to work will come to work. It's worth your while to work. That is why there is a strategy for such a development in this budget. When we dealt with the big message Freedom and Equal Opportunities earlier this year, this work was one of the important issues. Unfortunately, some young people with disabilities are still offered disability benefits in 18-year-old Nav. We can't be aware of that. Everything has to be tested first. More attention needs to be paid to the organisation, follow-up and close cooperation with employers, so that they dare to hire people with disabilities. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the labour market framework was reinforced by 75.8 million. NOK, which gives 500 more places for people with disabilities and 200 more places with permanent work. This budget provides more resources for interpreting services and strengthens the functional assistance system so that more people can be included in that mechanism. The development of speech recognition programmes in Norway has finally been allocated a total of 13 million. kr. These reinforcements help more people to get to work. It is important both in terms of income and in terms of networks and social arenas. In order to get more people to work, we need not only good policies, but also a working life where we focus on what each person can do, and not look blindly at the constraints. The Prime Minister probably had this in mind when, in her new year, she encouraged employers and businesses to share social responsibility by hiring more people with holes in the CV. It's about trying out new systems, creating a more flexible working life, seeing the individual person and not letting the systems stand in the way of the good solutions. And maybe we politicians across the political divides should be better off leaving some principles behind and getting rid of good ideas and forces in the work of including as much as possible in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4451	The budgetary agreement between the government party and the supporting party Left and Christian People's Party has made an already crippled hospital budget even worse. The Christian People's Party and the Left negotiated a hospital coup of about 100 million. kr by increasing the efficiency requirement for healthcare professionals. The hospital economy is thus even further away from what Right promised in the election campaign. High efficiency requirements combined with high levels of centralisation and low political governance will continue the trend with the closure of emergency reception facilities in the District of Norway. The budget agreement in the UK shows the health priorities of the four parties. Unfortunately, patient care and preparedness are not among these. With this government budget, the conversion of the Norwegian health system begins – away from the values built-up over generations. The principle of a strong public health system that provides security of health and preparedness wherever a cage, or whoever is, is at risk. The government believes that the production of welfare services does not differ from the production of other goods and services, but the center party just means it. The Christian People's Party and the Left, which today appears naked with the blue-blue government's health effort, has just enough money in the budget agreement for some important health issues, but it does not change the direction. When care for the elderly in Norway today is such that a break in human rights, the solution is not to show that the elderly will be ‘shoppers’ of health services and care in a private market. The government says they should develop patients' health care. That's wrong. The administration shall develop the healthcare services of patients with a high degree of resources. In the budget, money is set aside for the free treatment options scheme. The proposal has been met with great resistance. Of many negative hearing aids, Norwegian Nurses' Association. They believe that free treatment options will change health care priorities by shifting resource use and treatment towards the treatment of easier suffering and away from patients with long-term and complex needs. They fear that public hospitals will be lost for the necessary skills and that the education sector will have problems in facilitating the necessary practices in an increasingly fragmented service. They fear that the proposal will be able to change the hospital structure and supply and contribute to the centralisation of emergency preparedness. Norwegian Nursing Association writes that free treatment options will involve a level of private commercial service provision that one has not previously seen in the Norwegian health service. These are strong words, and it's about to become a reality because the Christian People's Party and the Left break their own will. Free treatment options are now starting for patients with drug and psychiatric disorders in spite of the fact that Norwegian Psychologists’ association warns against free treatment options ‘at least in the area of mental health and the TSB’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4462	Several representatives from the Right and the Advance Party have said today that a good budget has become even better after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Even the knowledge minister stressed this in a line change with me earlier this evening – a strange statement, because I assume there was no play budget government submitted on 8 October. However, they did not put forward the budget they considered to be the best thing for the country. I am pleased that even the government parties today are clear that the Left and Christian People's Party have got a budget that went in the wrong direction, on a slightly better course. I would like to say a few words about one of the points where the government tried to take Norway in the wrong direction, and an area that means enormously too many: voluntary sector. The voluntary sector has been important to Norway throughout the post-war period, it has been an important contributor to the development of our country, and many have made our society both richer and warmer. It is a good addition to public services, it is innovative and has important voices in the societal debate. For this reason, the Workers' Party supports voluntary action, and until the government's proposals for the state budget were presented, I thought that volunteering was also important to the government. I have long since come out of the census of how many times the prime minister and others from the blue-blue government have talked about the importance of volunteering. But one thing is what they're saying, something quite different is what they're actually doing. The government is proposing a series of cuts in the voluntary sector. One of the hardest was to cut $40 million. kr at the study associations, without further explanation in the proposition. In retrospect, we have heard that large cuts would ensure voluntary sector independence and credibility. The blues therefore believe that the 470 member organisations in the study associations and adult training today are not independent, nor are they credible. Obviously, here we live on different planets, because this doesn't make sense, nor how large and destructive cuts would help to achieve the goal. Here we talk about the country's voluntary cultural and amateur theatre environment, youth teams, theatre groups, leisure clubs, choirs, corps, dance – and there are also the student associations of the disabled. And these are just some of them. We're talking about offers that 500,000 Norwegians need and enjoy this year, i.e. 10 pst. of the population of Norway. The government said it was going to land in a different direction. It'll take care of it. This has been noted by the volunteer. Me and everyone else who is concerned with volunteering have every reason to send a big and warm thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party that has managed to prevent many of the worst cuts. Unfortunately, some still remain.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4473	We no longer have a local and regional department. It's marked on more than the State Council's name tag. The policy is dramatically changed, and it is not in the favour of the districts. Unfortunately, only minor changes were made as a result of the budgetary conciliation. An overall increase has expressed the objective of maintaining the settlement throughout the country, but the majority are now weakening the means of success. For the current year in the 2014 budget, the regional policy instruments have been substantially cut and the cut has been reinforced for the next year. Resources for regional development through the county are cut by 450 million. kr over 2 years. In addition, travel life initiatives, fisheries, agriculture, broadband and Innovation Norway will be cut, just to name a few. The cut is justified by increased commitment to transport, but is not accompanied by sufficient appropriations. The center part has added 400 million. in increased appropriations for the investment and maintenance of the county roads. One of the most dramatic cuts is cut at one third of total appropriations for regional development in relation to the level from the time the Central Party entered the government. Innovation Norway cooperates with the counties on regional development measures and manages approx. half of the appropriations. In the budget review, it is noted that the Innovation Norway loan and guarantee scheme has been evaluated. The evaluation shows that the low-risk regional loans are socio-economically profitable and play an important role in regions with a lack of supply from local and regional banks. Despite the government's positive mention of the state's work on regional development, it was dramatically cut. Is it cut because the government does not want to provide economically weak areas with growth and development, or is it such that depopulation of district municipalities is the goal? At least that will be the consequence. The Central Party is proposing $600 million. extra DKK for grants to county councils for regional development. The government has also invested in a centralising redistribution of the framework of the municipal sector. In 2015, the impact of new keys on the allocation of appropriations to county councils comes. Sogn and Fjordane and Nordland lose more than 200 million. kr every more than five years. The centre batch shall provide additional means of loss compensation. In the transfer to municipalities, the growth grant is increased at the expense of municipalities with a decline in population. My last example is the government's hopeless handling of the 31 municipalities that thought they had been strengthened by the reduced employer's fee scheme. The entire gain is removed through cut in the frames. On the part of the Centre Party, we ask that this decision be reversed. Correction of the income framework of these municipalities must take place through discretionary means, in such a way that the municipality retains a substantial part of the effect of a reduced employer’s tax. In some of these municipalities, even doubles are drawn, both through frameworks and through discretionary means. At first I thought it was an accident at work, but since the Minister of State would not answer this today, I am now beginning to doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4484	In this advent time, I would like to draw the representatives' attention to a Christmas calendar, not any Christmas calendar, but more specifically Christmas in the Shoemakergate and Jon Blund. You know, he who had tonight's right. It's particularly good, not only because it's advent time, but also because the Children's Convention celebrates 25 years this year, and some of us, together with the president, participated in singing the Jon Blund song as part of the celebration of this. There are many reasons to draw attention to children’s rights: Children are given to us adults to get through their rights, childhood goes too fast, and a childhood without love also sets bad and difficult tracks into the adult world. That is why I am particularly pleased that there is a commitment to prevention. It costs too much for the people involved – but also for our society – to operate only for repair. It is good that the prevention work at the family protection offices is considerably strengthened. This comes at the top of the bet in 2014. So never before has there been any further effort on family protection in Norway. Our family protection offices do a good job of prevention, for example: in life conflicts. It is particularly important in working with families with children where there is violence and a high level of conflict. Domestic violence is harmful to children, whether they are subjected to violence or witnessed by violence. Family protection helps prevent the development of harmful behaviour and therefore prevents it in a number of areas of society, such as violence, intoxication and psychiatry. The unimaginable happens to children, even if we don't want to think about it. An important measure is therefore the establishment of the new grant scheme of 11,5 million. kr for the establishment and operation of measures that may increase the quality of life of children who have been subjected to violence. It is particularly important that these children experience increased mastery in everyday life and have the opportunity to process their experiences. Good and competent child protection is important for the rights of children, therefore this is also strengthened in the budget. In addition, we have launched a review of foster home care, set up a new legal committee to look at the Child Protection Act – including whether it should be attached to rights – and started a reorganization of child protection in order to create even better child protection, including for future generations. This budget solves important tasks today and equips Norway for the future. This is important, because we are not just going to adopt a budget for today; we are also going to create a future in which our children and grandchildren' rights are respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4497	When the Left presents its alternative state budget, there is a budget with a great deal of effort on knowledge, not least on research and higher education, where our budget goes up to a budget of about a million. 2 billion. kr over the original government proposal. In our budget, we have found room, among other things, to increase basic appropriations by 400 million. NOK 500 new scholarship positions, 100 new post doc positions, SEK 15 million. kr for the follow-up to the SHOT study and 1000 more student housing. Then, of course, we do not get through everything in the negotiations with the government parties. But the agreement involves a good knowledge budget, and I'm especially pleased that we've put in place 100 new scholarship positions, where 50 of these are going to go to UiS, UiA and UiN. These are badly needed recruitment positions and will contribute to a real boost for these universities. This is particularly important as from the very beginning the three universities have had lower funding than the established universities, and after the government presented its draft budget with an elite initiative where these universities are not included. I am also pleased that we have put in place 500 new student homes in conjunction with the government parties. There is a demand among interactions, and there is a complete dependence on getting more student homes, especially in the press areas, if students are to have a reasonable and good place to live. There are two very important breakthroughs that I want to mention in particular. Firstly, this study fee applies to foreign students and the proposed 80,5 million cut. kr. There is no majority on the Stortinget to deviate from the free principle, and I am pleased that this is now established in the budget and in the settlement that has been reached. Because we want the competence and diversity that these foreign students bring to Norway. From other countries that have introduced such a tuition fee, we see, first of all, that the number of foreign students is falling dramatically, and second, we see that in the long term it is also being opened to take school money from national students. With the budget agreement that is now on the table, we keep this door closed, and I expect that it is the free principle that is now on the basis of the rest of the period. The second thing I want to draw out is the reversal of the cut to the studios. The study federations represent a variety of offers — ranging from bunad broding to singing for young people with Down’s syndrome. The fact that these offers can be maintained means an infinite amount to some of those who take advantage of those offers, and that means a lot to us as a society. The study federations represent a broad view of knowledge, and it is of great importance – both for individuals and for us as society – that we can still embroider here in the country, that we can sing that blind people can make up, even if it does not lead to study points. [[President clubs]] So I'm very happy that we got it reversed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4510	What about the children's families? For the Christian People's Party, it is important that young families experience the possibility of flexibility and freedom of choice to organise their daily lives. Prioritisation of children and families is a safe investment for any society. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring that the financial instruments are in place. This issue of value is a high priority in our own draft budget. Many young children’s parents want more time with their own children and are aware of a time gap between working life and family life. For the Christian People's Party it was therefore important to have the everyday experience of families of different kinds in the minds of the negotiations with the Left, Right and Advance Party. The Christian People's Party will strengthen freedom of choice through concrete measures, both economic and capacity, but also measures with an organised social profile for families who need it. This will strengthen human capital in Norway for the future and have only positive sides. The budget agreement continues the cash support for 1-year-olds, which we had already increased from 2014, and we also ask the government to make it even more flexible and relevant to more people. The Christian People's Party has received an impact for 3,400 new kindergartens in 2015, which will reduce the queues. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left, has received a $51 million supplement. kr, which allows all 4- and 5-year-olds with low-income parents to have 20 hours free of charge during the week. The lump sum in the budget agreement has been increased to NOK 44 190. The government's original proposal for a new income requirement is not implemented. The government's proposal to cut off the children's supplement for exorcism could have hit hard, but the Christian People's Party is pleased that we have helped to remove it. In the budget we also strengthen the holiday offer to the Red Cross by 2 million. kr – to the priceless joy of many children. The budgetary agreement strengthens the protection of the state and the church family. It's going to add up to 50 million. kr, which provides new opportunities for preventive work. Municipal Child Protection is increased by 30 million. DKK, parents and children’s centres receive 35 million. kr, which saves five ideal parents and children's centers from closure. Plus 5 million is going to be right over there. kr for the recruitment of foster homes within the protection of children. The adoption aid is now linked to 1 G, making the amount predictable and cost-adjusted. Now I should have had time to mention the great efforts of the Christian People's Party for early work in primary school, but I don't have time for that. A society that's good for the kids is a society that's good for everyone. The main objective of the Christian People's Party is therefore a child-friendly society. This is reflected in a family-friendly ideology. That is why in the Christian People's Party we will continue to pursue a targeted policy in this area. This budget is a new and clear step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4543	Climate change is dangerous, unfair and already underway. Therefore, the Storting must show a far greater willingness to adopt an offensive policy in order to win in the fight against man-made climate change outside and at home. When discussing the correctness of the distribution of climate action, an assessment of the right behaviour between generations, between countries and between groups in countries can be made. My generation's high fossil energy consumption will hardly stand out as just for the kids of our children. And for the poorest countries, which have barely contributed to climate change, it must be bitter to know that other countries have been releasing large amounts of greenhouse gases for hundreds of years. The main cause of climate change is the use of fossil fuels. For Norway, it means more than conversion to an electric car. That means we have to slow off the offshore industry and reduce the rate of extraction of oil and gas. We have to let resources lie down. In Norway, this shift – this green shift – can take place without mass unemployment if we combine our financial muscles with the knowledge that exists in Norwegian business between professionals and engineers and other professionals who trust each other. Then we can build wind turbines on more yards than the ones we build on today. We can do that instead of drill rig jackets. It is not fate that has created a nation with more economic space and greater self-determination than most other countries have. There are repeated movements of people who have built the country – fishermen and peasants, together with social leaders, and organized workers in the countryside and in the city. We have secured public ownership of vital social interests and resources and created the Norwegian model, where duties and rights are distributed in solidarity. This model is seriously faithful now, and SV does not share the government's strong belief in market liberalism. SV will both share and create. SV will have safe fixed options that, by means of strong State involvement and business with visions, can develop climate work sites with special emphasis on renewable energy, transport and construction. SV wants to build Norway green. The government's climate statement is $4 billion. kr. The Socialist Left Party is proposing nearly 6 billion. increase the level of greening for climate purposes, as well as environmentally friendly changes in tax policy. We mean Norway has great climate responsibility because we are a rich and resource-rich country with high climate emissions per capita. It is for the vote to see that the government's proposals for the state budget are simply too high for environmental efforts, and that the government has safe governance against breaking the 2020 climate targets. We owe this to our grandchildren, we owe this to the poor people of the poor countries. We can if we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4563	There will be a large number of proposals to be voted on tonight, and I will comment on the position of the Greens on some of them. Firstly, the proposal on sustainable development indicators: there were many who barely believed their own eyes when they found that the government had removed the chapter on sustainable development indicators from the national budget, in particular since there is now a general public requirement and an established standard among both shareholders and other business sectors that sustainability indicators are included in annual reporting and planning. The Green Party has presented a Document 8 proposal together with the Workers' Party to further develop sustainability indicators. Because of this, we are going to vote against the budget agreement's proposal to further develop the reference to sustainable development in the national budget, because it has included a frenzy of 'green growth'. This ‘green growth’ is not necessarily a premise that takes account of the needs of sustainability indicators, and we are therefore in favour of another proposal. The Centre Party has submitted a proposal to ask the Government within the quota for the reception of refugees to give priority to seriously injured refugees. The main desire of the Greens is to give priority to both badly injured refugees and refugees with a special security need, to which we, as one of the world's richest countries, should have a chance, but so far we support the proposal of the Central Party. The cooperation parties have proposed to ask the government to set up a model of property tax exempting working capital from taxation. The Green Party has worked on a similar proposal because we recognise that the tax on wealth can be unlucky, and there is a need to explore a solution. We will therefore support the proposals of the cooperation parties in this area. Finally, SV has proposed to ask the government to reinstate the Directorate of Public Procurement Management and the ICT Department. This is a proposal that the Greens have in their alternative state budget, and we will therefore vote in favour of the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4576	After following this debate today, I note that there is a debate in which the opposition operates largely after digging very deeply in the rhetorical insert bag. The fact that the posts do not take the budget we are discussing does not seem to worry. There are many issues that are up in the debate, but I just get a little tired when I see how much attention something gets, and how little attention they might get to the most important issues, but that's not how we can steer the debate. The representative Aasrud tried to make culture the big issue. I have so much the same desire, because I think it's exciting to discuss it. She got a little response. It's not that strange, because what we're discussing here today is kind of what's not good in the budget, and the cultural budget has become very good, so it's not that much to discuss. Nevertheless, I registered some criticism. It's a little strange, because the Workers' Party, which year after year has been most concerned about telling them how much money they spend in the budget, and that increasing money makes everything much better in the cultural sector, is not very happy when it's now spent as much money as it's never been done on the cultural budget. So if it's the same scale that's still going to apply, it's at least a very good budget. It is also a budget in which we dare to make choices in the cultural sector, where we dare to target our efforts, and where we dare to trigger additional contributions from others other than the public. That makes us accused of being the Markets-Rights who have won over the Culture-Rights. No, it's simply Culture-Rights that are committed to ensuring good framework conditions for culture, for quality in culture. Then it's important that we take with us all the contributions, and especially those that go in addition to the public funds. The government will complete the planned change in the typing key. The VAT compensation for volunteering has achieved the objectives of the Workers' Party and has gone further by further regulation. The VAT compensation for sports facilities has not been cut, as the representative said. On the contrary, both deficiencies have been cleared in 2014 and a strengthening for 2015. In this context, it is important to point out that it is only once cut in the VAT compensation for sports facilities, and it was done by the previous government on the way out of the offices. This budget offers new opportunities for many. It gives young talents, whatever their background, an increased opportunity to develop their talent. We're proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4593	I was very pleased and very proud when the Right-Fremskritsparte government presented the first blue-blue state budget of Norway on 8 October. Finally, Norway had received a government budget where it really focused more on better roads, more on rail, better health, more on education and, not least, on taxation and taxation for most people, for business owners and for business. And – perhaps the most important thing – finally, it was really focused both on strengthening the work line and on getting people to work. Even after the hard negotiations with the Left and Christian People's Party, the budget was good. I have to admit that something unfortunately has become worse, but something has also improved, so the totality of the budget is in any case good. And perhaps the most important thing is that the profile, direction and change of course are fixed. In fact, for the first time in modern history, car and petrol taxes are being reduced. It's really something that most people are busy about, and most people want to earn. When critics criticise the government's draft budget, they look blind to the tax burden, but deliberately forget the tax component, because it has absolutely a social profile. In order to link regions, in order to strengthen business, in order to reduce travel time and the number of accidents, next year the government budget has a massive rise in traffic. Nevertheless, it has been claimed today in this room that the big shift in traffic did not come with this budget, but that it came in the NTP. It is true that there is a good level of ambition in NTP, but it is wrong to say that it is NTP itself that is a shift. NTP shows only plans and ambitions, and unfortunately no previous government has been able to meet the plans that have been in the NTPs. As a result, the state budget and the government’s ability to implement it are crucial. The right-wing Party Government does not only have ambitions to comply with the NTP plans, it wants to over-comply with the NTP plans by building more roadway and more track than is inherent in today’s NTP. Just to take railway as an example: the largest investment is now being made in Norway since the late 1800s. I also have to say that I am a little disappointed and a little surprised by the simple and almost cliché-like rhetoric about giving treasures to the rich. It's a rhetoric that repeats and repeats almost to the boring of all those who don't want the government well. Then I think a little bit about the so-called death tax, that is. The inheritance tax, as the Right-Fremskritsparte-government removed in this year's government budget, but I think most of all about the reductions made in the property tax in next year's budget. I would like to remind you that in Sweden, which is also a welfare society based on the same values as in Norway, it was actually a social democrat, Göran Persson, who removed the inheritance tax, and the bourgeois alliance removed the entire property tax in a jaf when they were elected in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4612	The right-wing parties in general and the Progress Party in particular have for years given the impression that the tax can be reduced without removing services. It's fine, Minister of Finance Siv Jensen has said on a number of occasions, because we can only cut the red tape. Now she sits there as responsible for the budget proposal that has been promoted, and we see very clearly how the government is struggling to get the ends to meet. There is more use of oil money than ever before, cut off of an unsocial nature to finance the tax cut, or the assumption that individuals will pay more themselves, for example. within culture. There is no free lunch in the economy. There's someone who's got the Nobel Prize to point out that. The economic theory of the right-wing parties in Norway and across Europe is, of course, a complete failure. It only leads to differences. But they don't want to hear. And why don't they? No, of course, the second mantra is: we're going to privatize. Then it has to be more effective. Now it's documented in the entire international economy that privatising makes welfare services almost 20 pst. more expensive than they are in Norway. At least it should be that Liberals in the right-wing parties were interested in implementing a social economy that is at least effective for the economy. But neither will they listen to that ear. We know what these things lead to in the long term. In the long term, it leads to a weaker country and a weaker community, resulting in inefficiency in the economy. But they're trying to go past this discussion all the time, despite the fact that it's so obvious that it's the way it is. This above all shows that the so-called FrP code has collapsed in the meeting with reality. I will not fail to say – not to mention, because it has irritated me for months – that the current fiscal spokesman for the Progress Party was standing here on the pulpit and hesitant about the Labour Party's relationship to the rule of action, and compared it to the creed. He did so, and he was applauded, I noticed, by his sentences. Now he's standing there, has to follow the rule of action and is standing here on the pulpit today and talking nice about it. More collapse cannot be demonstrated from the right side of Norwegian policy for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4630	After the Workers' Party was awarded last year by the voters their second worst election result since World War II, none of us, on the civil side, had expected that there would be a merry and happy crowd who took the floor in this debate. Nevertheless, I have to say that there is a way in which poverty and poverty are claimed to have suddenly been thrown into the country. One of the things that may have surprised me the most, is the workers' party representatives' offensive to the education budget of the Right Party government, which was further strengthened after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. It may be worth recalling that in 2012, the Research Council sent out a press release on the Workers' Party's research budget, where it said From Sewskjär till Havari. In 2014 – i.e. this autumn – the same Research Council sent out the press release A strong research budget. I listen much more to the Research Council than I do to the merry team in the Workers' Party. But there are many who have also listened to the Workers' Party. Therefore, it is worth remembering that some of the things that the Workers' Party has said have also been written down – for example. when Trond Giske, current head of the Education Committee, was Minister of Industry and said to Business of the Day on 6 January 2011: ‘We cannot live in the long term by the fact that money invested in enterprises is taxed as wealth in a more difficult way than money placed in real estate.’ His conclusion was to remove the property tax. In its alternative budget this year, the Workers' Party is increasing the tax by 10 billion. kr. On 18 July 2013, the financial spokesperson for the Workers' Party, Marianne Marthinsen, was asked in the VG what she thought about the Right Party and the Advance Party choosing to remove the inheritance fee. She said, ‘There is a clear picture of the fact that the Right does not care about the allocation policy.’ We want to keep the inheritance fee, she said. Now she had the chance. She is presenting an alternative budget that would be what was adopted if the Labour Party had a purely majority in this Chamber. She did not dare reintroduce the inheritance fee. So you might say that yes, but this was the Labour Party in the government, there's something else in the opposition, it's easier then to say what you actually want, without having to negotiate with everyone. All right. Then we can see what Helga Pedersen, the Vice President of the Workers' Party, said on April 22nd this year, when she promised to re-enter the cultural school class on behalf of the Workers' Party. When we sat on the church, education and research committee and were awarded the Workers' Party's alternative state budget, no crown was found to reintroduce the cultural school hour. One of the problems of the Workers' Party – and we're going to make sure that it's also going to be a theme for 2017 – is that there's a long way between what they're saying and what they're doing. The voters knew that in 2013. We will remind them of that in 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4662	I'm far from being the oldest in the room, but I've been jerking off to be politically active for a few years. I think they call it broilers. What strikes me is how little the political arguments have changed from me as a 13-year-old enrolled in Socialist Youth, as a 15-year-old into Young Right and to today – 15 years later. As now it is about money – about who grants the most. The political debate has been reduced to ‘We granted it’ and ‘Yes, but we grant it’. And that's probably why, I'm assuming, that the Workers' Party would wait as long as possible to put forward its option, so that they could see exactly where they wanted to add a little bit of space, so they could say yes, but we allow it. In some policy areas, it is quite natural that this is the case. This could be done, for example, by: continue training of teachers and prioritising drug and psychiatry in health services. That's why I'm also going to continue to argue like that in relevant areas. But I think that the spiral we are in in Norwegian political debate is unpleasant. It has no limits. Finally, it is no longer possible to make an offer. We know where it's going. The perspective message is clear, and then we have to use good times to make some changes. The left will not be involved. The representative, Mr Kolberg, said in his statement that the parties on the right-hand side of Norway are not listening. Well, I guess we just follow and stand for the economic system that has contributed to growth, and that has lifted most people out of poverty through the history of humanity, but okay: we can leave the empire lying. He believes that we do not listen – while he, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Center Party regularly ignore a message they themselves made. It clearly shows that work is the key to future well-being, that the workline needs to be strengthened, and that we need to do some priorities that can be bad to do and that may be bad to stand in, but that are nevertheless necessary for us to be able to preserve the welfare state in the future. I had expected more than opportunism from the Workers' Party in these political debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4677	On 11 December last year, in almost the same situation as this, the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen said the following: ‘I am firmly convinced that the money in business will grow more jobs and more businesses, they will grow business development, business development, and it will grow safer and more profitable jobs. [[...]] [[...]] Therefore, removing taxes on wealth is so important.’ This is a historical quotation. Few policy initiatives have become as low as cutting their assets in companies – including in North Norway. The region he represents accounts for one third of Norway's land area, 9.5 pst. by the inhabitants, but only 4 pst. of the country's fortunes? Does Bakke-Jensen understand that the government's massive cuts in regional development funds and in marine value creation programmes do not make seed funds any of that, that reduced investments in new Norse industrial ideas, that the government's municipal model, which frame Northern Norse municipalities and zeros out the government's commitment to trade, and that the government's weakening of the supply and liberalisation of the quota system directly weakens the potential for development of the Nordic business system? Nope. In Northern Norway, there is a consensus – to call it that – about understanding that this is the challenge. To realise the great potential of the northern part of the country on Norwegian premises, the part of the country needs capital, competence, infrastructure and labour. Not on any of these areas does the government deliver. Instead, they bring down all these bets that are in the country section. In this way, we are in danger that there are others – those with capital that are outside the national divide – who have seen the premise for the development of the region, and that the northern people are put on the sidelines when they are indebted to their own future. I'm not afraid of other people's capital, but it's got to be a mix, so the Nordics won't be completely put on the sidebar. I reacted strongly to Hurtigruten being sold to the City of London, and Cermaq being sold to Mitsubishi. These things don't matter to Right. At the same time, the Right, in its misunderstanding of the meaning of the property tax, has crying crocodile tears for Norwegian ownership. Why is Nordic ownership so different? In its alternative budget, SV proposes the creation of a Nordic investment fund to strengthen Nordic ownership. We propose to increase regional development funds considerably, and we propose a strong commitment to building skills. The contrast is great to the Hill-Jensen government. He stands out as a true idealist, who gives a whole new meaning to the questions to the popular-loving North Norwegian philosopher Peter Wessel Zaffe: “The values grow in the earth of neglect.”
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4697	According to the OECD, Norway is cutting low on innovation. But with the budget we are adopting today, we are strengthening both innovation and innovation. We have for many years made us very dependent on oil revenues, and we now experience that these revenues can fluctuate. The challenge is that we have spent a great deal of oil money on cost-requiring well-being rather than on anti-competitive measures. This has Right – we have it in the blood – pointed out for a long time. For the Right, it is important that we create values before they are distributed. For some, it is easy to get sympathy with the Labour Party's cheap rhetoric, that one takes from the poor and gives to the rich, when the government is now taking action to distort money use and strengthen competitiveness. We heard here today that Marianne Marthinsen of the Workers' Party referred to the cut in the wealth tax as a gift package for the rich. In the same order, pink ho the throne, which describes the country's challenges in a good way, but surprisingly, she criticizes the government to do something about these challenges. Norway has lost competitiveness every day for the last eight years with the red-green government. We have a cost level and a welfare level that is significantly higher than our trading partners. This, in addition to the peculiar taxes and taxes, makes the competitive situation costly for a large number of enterprises. The Labour Party proposes in its budget to increase the strange tax level. We need to focus on areas that can improve competitiveness. The budget contains, among others: the amount of time spent on research and two seed funds, in relation to the government platform, and tax credits, to mention something. This is in order to promote competitiveness. In order to meet demanding competition while at the same time providing new industries and industries with growth potential, the government is also working with measures other than those set out in the budget. Some of these measures will be described in a maritime strategy and in a travel strategy, in order to ensure the competitiveness of these industries. Then we have the Tveterås selection, which the red-green government puts down. They come with their advice to improve the value chain of fish. Another major communication on growth in the aquaculture industry is being worked on. In addition, as was mentioned by many here today, the Scheel Committee comes in a few hours with its recommendations on a growth-promoting tax system. The representative Syversen from the Christian People's Party invited to a broad settlement, as do Truls Wickholm from the Labour Party. I support the fact that we can have a broad deal about a big tax change to promote our business. It eats up society. If we are able to gain competitiveness with a broad deal here in Stortinget, we will be much better equipped to meet a future with uncertain and falling oil revenues for the state – rather than a driver with cheap rhetoric and cheap points that plastic bags are to finance gift packages for the rich.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4714	We live in an uncertain and troubled world. Internationally, more than 50 million people are fleeing. Over 30 million are internally displaced. More than 18 million are fleeing their own country – from countries like Syria, South Sudan and also Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Only in Syria, there are 3 million people who have fled the country. 6.5 million are internally displaced. Turkey and Lebanon have received 1 million refugees each, so Lebanon is a country with less than 5 million inhabitants. On this background, the Left is very pleased that we have had the advantage of receiving 500 more quota refugees than the government had first promised. You could say that 500 more are small when the numbers are so infinite. At the same time, it is important to remember that for the 500 this will apply, it means so infinitely much to them as individuals that they now have an opportunity to come to Norway and start a new life. On the left, we believe that it is also important to strengthen both UDI and UNE and have included it in our alternative budget. And as far as the cooperation agreement is concerned, we are particularly pleased that we have also received a majority in favour of continuing a childcare facility for 4 and 5 year olds in the reception of asylum, and that activities for children living in reception are continued, as well as ensuring sufficient places for minor asylum seekers. I think it's important in the world's situation -- we have the greatest refugee numbers since World War II -- not to lose heart or will because there's so much to do, but always remember that this is also about individuals, and it's individuals we have a duty to protect, and it's individuals we have a duty to help. That's why I think the Storting now has reason to be proud that we're increasing the number of quota refugees. It's an important signal internationally, and it's important for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4725	I note that Stefan Heggelund regrets the lack of perspectives in Norwegian policy in this debate as well. Let me therefore invite Stefan Heggelund to review the Right's policy and nitrite attempts to weaken some of the fundamentals of our democracy, namely Norwegian media, freedom of expression and freedom of the press. We see that we have a government that, in the field of field by area, proposes cuts that will affect the media diversity, which will lead to the closure of several newspapers, which will lead to fewer votes being released and which can represent a challenge to our democracy. They cut in the production grant for newspapers, cutters for Sami newspapers, cutters for Nynorsk Avissenter, cutters for the Institute of Journalism, they propose to introduce VAT on newspapers, and they freeze the NRK licence. Then, after the budget agreement, it's been focused on fixing it in some of the worst cuts. But the reason why I take the word here is something you can read in the supplementary setting that at first sight can act as a step in the right direction, but when you read between the lines and put it in context with what the Right Party and the Advance Party really think about the matter, that gives cause for concern. This is where the majority of people write that. ‘will simultaneously notify ESA of low, platform-neutral VAT rate of 8 pst. and platform-neutral non-discrimination through zero VAT rates for both paper newspapers, e-news and digital editorial content’. Experts in the field have warned that this is a major tactical blunder, and that with such a grip you risk leaving the whole matter to ESA. It's precisely in the pre-notification phase that you can look at what the action space is in relation to zero VAT, eight pst. VAT or other rates. However, notifying several races is both unwise and very unpredictable. I think that's actually a tactical grip from a government that really wants 8-8. We see that they do that in the setting, where they repeat that it was right for the Right and the Advance Party to propose low-VAT, i.e. 8-8, and posts from the media-political spokesperson in the Right, Kårstein Eidem Løvaas, earlier today show that there is a government that is exclusively concerned with 8-8. The working party wants the government to notify zero VAT. We are proposing it in this position, we are proposing it in the technical position of the Committee on Culture, and we are also proposing it in the tax proposal later this year. The parties that want zero VAT, we ask insistently to go for this proposal, as leaving the whole case to ESA will put the matter and the Storting...
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4739	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4742	Politics, of course, is about choice. The Workers' Party's road choices are about further developing the world's best welfare society. This is done by focusing on good welfare arrangements for all, a clear policy of distribution and a safe labour market policy. This has proved to be a recipe for success in creating growth and jobs. The road choices of this government are clear: more market and privatisation of important welfare tasks, large tax cuts to the richest and more unsafe working lives. One shall never underestimate the voters, and if there is anything the voters have understood, it is the consequences of the government's draft budget. Most people don't like injustice -- it's that simple. Then it should be said that the budget was somewhat better with the Christian People's Party and the Left, but still the direction is more market and privatisation and greater differences. The original draft budget of the Fremskritsparte-Government will be remembered in particular for the cut-off in the wealth tax, which will provide the richest millions in tax cuts, combined with the deduction of the disability child allowance. Now, fortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left were able to slow down some of it, but with still millions of cuts in taxes for the richest. Symptomaticly, the bag tax became what is best remembered from the budget agreement. It is understandable that many voters are disappointed after hearing the rhetoric of especially the Right in the election campaign. It was clear that the Right had learned from her sister party in Sweden how to wrap up the policy in good rhetoric. The highlight in this way was the slogan ‘People, not billions’. I understand that very many voters feel tricked by the rhetoric when the political fasitite is on the table. The voters were promised that they would get in both bag and bag. Many may feel that what they have received, along with a bag fee, is the cats in the bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4753	It was the representatives of Asheim and Heggelund that made me draw on the list of speakers. It has happened with the Labour Party that we are not cheerful enough in this discussion, and it is said that we are opportunists in the debate. I would like to remind the two representatives that this is not a pleasant debate about how the country should be governed, and then we should have absolute respect for the fact that both we and, apparently, the Norwegian electorate are deeply concerned about the direction in which the country is going. Then I will use a few words on the line of work and how this will be done. For the Workers' Party, the working line is important. That should show the results of our time in government the last eight years before the elections. It was created during our time approx. 350 000 jobs – most of them in the private sector. We worked all the way to get a more decent working life, so that it would be a good working life for people to work in and to be able to stay in for a long time. Claiming that the work line and the measures are in place is to ensure that those who are at least able to work get worse financial conditions, so that they can be pushed into a work situation where they are not prepared – that is not our line of work. Our work line is about creating a decent working life, an inclusive working life, and then we also need to maintain the mechanisms that make working life this way. Then we have to take up the fight against social dumping, then we have to make sure that there are mechanisms all the way to take care of those who fall outside the labour market, and we have to have a direction of labour policy – and all our policies – that provide social justice. Without a social justice policy, both the climate struggle, the working line and all other policies become meaningless, in our view, for social justice is the fundamental vision of the Workers' Party. So it's said that we're dealing with surrenders, and that we waited until last little before we laid out our alternative budget. Maybe the gentlemen can think a little bit about it having something to do with accountability? We have put forward an alternative budget to govern, and then it's good to know what the framework is, and not what we want to do. That's why we're waiting for what the framework is for this, and then we're aligning our policies with it. Simplifying the debate down to the level made in those speeches, I find it unworthy. I think one should have respect for the contradictions that are, because these are quite real political contradictions, and maybe the debate would have been better if we all had adhered to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4768	The representative Henrik Asheim was up here and encouraged merriment, but rarely have we heard such a strikingly gloomy speech as what came from the representative Stefan Heggelund. But then there has also been a trade mark for the financial debate that Heggelund is going up to this pulpit to judge how the Chamber has understood the debate and the importance of how the debate is to be addressed to the best of all. There's something surreal about being charged by the Right to pursue surrender policy. In the election campaign, which I remember well, but which is also starting to be a while ago, it was not the area where the Right should do better – or as Heggelund would have said: have spent more money – than the Workers' Party. It was in the field of transport, it was in the field of health, it was in the field of defence. But then we have also been given – or removed, if you will – in this debate here today Right and Heggelund's lack of will and ability to prioritize these areas in the face of the truly great and desired priority, namely tax cuts for those who have the most. It's clear that in such a setting it becomes interesting to measure the parties if what they say is what they really do when they get power, and for the Right, it remains a pretty good piece before they can get where they said they should be. It is possible that the Right does not follow along as well with the Workers' Party as the Workers' Party does. But if the Right had joined the Workers' Party, Heggelund would also notice that the Workers' Party launched some packages, policies that we thought were important to bet on. It was about investing in work, fighting social dumping, investing in skilled workers, and seeing these policy areas in context, because we say that it is not enough just to give apprentices a proper education; we also need to create an attractive working life where people want to work. Then we have to fight social dumping. We said we should have an effort in the climate. We must then have a number of efforts: we must bet on transport; we must bet on climate technology. We said we have to bet on health. Then we have to see prevention in the context of repair. In a number of areas, the Labour Party launched new thinking on how to think more fully and see larger policy areas in the context. If Stefan Heggelund wanted to participate in that debate, he is cordially welcome to take it – and not just go up here and judge on how appropriations have been made by the Workers' Party in this year and in previous years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4779	It was Højres Svein Harberg who made me take the floor again. He spent time defending the cultural budget. When the year's cultural budget is referred to as the best of times, there is reason to question it, because if you go into the budget presented, the cultural part of the Ministry of Culture's budget shows a growth of 1.1 pst. Well, it's a little bit better than the budget that was made big cut last year, but 1,1 pst. does not even cover the rise in prices, and the right cannot escape the suggestion, for example. cutting the cultural walking stick. It was probably no kioskvelter what was presented, at least not many who welcomed it cut. Then it's true that the cultural budget has improved after the Left and Christian People's Party have been involved and negotiated. We should be pleased about that, and culture is also pleased about that. So it's not like we're against private participation in the financing of cultural life. But what we think is worrying is that it's the private people who have to control where the money is going to be spent, that it's the cultural institutions that get money from the private, that are also going to release money from the state. This is a privatisation that we do not support. And yes, it's good to get the VAT refund in place in the budget, and it's good that the item also increases in next year's budget. But it would have been possible to support this even when the revised national budget was dealt with in ours. It was known that the challenges lay there. However, continued until next year, the VAT compensation scheme is underfunded and the sports laws have to prepare for tile otters to cover the lack of VAT compensation in the State budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4788	I have to bring a response to the representative of Knag Fylkesnes, who referred to the philosopher Peter Wessel Zaffe to describe my policy. Zapffe gave a doctorate called About the Tragic. In it he says: ‘Human beings have more intellectual capacity than nature requires, and this surplus is spent on meaningless horrors to find meaning in their lives. This is the ‘tragic’.’ I guess I don't know if it was where Knag Fylkesnes wanted it when he made the comparison. I'm not so educated in philosophy, but I've read some of Zapffe. He is, among other things, co-author of a Nordic work called Vett and Unwitting. There we can read about the one who was so trapped to lie that the bitch had to go out to call in the cows – completely without relevance to this debate. [[Laughter]] Knag County calls me an idealist and says that I only have an idealistic approach to the problem. I have to protest on the strongest. There's a big difference between me and the representative Knag County, especially with regard to taxes, and especially with regard to ownership. When Knag Fylkesnes also allows himself to blame the current government for the sale of Cermaq, it shows that there are no funds being shed here. The permission to sell the Cermaq group was granted to the government from the previous big business – it came as a matter of fact to the Stortinget from the red-green ones. We actually discussed whether it might be a good idea to sell Cermaq, which was a large group in aquaculture. We discussed whether we should just get rid of it, or whether there might be reasons why it was a good idea to keep it. One of the things that was then discussed was that the research part, Ewos, that produces and sells feed, might be important for us to keep in Norwegian hands, because of the development of competence and because of our research environments. This part could Trond Giske sell out long before the election, long before the government change, so at least we won't wear that. Cermaq was then left as a pure breeding company. It has now been sold to industrial owners. It strengthens ownership and results in better access to the market in Japan. I think for the company this is very good. For the jobs and for the value creation in the country, this can be very good. But I'm not 100 pst. ensure that the representative Knag Fylkesnes is ever satisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4806	It's getting loose – it's obvious that we're about to cross midnight. We are approaching the end, so on behalf of the Workers' Party I need to make a couple of explanations of vote. We are going to vote in favour of part of the proposals for Roman Numeral Decisions resulting from the conciliation, and some of this requires explanation. Firstly, we are not going to vote in favour of the proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision V, on the sustainability chapter of the national budget. That is because we are promoting our own proposal. Proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision IX, to take care of the long-term unemployed in connection with changes in the daily allowance period, we are going to vote in favour, but I just want to make it clear from this speaker that we are primarily against the whole change in the day-to-day pay system. We are voting in favour of the proposal for a Roman Numeral Decision, but I would like to stress that we are not in favour of introducing the plastic bag charge. In the case of proposals for Roman Numeral Decision XXII, the assessment of a low electricity charge for data storage, we vote in favour, but refer to the fact that we ourselves have a proposal that this should be introduced without investigation. When I first stand here, I have to almost a little visit to the representative Heggelund, because I have also noticed his fascinating tendency to take on the role of Supreme Judge in these debates. It's kind of weird to look at. The representative, Heggelund, is sad because the Norwegian political debate has been reduced to some sort of allocation competition. I believe that he is making a fundamental mistake in that analysis, and that today's debate is proof of that. Here we have had a longer debate on fundamental differences in the approach to economic policy. Heggelund's own party's idea of how to reduce differences by first increasing them – the trickle-down mindset, as we know from many communities – has got a thorough run. When we try to get the representatives of Heggelund's party involved in discussions on, for example: the consequences of changing the private school law or the consequences of the privatisation of health services that will result in the cooling water of free treatment choices, there is no particular willingness to do so. The same applies to discussions on the impact of the time-sales of Norwegian ownership or the impact of cut in key instruments on specific industries, under the cover of industry neutrality. It is the government parties that have had the strategy of sub-communicating the direction in which they will take Norway. Now we see the outlines of that direction in the budget. It's a direction that's got a brutal meeting with the voters. It's something quite different than a few million dollars in terms of appropriations. Finally, I would like to address the Workers' Party's distributed proposal – and I also remembered it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4823	That's good. The president was bid to remember it. The representative Marianne Marthinsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4828	I said in my previous post that if you want to know what's important to the government, I think you should keep your eyes fixed on the money, because it turns out it wasn't the people, but the money that was most important anyway. It was perhaps even the richest people who were the most important. I've been following the debate for the last few days, and at the same time I've been working hard to really understand the serious situation in Europe and in the world now, with the greatest refugee disaster we've seen since World War II. I have sought to understand it in the government parties, and there I found nothing. What I find is a government that boasts that there will be fewer refugees to Norway when we have the worst refugee disaster after World War II. It's like a victory – for a government that has to be knelt by the Left and Christian People's Party to accept the poor 500 more. It is not just a health and humanitarian disaster in these neighbouring countries. It is an extremely dangerous political situation when so many people are in refugee camps and fleeing neighbouring countries. It's millions. When the small country of Lebanon has four million inhabitants and more than one million refugees, it should have meant that a government in a country that has an exceptional freedom of action in the economy could afford a little more, or at least they would have done what they say they should do, namely help people there. But neither do they put any significantly greater effort on the table. It's not about helping people here or helping them there. It's about doing both. We have to do it now, because this is much worse than any of the other things we're talking about today, and because there's a dangerous situation that arises when the rest of the world turns the deaf ear to and does not burn each other up to do more and help more. Norway could lead by example, where we could have been in Europe, in neighbouring countries, in the countries we are working with all along, to remedy this serious situation. But you don't. So instead, you choose to spend billions of dollars on the richest people in this country, including my sails, and I can promise that is completely wasted money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4839	Now we see the true face of the Workers' Party. Their policies are being challenged. Yes, you even put it in context with the perspective message. Then you're called an over-judgment. Not just that, you're called a gloomy over-judgment. This is the true face of the Workers' Party. If they get challenged, this is the rhetoric you meet. It was nice that the representative, Mr Wickholm, confirmed in his speech – for over half a minute or perhaps more of his speaking time – that surrender is exactly what is the Workers' Party's solution to almost every question. The representative, Mr Henriksen, said that I and the representative, Mr Asheim, showed a lack of respect for the debate and, above all, for the views of the Labour Party, because they are being challenged, for example. the line of work, and because they are challenged by their sudden lack of willingness to make important changes to welfare systems. Can you rightly call it opportunism? Yes, because I've seen what, among other things. The previous speaker has said about the negotiations in the previous government on, for example, the the child supplement. But suddenly there's a black-and-white debate where the Workers' Party has always been on the right side. So what's going to happen? Well, then comes the groundless polarizations that we know so well from the Workers' Party: polarizations where polarizations absolutely do not belong, like, for example. in the field of combating labour crime and social dumping, where there is, in fact, a broad consensus, regardless of what representatives from the Workers' Party and the SV have to say. We're very happy that it is. I hope that the political debate can be raised to deal with more than who has been granted the most, that we can stand together on the areas where it is important that we actually stand together in this national assembly, and that we can discuss the different perspectives we have. But surrender cannot always be the solution, and I am sorry, but the Labour Party has confirmed that they believe it is, with its alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4850	I have to answer the post to Bakke-Jensen. First of all, I just want to say that I'm glad that there are representatives here who know their Zaffe – the philosopher, the environmental activist and the socially engaged Zaffe. It's good to know. It's good that a Right-Man hangs himself in it. So to the more serious thing about it than calling in cows: what the government does in this budget and in the previous budget is, first of all, that a drawing out capital from a part of the country that has a broad consensus about lack of capital. This is the most capitalised region in Norway, and one draws capital from that region. The government did not propose to set up a seed fund, which a co-conspirator's raise wanted to do. You did not suggest that. And one doesn't know where that seed fund that the partners have put in place is going to end up. So one draws capital. It's the one. The other thing that also does – fully active – is that one dissolves commitments. When it relates to natural resources that one has in the country, one dissolves the obligations that one has to deliver to establish or secure industry in that region. The incentives that form the basis for actually having an innovative, forward-looking industry take away by solving the commitments. Finally, the efforts made by the red-green government over many years – regional development funds, marine value creation programmes, etc. Then I thought it was special to act so amazemented at the criticism. I have met many of the right-wing and progressive party people in Northern Norway before the election and now in the later era, and the characteristic Nordic self-confidence is gone. They can no longer talk so hot on behalf of their own party's bet in the north. They're also more and more involved in the criticism I'm bringing here. It's going to be 4 pst, and it's going to be 4 pst, and it's going to be 4 pst, and it's going to be 4 pst, and it's going to be 4 pst, and it's going to be 4 pst. of the wealth that is there? And where did the big fight go? The county spokesmen in the Nordic countries, Troms and Finnmark have all said that this is going to be zero, because one has weakened the budgets of the county councils. We have a municipal model that favors rich municipalities in the south, which go beyond the municipalities in the north. So here it's not much to call in cows, Hill-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4864	I take the floor to ask the representative Stefan Heggelund not only to ask to raise the debate but to take up the debate on the important issues that he and his party are asking. For it is not my party leader who, since the election campaign, has consistently refused – either physically or in the press – to answer questions about what is their main argument until now for their policy, namely the dynamic effect of tax havens on those who have the most from before. Throughout the debate today, we have heard the same arguments, although they have been refuted from the beginning. We have heard that we need to solve the important challenges for the future jointly. We've heard that tax havens are growth-promoting. We've heard that we have to take care of what we have. Nevertheless, it is not a single proof that the tax havens of those who already have the most dynamic effects. So instead of asking us to stop being so irritated and stop being so engaged, I suggest that you take the political debates and bring a proof, come up with an argument, give an explanation as to why you think the tax havens will be dynamic. Because I haven't seen that far. It's strange about a politician who's surprised by the involvement of other politicians. The reason why we're engaged is because we actually care. That's because we actually listen to the researchers we applaud. We're listening to the research results that lie there, we're taking it into account when 17 out of 20 professors in this country say that the dynamic effect of tax credits on those who already have the most will not automatically benefit those who have the least. Unless there's a secret agreement that I haven't seen, between the government and those who have the most, that if they just get a load of tax breaks, they'll start and create a bunch of jobs, I'm still asking for the ability to take the debate, not just talk loud about lifting it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4873	It was impossible not to take the word after the words that fell from Heggelund's mouth. The big difference between the Labour Party and the Right is that the Right wants a work environment law that meets you when you enter the door at the bar, a work environment law that sets obstacles for you, and that works against you and for the boss at the place all the time. We want a work environment law that stands in your back when you go out to the bar. We want measures against social dumping that actually combat social dumping. When one is out in the workplace and meets Russian, Polish and Lithuanian workers who have it tough and who are being pressured – yes, the trade unions are actually able to sue for inaccuracies and to sue employers who break the law, essentially. The difference between the Labour Party and the Right is that we listen to the thousands of thousands of listening posts that are out in Norwegian jobs, which build the country, which every day rises early in the day, run in the kindergarten, which is flexible, which adapts every day – those that are really the bottom line of the Norwegian model. We are listening to all the thousands of thousands – 900,000 members of the LO, several hundred thousand members of the Nurses' Association – we are taking them to the hearing. We have a completely different view of the world of work and the organized model. If the solution to social dumping is the Labour Inspectorate, I think it is terrible that the excuse that the Service Centre for Foreign Workers for Coordination Units – to take more of the crime in the workplace – is not in place is that cities have not done enough to get it, that they argue with it. If that's the solution to social dumping, the government has to make sure to deliver it right away. We know that if we're going to solve social dumping, we're going to have to play on the team, then we actually have to do it together -- use the thousands of thousands of listening posts, the bases, trust elected, the people who have chords out in the workplace, the people who work every day to increase productivity in the construction sites. There is no one out there who wants the crime that you want a regulation that you want rights, and you want politicians who support you, that you don't suspect the motives every day. No one wants an unprofessional construction industry, no one wants unprofessional learning. You want to be able to talk to people, you want to know that the people you work with are safe, and you want to be safe because you're well trained. This is ensured by a good regulation, by a work environment law that supports people in their backs and that does not meet people in the door when they get in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4880	The representative Frank Bakke-Jensen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4883	Just briefly: first, I must be allowed to point out that I do not recognize the description of the part of the country and the right people in the region as gloomy, in despair and in a bad mood. I meet many people who are in a good mood – most people – and who are well off with a right-wing government, because now it's being put into school, now we give young people our opportunities, and we have a policy that leads to equal opportunities. Then I must be allowed to shoot in, at the end of the day, when it comes to the vicious debate about taxing business: they must show us that they are going to spend this money on creating jobs. There are jobs that are created, there are companies that are created, there are machinery parks – we tax it and then we charge taxes on it. I don't understand why you think that as soon as we tax these people who have built the jobs, built the values, a little less, they stop creating. These are entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs and business owners who will only create on behalf of their jobs and businesses. It'll happen further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4890	At the end of this debate, it was difficult not to make a brief comment when the representative Heggelund, on behalf of the government parties, was so violently offensive on the way into the big night, for the most striking thing about this financial debate has been the violent contrast between what the government parties are doing with their money, and what they are talking about most about. Usually, what you spend the most on in a budget, is also the most important thing to talk about in the debate afterwards. The big single issue in this budget has been the wealth tax, but the wealth tax has almost been absent from the posts of government parties in this debate. In those years of Swedish government, we were very clear on what was our most important individual priority, and it was getting big sums over the state budget into the kindergartens. Then we talked about kindergartens, too, because we wanted people to remember it. Now it's the wealth tax that's the big priority, but the government parties' representatives are not talking about the wealth tax in their contributions. It must be because they want people to forget that that is the main priority. So this debate has been marked by evasive government parties who are not interested in discussing the most important aspect of their own policy, and I interpret it as a sign that you don't believe that debate can be won. I think that's a very good assessment, and it says a lot about the weakness of the government's priorities. It's like, if you feel weak on your own basis, you're going to want to get tough on other extra strong ones, and I guess that's what we saw in this final round, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4903	The representative, Martin Kolberg, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4906	I take the floor for this brief comment, because everyone has heard this debate and the heavy, principled part of it, and I believe that there is reason for the Stortinget to note that the Minister of Finance, who has heard this whole debate, does not participate in it, either because she does not want it, because she does not want it, or because she does not think it is necessary. I don't think that's right, and I think it would have been quite in place that the Stortinget had heard what the finance minister thought about the last part of the debate that the Stortinget has now had.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4911	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4917	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4925	The President proposes that the Minister of Finance’s statement on the 2015 State and National Budget be annexed to the minutes of the Storting meeting on 8 October 2014. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e4935	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 30, by Marianne Marthinsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposal No. 2, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3-13, by Mr Slagsvold Vedum, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, proposal No. 14, by Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left-wing proposal No. 15, 17–26, 28 and 29, by Snorre Serigstad Valen, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 16, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA The President noted that proposal No. 27 by the Socialist Left Party has not been tabled. For proposal No 30, from the Labour Party and proposals No. 17-26, 28 and 29, by the Socialist Left Party, the President will note that they have been tabled after the deadline laid down in the Stortingen Rules of Procedure for submitting loose proposals. The reason why they had to be put forward in this way is that they are not included in the supplementary position by mistake, but are only included in the first vote of the committee. So they're treated in the usual way. There is a vote on proposal No. 16. from the Greens/Greens/EFA. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions No TitleCrons1State administration6 026 953 0002Family and consumer45 872 619 0003Culture10 219 118 0004External 37 960 823 0005Justis25 891 954 0006Immigration, regional development and housing20 219 395 0007Work and social401 374 292 0008Defence34 236 268 0009Industry4 568 721 00010Fiskerry888 081 00011Agriculture17 368 880 00012Oil and energy 116 677 762 00013Environment11 174 951 00014Constituent institutions2 209 892 00015Health170 204 199 00016Course, education and research66 070 498 00017Transport and communication56 201 304 00018Rame transfers to the local sector mv.164 388 800 00019Compulsible expenditure and income9 950 000 000 00020Finance administration mv.40 108 985 985 00021Drafts and budgets and expenditure 1613
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5158	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17, 21 and 22, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 17 sounds: «The government is asked to come back to the Storting with proposals to strengthen its competence in environmental matters in public procurement.» Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government of the revised National Budget for 2015 is asked to explain how the recruitment and maintenance of staff with disabilities in the state and state activities has been continuously carried out and in the process of the efficiency measures proposed in the 2015 budget.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the Wage and Occupational Pensions Act on leave back to the way it was until 1 January 2014.’ The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5187	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20, 28 and 29, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised National Budget for 2015 to explain how the state’s responsibility for ensuring that senior citizens employed in the state and state activities can remain in employment until retirement has been maintained on an ongoing basis and in the process of the efficiency measures proposed in the 2015 budget.’; Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to postpone the reorganization process and transfer of responsibility from the Customs and Tax Set to the Tax Set, and to return to the Stortinget with a better anchored proposal for reorganisation involving employees’ organisations.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reverse the proposals to introduce neutral VAT in the public sector and to implement a comprehensive amendment to the draft government budget in line with this reversal.’ The Labour Party and the Centre have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5216	There is a vote on proposal No. 18, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to reinstate the Directorate for Administration and ICT its Department for the Environment of Public Procurement.’ The Group of the Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5235	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25 and 26, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for an own-initiative action to develop the industrial opportunities for the use of wood and biomass.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to the United Kingdom with a plan for advanced industrial production and reindustrialisation, as Denmark, Germany, the United States and the United Kingdom have already undertaken.’ The Central Party has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5259	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15, 19, 23 and 24, of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration6 428 053 0002Family and consumer46 839 819 0003Culture10 743 988 0004External39 408 182 0005Justis25 414 354 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing17 333 095 0007Work and social401 554 292 0008Defence37 123 301 0009Industry4 185 170 00010Fischery-143 919 00011Agriculture16 595 022 00012Oil and energy-111 588 262 00013Environment8 503 751 00014Constituent institutions2 204 892 00015Health172 114 178 00016Courts, education and research64 180 358 00017Transport and communication56 033 144 00018Rame transfers to the local sector mv.16 706 300 00019Constituent expenditure and revenue10 350 00020Financial administration etc.40 092 585 00021Tasss, duties and payments to-170 1303 933 000 Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asked by the government in the revised national budget for 2015 to provide a new 10 year compensation scheme for the unemployees who lose tax on the conversion of income tax and to propose any new tax deductions and changes to the housing aid that may compensate for the loss of the conversion so that insured persons have a similar opportunity as they do today to acquire and maintain housing.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting with a proposal to set up a Pilot Invest Fund under Innovation Norway worth SEK 3 500000000, where the return on renewable energy, energy and other environmental technologies will be used.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a proposal to set up an Investment Fund for Northern Norway under Innovation Norway of SEK 5000000.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5464	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration6 056 053 0002Family and consumer44 210 619 0003Culture10 303 475 0004Exchange37 373 323 0005Justis25 285 254 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 199 995 0007Work and social399 101 292 0008Defence37 803 701 0009Industry2 996 721 00010Fischery-133 919 00011Agriculture16 508 022 00012Oil and energy-111 769 562 00013Environment8 398 251 00014Constituent institutions2 183 392 00015Health170 157 478 00016Church, education and research65 813 598 00017Transport and communication54 707 444 00018Rame transfers to the local sector etc.162 470 00019Constitudial expenditure and revenue9 280 300 00020Financial administration etc.40 088 985 00021Tasss, payments and payments to households1 993 065 065 065 000 million
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5654	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7 and 11, from the Center Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests that, in drawing up the detailed rules for the plastic bag charge, bags based on bioplastics be exempted from the fee.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government within the quota for the reception of refugees to give priority to seriously injured refugees.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5676	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Four, nine and twelve from the Center Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The Government is asked to review conditions of competition and other framework conditions for the transport industry with a view to improving conditions.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government, in cooperation with business organisations, asks the government to assess the impact of increasing the turnover limit for online commerce with regard to the loss of Norwegian VAT and Norwegian jobs.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to submit an amended proposal to correct the income framework of the 31 municipalities subject to a reduced rate for a differentiated employer's fee. The correction of the transfers shall be made through the discretionary grant and so that municipalities retain a substantial part of the savings of reduced employers’ contributions.» The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5702	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a 40 pst regime to be put in place. re-depreciation for the first four years of all renewable energy included in the certificate market. It shall take effect on 1 March 2015.’ The Labour Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5721	There is a vote on proposal No. Eight, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The amount requested by the Government in drawing up the detailed rules for the plastic bag charge shall ensure that paper bags are exempted from the fee.’ The Socialist Left and the Greens have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5730	President! That's wrong. SV shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5744	There is a vote on proposal No. Ten, from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the following criteria for allocating increased appropriations for loss compensation: 70 pst. in additional compensation for losses between 200 and 799 kroner/inhabitant. 85 pst. in additional compensation for losses exceeding 800 kroner/inhabitant.» The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5770	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Three, six and thirteen from the Center Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration6 479 653 0002Family and consumer46 497 619 0003Culture10 306 828 0004External35 498 923 0005Justis25 788 254 0006Immigration, regional development and housing16 823 995 0007Work and social401 264 132 0008Defence38 338 1010 0009Industry4 294 721 00010Fiskerry-140 219 00011Agriculture17 385 822 00012Oil and energy-111 706 762 00013Environment8 471 751 00014Constituent institutions2 204 892 00015Health171 907 578 00016Church, education and research64 538 098 00017Transport and communication55 704 144 00018Rame transfers to the local sector mv.163 268 300 00019Constituent expenditure and revenue9 829 52000020Finance administration mv.40 258 085 00021Taxions and payments from households1 10786 318 million Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting to review aerodrome charges with a view to reducing aerodrome charges at aerodromes with State-funded routes, which are financed by an increase at other aerodromes.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government requests that the broadcasting fee for television receivers be set at $2,600 excl. value added tax 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e5968	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration6 388 053 0002Family and consumer46 157 119 0003Culture10 191 218 0004External 37 310 423 0005Justis25 414 254 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 429 895 0007Work and social 400 972 792 0008Defence38 215 1010 0009Industry3 917 721 00010Fiskerry-140 219 00011Agriculture16 636 022 00012Oil and energy-112 762 00013Environment8 034 751 00014Constitutional institutions2 204 892 00015Health171 279 078 00016Church, education and research64 250 021 00017Transport and communication54 349 844 00018Rame transfers to the municipal sector mv.161 715 800 00019Constituent expenditure and revenue9 752 700 00020Financial administration etc.40 078 985 00021Tas, duties and duties-1 101 441 516 516 00017 Transport and payments to households 349 841 814 000Fundments 396 000
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6158	There is a vote on proposal No. One, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Frame decisions 1State administration5 898 853 0002Family and consumer45 054 819 0003Culture10 864 418 0004External 37 414 323 0005Justis25 394 054 0006Inmigration, regional development and housing16 349 195 0007Work and social 400 606 592 0008Defence38 321 701 0009Industry4 171 971 00010Fischery-136 919 00011Agriculture16 744 822 00012Oil and energy-111 962 762 00013Environment 142 151 00014Constitutional institutions2 204 892 00015Health171 754 678 00016Church, education and research64 132 343 00017Transport and communication55 288 144 00018Rame transfers to the local sector mv.163 613 700 00019Constitudinal expenditure and revenue10 100 105 00020Financial administration mv.40 078 985 00090Tas, transfers1 103 8162 031 032 00017Sports and pension funds 788 144 000 million
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6348	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Workers' Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with its own message that can perform the same function as the sustainability chapter of the national budget.’ The Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6367	We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6557	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6571	We are going to vote on the other Roman numerals in the motion for a resolution of the vote, and here there will be a change of heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6717	The vote shall begin at the request of the section president on the proposals for II, III, IV, VI, VII, VIII, X, XI, XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XX, XXII, XXIV, XXVI, XXVII and XXVIII. The President has reason to believe that these will be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6730	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of V. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6744	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on IX. The centre party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6758	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the Committee's position at XII. The Workers' Party and the Centre have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6773	The proposal for XVII and XIX shall be put to the vote. The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6787	The vote will be taken on the proposal for XVIII and XXV. The Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6801	The vote will be taken on the vote on the proposal for XXI. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Greens/European Greens/European Free Alliance have announced their wish to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6815	The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution for XXIII. The working party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-12-01.ana.ud1735e6892	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
