ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e96	The representative Eirik Sivertsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e104	I am pleased, on behalf of Terje Breivik, Pål Farstad and myself, to promote representative proposals to strengthen consumer power through the digitisation of product information and to establish an information portal for groceries. Then, on behalf of Trine Skei Grande, Iselin Nybø and myself, I want to promote representative proposals to set up a separate law department on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e111	The representative, Kjersti Toppe, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e114	I would like to make a proposal on behalf of the representatives of Storing Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Olaug V. Bollestad, Hans Olav Syversen and myself to have the Vinmonopolet take over the tax-free scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e119	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The president asks that there be peace in the hall and would like to point out that there is a little bit of rattle when people go out. It's disturbing. You'll have to be hospitalized until you get out into the hiking hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e137	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following the intervention of a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e146	This law is a collection of small and large issues that follow budget decisions from the last harvest, as well as changes of minor political importance. There are in particular two legislative changes that are linked to political disagreement and that I am going to comment on. One is about homework, the other is about the distribution of free fruit and greenery in high school. Over time, teaching aid has been introduced through the SFO in many schools. The previous government legalized the right to a 1–4 homework. Steps, so that everyone got the offer, regardless of which school they went to. The scheme has been evaluated by researchers, and they can show that schools that introduced the scheme in 2010 and that did not have it before have had a more positive development in national testing than other schools. Therefore, there should be no doubt about the positive effect of homework and an offer that should be further developed. It is therefore important to stress that this amendment of the law should not be understood as weakening the offer as such. There is unanimity to give municipalities greater freedom in the way they design their homework provision, the year to which the teaching aid is provided, and how it is organised in practice together with the rest of everyday school life. However, an overall committee also warns municipalities against weakening the offer in general. Teaching aids are positive for students’ learning. The provision should be developed and strengthened in such a way that it is perceived as a real and important support for the individual student. Norwegian school is on the right track. One of the reasons for this is the principle of early intervention. The importance of early school education and good professional follow-up for later school outcomes is now widely agreed on, as opposed to the late 1990s. The working party supports the change, but will express a concern that the homeworker can start too late and be lubricated too thinly. Today, the scheme includes 8 hours per week divided into four years. The changes will now mean that the same resources will be allocated over 10 years. The consequences of this legislative change should be closely followed up by the school authorities, and from the Labour Party we expect increased appropriations, so that efforts towards the younger ones will not be weakened too much now when older students too will be able to receive homework. More research should also be done on homework, homework and the importance of this for children and young people’s learning. So to another thing: in this bill, the right to free fruit and green every day of high school students is removed. We in the Labour Party regret that. The school mat discussion has ridden Norwegian school debate for several years now. A lot can be said about it, and I won't. But one point I think is essential, and that is the fact that research findings and documentation are totally set aside and completely ignored by the majority. The big picture is as follows: Too many youths have a bad diet. It weakens their school performance and their health. Obesity and unhealthy diets combined with too little physical activity threaten people's health and are about to give us shorter lives. There is a clear link between these trends and the social and economic background of people. A research study can demonstrate that children with low - income parents are the ones most likely to change their diet after their children get fruit and vegetables at school. The distribution of fruit and green had exactly the effect we wanted: to stimulate healthier food. Research shows that it is entirely possible to do something about this, if you are concrete, as with free fruit and green. But it doesn't help to publish general health information or to refer to parents' responsibilities. In its comments, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left claim that the distribution of fruit and vegetables is a small, accurate tool and refers to a study. To that I have the following comment: The young people who were part of this study that is referred to in the setting had probably eaten even less fruit if it was not distributed to the school. On the other hand, the evidence that politicians' indexation and talk about parental responsibility are going to have some remarkable effect, I await with excitement. The truth is that the Right, Left and Advance Party believe that preventive health work is a private responsibility, and that they are not willing to spend money on something that hits everyone, in a way like monks and that works. The argument that money should instead be used for learning promotions is sound. But it doesn't help even the most competent teachers if the students are not obese and have low blood sugar. So to say that all employers in this country have understood this. Therefore, there are canteens with subsidised food in most places. They don't do this out of pure goodness, but because they think it increases productivity and well-being. There are even employers in this house who give fruit and green free to their own employees. However, children and young people, who generally have a lower diet and are in a worse form than before, are unable to have an overall approach to helping them learn as much as possible. I must say that I think this is more than strange. This decision makes us go in the wrong direction when it comes to school food. The Labour Party therefore does not support the amendment to abolish the duty of free fruit and vegetables in school. Finally, I would like to mention a matter that I am pleased to see now become a reality, namely that everyone who has passed vocational and vocational training has a right to build on general study competence. This is a good measure that will lead to minor drop-outs in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e176	This is a legislative proposal that involves many important changes that make the school better in many areas – for the most vulnerable students we have in school, it helps to reduce professional drop-outs and to increase school knowledge in general. One of the main steps taken is to adapt the teaching aid scheme so that municipalities are given greater freedom to apply this important measure when they think it is the best way to do it. It is gratifying that the Committee unanimously supports this now, but it is worth recalling that in the previous years, under another majority, this was earmarked for 1–4. steps. It was a bad arrangement, because the students are different, and the students have different needs. This is so that many parents can easily help their children with their homework from 1 to 4. Steps, where it is about learning simple reading, writing and billing, but that it becomes more demanding – even for parents with education – to help with mathematics or natural sciences when students get into high school. It is also true that more media have recently developed that more and more parents buy private reading aids. Of course, it's not new that some parents are engaged in their own children's schooling, and that they do what they think is right for their children; neither is there anything to be particularly concerned about. However, this measure can help some of those who do not have access to it now get the help they need in the school they are in. The second thing that is very pleasing in this case is that you now grant the right to build up also for those who have completed the professional and professional training. In this way, if you want to have a study qualification, you no longer have to leave the profession after two years. As the scheme is today, for many, Vg3 builds on a kind of ‘non-response trap’. The half are unable to pass because very high professional requirements are imposed on those who are going through. This also leads to a general increase in the rate of drop-out, which means that we lose a lot of good professionals, as we know we're going to need more of them in the years to come. Now the students do not have to worry about losing the court, and they can complete their professional course first, before they may build on it. That this right also comes without any age limit, is very positive. A minor issue on which there is not much disagreement – on which the rapporteur was involved – but which is important for those concerned is the proposal to remove the requirement of expert judgement by deciding on additional time in secondary education for students with a right to specific language training. Today, the PP service has to make an assessment before any such action is taken. It's double work, and it's unnecessary to take the students through this. That is why there is also a great deal of support for this proposal from the Hearing Officers, and I believe that one day like this – when we are going to debate many things on which there has been a disagreement in the Committee – it is also worth noting that there are some steps that are very important for a few students, but it is all the more important for those concerned. It is remarkable that the most time spent by the Workers' Party on a matter like this is the fruit and vegetables system. So that's the way to clarify it first: the majority of the committee doesn't disagree with the fact that fruit is healthy, and there's no disagreement that it's good to eat fruit. What we are discussing is whether it is right to spend the money – when we first have to prioritise within the school – on this scheme. And so it's that the schools can offer fruit and green to their students with this decision; they can even do it through a subsidised scheme from the Ministry of Health and Welfare. But the truth is that you don't have to be against fruit to think that there are other things that are more important than distributing fruit in school. During the previous years, a statutory right to fruit was introduced, but it was not done, for example. for the teacher's right to continuing education, these steps were not taken in the field of homework as we are now doing. Sometimes you have to prioritize, and in the choice between teacher and pear, the majority choose the teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e197	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for having explained the matter. Most of the legislative amendments are widely agreed on, but I would like to comment on some of the changes proposed. For the Progress Party, schooling is important for all, and in this case it is proposed to introduce a right to primary and secondary education for young people aged between 16 and 18 who are applying for residence in the country. The proposal emphasises the need to strike a balance between individual needs for training and other important societal considerations, such as immigration regulatory considerations. I would like to stress that the proposal covers only those who are legally resident in the country and that the right to attend school is immediately terminated by any final decision rejecting the application for a residence permit. The drop-out rate in high school is high. Many students leave vocational schools after half the age in order to take up study skills, and approx. half of these do not pass the examination. Today, we will finally decide to legislate on the right to build on general study competence for students who have completed and passed vocational and vocational training. The court is without a time limit. We believe that this is an important incentive, which will allow far more people to complete vocational training. The lifting of the duty of free fruit and vegetables for those who go to high school is a matter of shared opinions. Some point to the importance of the offer, while others point out that this has given schools challenges related to logistics and staffing. Several also point out that it seems strange that the offer only applies in the early stages. The promotion team is concerned that quality in school needs to be improved, and we want to give priority to learning promotion measures in initial training. We would point out that the challenges facing Norwegian school are not solved by requiring municipalities to pay for fruit at school, but by focusing on quality, follow-up and good teachers. This is why the majority of them are committed to increasing resources for the further training of teachers. One thing that is important to remember is that the school should focus on promoting students' physical and mental health, and in this it is also to facilitate time and gathering around meals and to strengthen students' awareness of diet and health. I would like to stress that the Progress Party is for a healthy diet, which includes fruit and vegetables in school, and therefore I would also like to point out the possibility that schools have of establishing a subscription scheme for fruit and vegetables according to the same model as school milk. Finally, the system of counselling is reversed, against which strong criticism has been raised for a long time. In particular, I would like to refer to the NOVA and the NIFU final report in the evaluation of teaching aid, where it appears that the teaching aid met little or no objective of supporting the learning work, the feeling of mastering and a good framework for self-employment. The reform also failed to meet the long-term policy objective of contributing to the cohesion of social differences in training. Another main feature of the report is the small contribution of teaching aid to changing the systematic differences in school outcomes associated with gender, socio-economic family background and migration background. The progression party has consistently been against compulsory homework for 1–4 students. the class introduced by the red-greens. We are therefore pleased, along with the vast majority of school owners, to have local self-government decide where to put homework. For me, it is important to stress that both teaching aid and early work are important, no matter what the school stage students are at, but in order to benefit from homework, it is essential that the school owner himself can allocate the resources associated with this as it is most appropriate in the individual school. We support the Ministry's assessments that schools themselves should have the freedom to direct the teaching aid towards some pupils, or across steps. In this way, the school owner will be able to target the effort where there is a greater need.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e216	There were good intentions behind the introduction of homework in school, and this is an important offer for many students. However, evaluations carried out by the lexicon, among others: by researchers at NOVA and NIFU, does not draw a clear picture of the performance of the training aid. Schools that increased the volume of learning aid in the context of the reform may indicate better performance over time. At the same time, the social differences in school outcomes at these schools have increased — contrary to the intention of the counselling system to contribute to the cohesion of social differences. The researchers have no clear answer as to why it is, and when we have a clear answer, it becomes all the more important to listen to those who work with it in practice, and who know where the shoe prints at each school. We therefore support the Government's proposals. Many school owners and school leaders want to be able to organise homework differently from today; they want more homework for older students, because that is where they believe the need is greatest. While it's great that those who need it get help with homework at school, the Christian People's Party believes that homework is also important for school-home cooperation. Lessons give parents the opportunity to follow what children are doing in the different subjects at school, what they are mastering, and what they need to do more. We know that engaged parents, who are involved in children's learning, are an invaluable resource for the children. The interest and commitment are valuable in themselves, regardless of the professional abilities and competences of the parents. In the view of the Christian People's Party, parents who engage should be a central objective of school-home cooperation in Norwegian schools, and homework and home work can be a good tool. Over to school fruit: the Christian People's Party sees the importance of children and young people having fruit and vegetables as part of their daily diet. There is a clear link between the intake of healthy and nutritious food and the ability to learn and concentrate. We therefore see it as an important task for the school — in cooperation with the home — to help all students get healthy and nutritious food during the school day, that they eat lunch, and that they get food packages from home. In some schools it may also be the right priority to offer free fruit and vegetables to students. In other schools, it may be a right priority to spend this money on other learning promotions. We therefore support the government's proposal to allow school owners and individual schools to make these assessments themselves and believe that the money that is currently earmarked for school fruit should ideally be made available as directly as possible by the school owners and schools. So to the proposal on the right to build on general study competence after completion of the course: this is a good proposal, which I think will help both reduce the drop-out and make the education system more flexible. I believe that the proposal will increase access to skilled skilled workers and provide more professionals with higher education and university education combined with professional experience and letters. We know that business and industry want more of that. With regard to the proposal to grant entitlement to youth training between 16 and 18 years of age applying for a residence permit, the Christian People’s Party notes that the Children’s Ombudsman, Red Cross and Red Child expressed concern that the proposal does not concern young people without legal residence in Norway. Fear The children recommend that all children be given the right to secondary education, regardless of their residence status, if a stay in Norway is likely to take more than three months. Furthermore, the proposal states that some hearing bodies have commented that, in the absence of a residence permit, the right to training should be valid until the expiry of the period of time fixed by the foreign authorities. The Christian People's Party shares these concerns and, as a matter of principle, the need for individual children's training should go ahead of so-called immigration-regulating considerations. The Christian People's Party supports the other government's proposals in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e239	I'm actually super happy today, and I want to start with the super happy case, and it's that with the decision when it comes to building up, it's finally established in law that students who have taken a professional letter have the right to build up. Why this is wise, many before me have explained, but it is a matter for which many of us have worked for many years. I would like to remind the House of the decision that was taken on 20 June last year: when the Stortinget unanimously decided that this right should be introduced, only the legal work has now remained. In addition to the right to build-up, a number of other measures were also taken to improve and develop more flexible vocational training last year. This is the first delivery of the Storting decision, as I see it. I think it might be a little small, not least when it comes to introducing the exchange model with financial resources, but today I think we should at least be glad that we have given a group of students an extended right to education. It'll be one year extra for those who want to. This means that students now do not have to rush and drop out of vocational training in order to take part in special studies within the three years of their youth right. This should also mean that the county council can strangle its offer of study specialisation for inclusion as a Vg3 offer, and we want as little as possible into that school year, as we see more than half of those who try to delete. It's a tragedy that we've now arranged to avert. I would like to say it again from Stortinget's speech seat: Norway needs more skilled workers. There will be no work for the architect, if he has no one to build the houses. So until what I'm a little over: this is another important brand day, because the majority, the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, today may have adorned themselves by removing the court students have had for free fruit and green in high school. You take from the little ones and give to the big ones. It seems a little poor and a little greedy. We know that we're living at a time when students get heavier and heavier and more and more inactive, and we know that many kids don't bring food packages at school. You can wave your moral index finger and think that this gets your parents to take care of, but it's about an apple. In the view of the Centre Party, offering school fruit is the first step on the way to introducing a school meal. I have visited several schools that offer school food. Some of the best examples I've seen are from Rogaland. At Ogna School, more than 200 students received simple and good food at a cost of $8 a day. So you don't need fancy solutions, but you have to think simple. I still hope that the majority parties will gradually see that it makes sense to introduce school food as a completely natural part of school life. In Europe, only Norway and Albania do not offer food at school. That we then take from the high school students the one apple they might have that day, is incredibly gnarly, I think. Finally, we are now making changes to the teaching aid scheme. The centre party initially wanted the lecture aid scheme to start further up the steps, so we support this proposal. There are certainly many who benefit from 1st class help, but it is probably especially from 4th to 5th. class that parents will face greater challenges in helping their hopeful ones. At the introduction of the scheme, I was heavily attacked by the current government parties because the offer was not to be made by pedagogical staff – which I sincerely believe is unnecessary as long as it concerns the lowest steps. The representative, Henrik Asheim, has just said that in a very good way. Now, on the other hand, the schools can put in the homework where they think it'll be most effective, but now there's no mention of educators with one single word. I want to quote from the Right and the Advance Party's own note from the setting when the Red-Green government introduced lecture help: ‘These members believe this demonstrates that the government is not concerned with ensuring the quality of the offer and will demonstrate that the government is on a collision course with a number of hearing bodies. These members believe that the arrangements for the statutory training aid will be more specific to storage when it is not to be manned by qualified teachers.» Well, that's pretty much what I'm saying. The bottle cap points back to the government parts. What's most serious is that we're now introducing a system that could be completely different to the students we've seen before. Then I expect the government to follow up the sea and its previous position and actually grant money for homework staffed by pedagogues, in the next year's state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e268	Like the representative Tyvand from the Christian People's Party, we in the Left have also noticed that several actors have expressed concern about the training of young people between the ages of 16 and 18 who do not have a residence permit. In the left, we have as a principle the need for individual training must go ahead of so-called immigration-regulating considerations. But we support the proposal as it stands in the vote now. As far as homework is concerned, it is our opinion that when the red-green government introduced mandatory homework at the lowest stages, the reactions in the schools were quite strong. We received many feedback from frustrated teachers, frustrated principals, and frustrated parents. First, many schools already had a well-functioning offer of homework. They had adapted it to the local conditions of the individual school as to both the class steps on which the teaching aid was offered and the practicality of its implementation. Many places also had good cooperation between schools and voluntary actors responsible for the teaching aid itself. It was reacted to the fact that the teaching aid was given at the lowest stages when many schools experienced that the learning pressure actually increased the higher in the primary school cycle. It was also felt that it was when the parents fell off and felt that they could no longer help the children with the homework. Having homework at the lowest levels was an important point for many schools, and the point was that it was done at home, just to strengthen school-home cooperation. In particular, as many people have been involved, it was criticised that the teaching aid, which was then compulsory, was to be provided by non-pedagogical staff. The joy we felt was great when the government parties agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the budget that homework would now change, and that the schools themselves would be given control over the funds involved. Now that we get this change in place, the schools themselves can assess where to put the homework aid. They're the ones who know where the shoe prints, and they're the ones who know which students want the best benefit from such a lesson aid. I'm absolutely sure that when we give the schools that trust, they'll show up that trust worthy and could get a lot more out of those means than if everything should be detailed here from the Stortinget. There is no doubt that a varied and healthy diet is important both for concentration and for public health in general. The left has also never been against fruit and green in school. What we've been critical of is that money should be tied up to fruit and green in the way that the red-greens did when they introduced a legal system of fruit and greens. Today, after this decision, schools are free to use parts of their school budget for school fruit, if they consider it an important measure to promote learning. And many schools are giving priority to spending money on school food today. We just heard the representative Tingelstad Wøien from the Central Party talking about Rogaland as a good example in that way. What is happening now is that the money that was previously legalized for school fruit is used to promote skills, such as the further training of teachers. Ideally, we in the left should wish that the money remained in school for free use, so that the schools could dispose of them freely. However, there is no doubt that there is also a need for skills-enhancing measures in schools. We are therefore satisfied with the re-prioritisation that is now taking place, because we believe that this is a good expression of the priorities of the new majority in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e285	There are many important issues in this case that have been raised, but there is one in particular that it is worth discussing, and that SV also responds to, simply fruit and green in the school. The red-green government introduced free spherical fruit in 2007. All the youngsters, nearly 300,000, have participated in the scheme. The aim is to provide children and young people with dietary habits that strengthen learning outcomes in schools. So it's not like the fruit and the green in the school isn't about learning. There's a myth Right has done everything possible to build up below. It's more important to bet on the teachers than on the apple, has our Right Refend. Let's bet on what's important -- not on bananas! When I heard Erna Solberg talk about scholastic fruit in the election campaign, I almost thought that the students lost some knowledge for each piece of fruit they took. But the truth is that free fruit and green is a learning measure. The brain is simply not alone, it's related to a body that needs nourishment and activity, which we'll discuss a little bit later. New research establishes a clear link between learning and nutrition. The cost of childhood has consequences for children's school performance. A U.S. study shows that lack of breakfast can go beyond learning opportunities and have an impact on the class environment. Sources that throw into much sweet, fat and processed food, typically junk food, risk worse results on IQ tests than children as a healthy one, according to studies. Trials with schoolmates in Norway also show a positive learning effect. In a questionnaire survey of students in Askim, 57 pst report. on an improvement in the school performance following the start of the school breakfast project by Østfoldhelsa and Østfold County. A study of the school food project at the Hundsund Youth School showed that students have increased consumption of fish and vegetables, are more saturated than before and experience a better learning environment and thus also better learning outcomes. Free fruit and green was for SV a contribution to healthy diet in the school. Actually, we would go a lot further. Our goal is healthy and free school meal for all the elephants. Free fruit and green was a start. Now we take a big step back. Governmentmates take schoolfruits from their students. I thought it was petty and ignorant, and a week after Minister of Health Bent Höie launched an expert group to advise him on public health. When this was presented, Bent Höie said: ‘The aim is to propose and initiate concrete measures to improve diet.’ He also said: ‘I think most consumers want to eat healthier food. But it is difficult for each of us to make such choices every single day." So the week after his removal, his government owns the free fruit and green scheme in the school – one of the few concrete dietary measures we have in the country today. It's hard to understand this as something other than an ideologically motivated shift. The public shouldn't be doing nutrition, it's a task for consumers and those who sell food, according to the new ideology. Removing fruit and greening is bad for the learning work and bad for public health work. The scheme costs over 200 million. kr – an amount the government has chosen instead to use on tax-free and boat engines. They move money from fruit to alcohol, and the losers are Norwegian elephants.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e310	I would like to add some comments to the various proposals in Prop. 68 L – first the lesson-aid scheme. In order to give municipalities and private schools greater freedom to decide for themselves how to organise the provision of homework locally, the government has made a proposal that the teaching aid scheme should apply to the entire primary school, i.e. 1st to 10th. years, not just 1–4. years, as at present. Today, the system of homework is 8 hours per day. weeks, broken down by these years. According to the proposal, homework should still have the same number of hours, but schools are free to distribute those hours over all the ten years of primary school. It will provide schools with flexibility and the opportunity to provide homework at the stages where they consider the need to be greatest, and — perhaps even more important — the teaching aid can also be targeted at some student groups on the step, or across steps, as long as the school offers the total number of hours of homework to be provided. It is very good that the former government parties – who introduced the earmarked, mandated scheme – have now changed their mind. I'm very happy about that. I also believe that this shows an ideological difference between the new majority versus the old, where the new majority is engaged in good schemes, but also believes that trust in the municipalities and trust in the schools is essential to ensure that they can manage this in a good and proper way. Primary and secondary education is a fundamental and important welfare performance in Norwegian society. The government therefore proposes that young people who are over the age of compulsory education but under the age of 18 and who are seeking residence in the country be entitled to such training. The government believes that access to training is an important measure for this group of young people. These, like other young people, need both education and something useful to fill your days with. For those who are later accommodated, training is of great importance in order to ensure faster integration and the transition to higher education and working life. The right to training shall, according to the proposal, apply when the youth is likely to be in the country for more than three months. Furthermore, the right shall remain valid until he/she is 18 years of age, but young people who are 18 years of age during a school year shall be entitled to complete the school year in which they have started. Those who reside in the country following a final decision rejecting the application for a residence permit and those who reside illegally in the country will not be entitled to training following the proposal. In the proposal, the government also proposes to abolish the obligation of municipalities and schools to provide pupils in secondary schools and in combined primary and secondary schools with tax-funded and statutory fruit and vegetables. Of course, fruit and greens are healthy. I have so far seen no research suggesting anything other than that. Nor is it that the public has no responsibility – a co-responsibility – for public health as well. That's what you have, and that's what this government is working on. The question here concerns priority. What is the most important priority in school? Nor can it be a surprise that this proposal comes from the government. We were clear and clear about this in the election campaign, and now, like in other things, we're doing what we said we should do. Of course, this does not mean that the school fruit regimes are going away. There is another support scheme from which there is some support, and the schools and municipalities can of course also give priority even if they want it. But instead, we have chosen to spend this money on other things that we believe – research-related as well – have an even better effect in providing students with more learning, including starting up the greatest post-secondary and continuing education gap in the world. When it comes to the right to build on general study competence, I share that view that everyone in the room has expressed, namely that this is a very good news. It was a budget the Stortinge adopted unanimously. There were funds both in the supplementary proposal that we presented and in the budget of the previous government. I believe that this is a very important contribution to ensure that fewer people see the need to move away and out, in order to find that taking a professional letter is not only one way to longer education, but that it can also be an important and good way to longer education, as we have been told in this room to call it. I must also mention that the exchange model is a reality today. The experiment with the exchange model, where you also get government money, has received – as I remember – $12 million. kr extra this year. I want to attach a few words to one of the last things, the police certificate when added to high school. You have to be careful when you require police clearance in new places. This proposal allows the National Colleges to require police clearance, and it provides a level playing field with other parts of the system that make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e329	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e333	My question is about homework, and it's about the Progress Party and the Right using quite strong words about the previous government's homework. They said among other things: that the teaching aid will have a more nature of storage when it is not manned by qualified teachers, that is, when the Stortinget is not legislating the manning of qualified teachers. All municipalities could definitely use qualified teachers if they wanted to. The Council of State says in its statement that it is now shown that you have confidence in the schools and municipalities. Did not the Right and Advance Party have confidence in the schools and municipalities during the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e340	The Right Party and the Advance Party have always had confidence in the schools and municipalities. The answer to the question, I think, is that once sin has first entered the world, one has to deal with it, in the sense that once the teaching aid has been introduced, as it was introduced by the red-greens, with the budgetary resources made available for it, we have to take it as a starting point. We originally wanted a different system. What we've done now is to make the scheme that the red-greens wanted to impose on schools at certain school stages, more flexible. Schools are more able to use the scheme as they please, but we have not changed the requirements, for example. to have pedagogues. You might have to come back to that, and it probably also has a budgetary impact, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e345	I also want to follow this up further, because the Council of State says that we need to carry out the homework in a good and proper way. The Council of State's own party, plus the Party of Advancement, said, lastly: ‘These members believe this demonstrates that the government is not committed to ensuring the quality of the offer [[...]] I now hear the Council of State say that we have put in place a system, so we're just going to extend it to everyone. That's exactly what was the whole point, I think, the last time the Right Party and the Advance Party wrote these comments, and in very rough order also in the debate the then government criticised not to insert pedagogues at the 1st – 4th stage, which we did not think was necessary. If we were to have it from the fifth step up, we thought it was necessary. I wonder now whether the Right Party and the Advance Party are no longer concerned with the quality they claimed in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e357	We're very concerned about, and we're going to continue to be concerned about, the quality of the training. It permeates both these proposals and all other proposals from the government, both in terms of continuing training and other important proposals. As far as this is concerned, I believe that today's system, and the one that the Stortinget has decided to go for now, is much better than the previous system, precisely because it gives the schools an opportunity to put homework as they like. So there's not going to be any change in either the allocation or the number of hours of homework you have, but the school has the opportunity, for example. to collect students across steps, to target the teaching aid to a greater extent, and – as the representative of the centre party also said – to insert it into the class steps where it is considered necessary. We have not proposed any additional funds for this in the budget, and that is to say, we are basing ourselves on the budgetary resources available there today. I believe that the Right Party and the Advance Party had a good and important point at that time, but it also requires a great deal of money that needs to be given priority to other things in the budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e366	To this, as the government and the state council now say that you can now collect it in several steps: it's nothing new, it's nothing. That's how it's been done in many schools. Many schools are already doing it today. They also did it at the school I worked for ten years ago, so there's nothing new in it. The point here is that government parties have criticized the previous government for not being concerned with quality, precisely because you didn't insert educators. As a mother, I would have trouble teaching my son in the 10th grade in mathematics, and I think there might be a lot of others who would also have. Should we then be able to accept that the teaching aid is carried out by an elephant assistant, which may be the offer, or do we want it to be carried out by a pedagogue? There is also a demand for more funds, which the Council of State has been in, and I expect the Council of State to come back to it if this lesson aid is to have the purpose that the government claims it should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e375	The whole point of the old scheme was that one was limited to 1–4. I believe that if this system were to be changed and imposed on pedagogical use, it would also have to follow state resources, all the time it is a state system. But it's clear that the municipalities and the school have an opportunity to use these funds as part of a larger lecture effort. If they want to use pedagogues, it's very good. I'm going to give them credit for that, but we're now proposing a system that's more flexible for school, that takes care of it very much in School-Norway, that's whether you can't get to spend this money where you think it's more reasonable, where local school sees that the pressure is greater and the need is greater. The government is now doing that. We've come up with that. Then we might get back to the other issues around the system at the later crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e380	The Councils of State and several representatives were involved in this with young people aged between 16 and 18 who do not have a residence permit. A number of actors, including: The Children’s Ombudsman, the Red Cross and the Red Child, have expressed concern about cutting out the training for these young people. I think that training is very important for all young people, whether there are people who have a residence permit in Norway or who are going to be sent out. Training has never been discarded. There is something you may need, whether you are going to continue your life in Norway, or whether you are going to go home to another country and continue your life there. My question to the Council of State is: does he not share the concern expressed here by the Children's Ombudsman, the Red Cross and the Red Children? Doesn't he share the concern that there might be a bit of a rough end to that training?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e387	I believe that the proposal that the government is making now, to which the Storting agrees, takes care of the international commitments that we have. I believe that immigration-regulating considerations – i.e. the need to have a strict immigration policy, which is consistent and which limits who is to enter and which is consistent when it comes to going out – are well balanced in terms of the young people involved. What we are proposing today balances it well, and you relate it to whether you have the right to stay or not. That, I believe, is a reasonable balance between the different principles and the concerns of, for example: The Children's Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e392	The Council of State says that the Right stands for the same thing in government as they did in opposition. They don't do that at all. While it was awful to use assistants to help kids up to 9 years of age with homework before the election, it's okay now to use assistants to help kids up to 13 years of age with homework now. Governments say it costs money – it was no longer in the budget. It also cost money before the election, but it is a question of what you choose. Before the election, the Right said no more oil money would be used. After the election, they took 4 billion. expenditure, but not one crown of which went to education, because the investment in continuing education and vocational training was paid by the cultural school hour and by fruit and vegetables. My questions are: why is it that the richest, who have got two of the four billion in tax cuts, get it from the oil fund, while the students have to pay for the investment in the school itself? Is it to bet on education and to do what you said before the election?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e399	Because the government's priorities. I am pleased that Trond Giske, who very often points out that it is not difficult to bet on e.g.. continuing training, because more oil money was spent, also recognises that there are clear priorities in this budget. Priorities are never easy. Fruit and vegetables were popular. A lot of people liked it. The cultural school class was also a system that was popular, which many liked. But we had a clear and clear priority, which we were completely open about and consistent on also in the election campaign. It was that we should give priority to what is most important for students to learn more. The most important thing for students to learn more is not the fruit and the green system. It's not the school class either, but it's strengthening the knowledge of the school, primarily by strengthening the teacher. We have done what we said in the election campaign and followed it up, among other things. through this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e404	It is quite right that this is about priority. It's possible to prioritize both of these things. That's what the red-green government has done, and what the new government has chosen not to do. I bit my mark in the medallion that occurred that the sin had been released, and thus one must stick to it. If homework is a sin that has been released, to which only one must stick, I wonder what in all the world is fruit and green. Fruit and green have simply not kept up — one has simply prioritised it away. Now that many elephants don't get fruit and green, because the municipalities do not give priority to it, because they don't have the money, is my simple question to the Minister of Knowledge: Does the Minister of Knowledge think it's a little stupid that the students don't get free fruit and green?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e412	Now it wasn't fruit and green immaterial during the fall, so it probably has a certain connection. My point of expressing it in a different way was simply to say that we have to start with the arrangements that they are today. I believe that the teaching aid is a sensible scheme. It now also believes a broad majority on the Stortinget. It makes it easier for the school to do exactly what many in school have asked us to do. Then I will be in charge – both now and in the budget – of the priorities we have done. Would I wish we didn't have to give priority at all times? Yes, I don't think there are any politicians in this room who shouldn't want to. But I, the government and the majority believe that the most important thing in school is to strengthen the teacher, that the students should learn more, to get a real-life strategy, and to make sure that not as many students today leave school without being able to read and write. In that list, fruit and vegetables are unfortunately far lower, while other measures are higher.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e421	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e426	In the context of the management of public health reports last year, a joint committee concluded the following objectives for public health work in Norway: Norway should be among the three countries in the world with the highest life expectancy, the population should experience several years of life with good health, well-being and reduced social health differences, and we should create a society that promotes health in the whole population. A joint committee concluded that in Norway we should reduce the incidence of the four major public diseases, which are cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, chronic lung diseases and cancer, by 25 pst. by 2025, in line with the World Health Organisation also recommends. Cost-effectiveness is an important measure to achieve this. Unfortunately, we have had a shift in government, and the lack of public health policy that we are now looking at in several fields means that we can forget these important objectives. One anti-public health measure is what we are dealing with today, lifting the obligation to give free fruit and green in the school. It was introduced by the red-green government. It was popular, and it has an effect. One should take away. It is argued that it is the responsibility of parents that children have food at school. But honestly, either parent is the one who feels threatened by his parental responsibility if the child gets a free orange at school every day? It is said that there is a small, accurate measure. But what measures can be more effective than serving children and young fruit and vegetables every day? Is a national centre a more accurate measure? It is said that they should give priority to learning promotions. Everything in politics is a priority. If we notice that something is prioritised in the revised national budget, almost the same amount is used to subsidise alcohol duty-free increases. So the government prioritises more cheap alcohol to the people than giving fruit and green to the elephants in the youth ball. I see that the representative Asheim said that he is too fruity, and that there should still be a subsidised scheme. That's very good. The schemes that are now in place become a subsidised scheme, but those who follow and look at the experience with it know that that scheme has been strongly criticised for increasing social health differences. How can a population increase accept such a scheme when we otherwise talk so nicely about measures to reduce social health inequalities? Finally, the Christian People's Party and the Left have written in their comments that the schools themselves should give priority to these actions. Yes, that's a pious wish. The point is that not only removes the obligation, but also removes the money. I don't think that the Christian People's Party and the Left actually believe in what they themselves write in their own comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e435	Some words about fruit and green in school. The representative Asheim said in his post that there was a need for fruit and vegetables in school, but that there is also further training for teachers. That's what this government has prioritised. Or as the representative said, we have prioritised teachers in front of pears. The representative of Asheim is right in saying that it's about priorities, but the truth is that this government has prioritised tax reliefs, which many people have had before me, in front of me, among other things. fruit and vegetables at school. We all agree that continuing training for teachers is important. We are pleased that the government is following up the work that was started in the previous period. We all agree that it is important with good teachers who can do their job and who are good at learning from themselves. Equally important is that the students are concentrated and susceptible to the learning that is actually being given. All research clearly shows that fruit and vegetables are important in this way. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left have underlined this themselves, but they are therefore involved in the government's journey in this matter. It doesn't help how good the teacher is, if the kids aren't motivated to receive the learning that is actually being given. So I just want to underline: I agree with the representatives of Knag County, Giske and Toppe who took this up. Priorities made available in a budget relate to the entire budget. It's not about one budget chapter. The truth is that the priorities that this government is doing are not to give priority, for example. fruit and vegetables, but tax relief is the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e444	In this case, a number of minor changes are made to the Education Act, the Private School Act and the National Higher Education Act, which all have in common that they should contribute to making Norwegian school even better. The government's clear ambition to realize the knowledge nation is to give priority to it. The most important thing for quality in Norwegian school is the teacher. This is why the government places great emphasis on teachers, both in terms of continuing training and in terms of teacher training and possible career paths for teachers. Two of the changes we are making today are about abolishing state leaders in how the school owner – the municipality or county municipality – organizes school everyday life. For many years we have had a debate on fruit and vegetables at school, and today we are taking the debate again in full swing here in the main hall. I feel absolutely sure that the municipalities themselves will decide whether to offer fruit at the school or not. I think it is wrong to use the law to require schools to buy fruit for their students. There is nothing wrong with serving fruit and vegetables, but that the state should take the lead in this, I believe it is wrong. I think it is important that the state prioritises what is its most important task, namely to provide quality in school by making high demands on content and training itself. When Knag Fylkesnes says that priority is important, and he wants to prioritise both parts, I don't call it priority. In the case of teaching aids, we are now making changes by removing the state leadership that meant that the homeworker was only required from the first to the fourth step. In the evaluation of this scheme, it appears that the teaching aid did not meet the objectives of the scheme. The reform also failed to meet the policy objective of contributing to the cohesion of social differences in training. In fact, students with the lowest socio-economic background seem to have progressed somewhat, while other students have progressed. The knowledge base for maintaining this leadership is mildly said to be weak, and therefore it is with good reason that we remove these leaders and allow the school owner to decide how the teaching aid scheme, which I believe is a good one, should be organised locally. One of the main tasks of the government is to realise the knowledge society, and then to keep the right course and ability to prioritise. I believe that we are now step by step strengthening the school and the school's opportunities to be the knowledge institution we want the school to be. We give priority to other measures that strengthen school more than fruit – simply. We also leave it up to the school owner to organize the homework where it has the greatest effect. I am glad that today we are changing the Education Act, the Private School Act and the National School Act, so that we get better quality and greater flexibility for schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e457	I felt called to take the word as I was mentioned by two co-representatives. Priorities are something to which the Workers' Party at least has a relation when they are in government. Some of the last working party did before they left the government after the election, was to present their own government budget together with the SV and the Central Party, and in that budget at least they prioritised. There they prioritised NOK 0 more for the further training of teachers – NOK 0 more – while giving priority to the statutory system of fruit and vegetables. When we get a new majority, with a new government – which had promised to invest in continuing training of teachers rather than the fruit and vegetables system – it's a little strange that they are shocked that we have a different priority. Then the question, as the Council of State was also talking about: what is the best way to learn? I don't think anyone stops learning from eating fruit, but I think you learn more from a good and advanced teacher. For this reason, the government increased its appropriations in the budget and they are further increased in the revised national budget. 3 500 teachers receive continuing training with the policy of this government. Then the question that we politicians have to ask ourselves is: when parents go to Rimi, do they find howl meters with post- and further-educated teachers? The answer to that is no. But they find lots of fruit. The question remains: what are we politicians to do as a priority? We know what the red-green majority prioritised in its proposal for the government budget for this year, and we know what the new majority prioritised. I'm very proud, I, that we have a government that prioritises the teacher in front of the fruit and vegetable system. It's worth remembering that when the red-green parties had a majority and presented their last state budget before they had to go off, they prioritised NOK 0 for further training of teachers, but SEK 200 million. kr for fruit and green.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e468	I want to make the following comments – and then I'm going to start from the first post to Henrik Asheim, where he talked about the right choosing teachers over pears: we don't do this for fruit growers, I want to point out, we do it for the student. Let's pick the student. But in addition, in our alternative budget, we are able to bring further training to teachers – and fruit and vegetables. Then I want to say the following, too, in view of the fact that both the Council of State and the representative Asheim have mentioned that we are almost in shock: we are not in shock. This is a very normal political debate, in which there is a very normal political disagreement. The right has to tolerate getting criticism for something that is not research-based. It's not knowledge based, the position they stand for. And it's going to be a funny cut of the state council Höie's public health initiative, to which the SV representative pointed. I think what emerges from the debate is a kind of one-sided vision of knowledge. That the teacher teaches well in mathematics – of course it is essential. Of course, we need well-trained teachers who have competence in their subject, who have educational education, who are able to communicate their subject. But that's not just what has to be in place in a school. We have to build schools with healthy air, we have to have a play environment and areas around the school, so that children can unfold in other ways, we have to have gyms, we have to have a school kitchen, we have to have a school environment, and the students have to have student democracy – we have to have a lot of other good things around the school, and food is actually quite important. If you're exhausted, if you haven't eaten, you learn badly, and you can have the world's best math teacher, but my claim is that it's not safe it goes in. The one-sided focus on the fact that the only thing that matters is a very, very good math teacher is going to be wrong. A good math teacher is very important, but we have to combine it with other things. It seems to me that the Right has run completely stuck in one track and does not accept that there are other things that need to be in place when you're going to have a good school. A comprehensive school environment also needs to be in place, and then we're going to have really good teachers as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e477	I would also like to stress that there is no one, at least not in the red-green opposition parties, who is being shocked by the Right Cuts in the School budgets. It may be that some of the voters to the Right did not quite see it coming, but we were probably very prepared for that to happen. I think we see the drawing of what the debate will be like in the next three years. This means that later on, like the school budget is a given size, and within the given size, we have to choose between the most important and the less important. For example, why do you have to do this? have free school books in primary school? These are things you can go and buy — perhaps in the future also at Rema — while re-educated teachers we have to take care of the school budgets. There's no need to think like that. You can, for example: think it's more important to spend 2 billion. kr extra in school than 2 billion. kr – exactly – on tax cuts for those who make more than 1 million. kr in Norway. Of 4 billion NOK which was used from the oil fund, went 0 out of 10 kroner to bet on education. All efforts at education were paid for by cut in offers for students in school. There is no doubt that postgraduate teachers are more important for learning than fruit and green. Whether it is more important for public health is another issue, so it is also a matter of seeing some policy contexts. If the Minister of Knowledge and the Minister of Health spoke together, it might turn out to be a very profitable investment to provide a favourable and good diet for students. But it is also such that to the seventh and last, it is the municipalities that pay the main burden for the salaries of teachers and for the organization of learning. That's where the red-green government spent over 70 billion. kr more in the eight years we were sitting – also in the state budget for 2014 there was a solid increase. Now, in 2015, municipalities will have unpaid bills, including on the Minister of Knowledge budget – to children's playgrounds that are not covered. Even after the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, it will continue to lack a place between 0.5 and 1 billion in 2015. kr to cover the nursery bill. It has to be taken from a place. So if you later like that cutting fruit and green produces a huge effort for Norwegian school, while making sure that those who pay the school budgets don't have the money to follow up the fine words — well, then you've priorityed wrong. It is not that the knowledge budget is given. We can choose to bet on school and education rather than on other areas, for example: Billions in tax cuts – if we want. They'll be red-green. Government parties don't want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e496	Prioritizing is an incredibly important task. Today, when we have had a debate on how to ensure a good knowledge school, we must also have a whole: how are we going to ensure Norwegian competitiveness? For the Right and the Government, it has been very important to see the whole of politics. There is no doubt that both tax relief – which ensures that business has a good framework – that we are going to lack 20 000 teachers by 2020, and that seven out of ten in the Education Association want a continuing education reform and a boost, are involved in saying something about how we enable our society to meet the challenges of building a welfare society. It's about making sure that business gets good workers in the future, that we have a teaching profession that is perceived as attractive, that we get the best minds to apply to education, that we have a school where filling up with knowledge is constantly becoming part of the normal and not part of anything extraordinary. That's what this government is now working towards, that's a real, solid continuing education promise that's going to be part of the everyday school life, which is going to help all teachers who today feel they need to fill up, to get that opportunity. Before we made this promise, only about 1,500 teachers in Norway received further training each year. There were periods when there were more vacancies than there were applicants. Much of this was due to the economic conditions attached to the continuing training scheme. Communicate badly with the economy. We know that the rates for the temporary workers were not real in relation to the wage needs either. This government has given 3 500 teachers the opportunity to continue their training. We have a scholarship scheme in place to enable some of the 4000 people who received approved further education to receive a scholarship. We've added 50 million. kr, which allows the capacity to be increased in the case of continuing training in Norway and which allows us to continue to invest in the future. This was a relationship that was not in place when we joined. I think it's strange that we stand here discussing priorities and that the teacher is the most important thing, when it turns out that everyone who had power in this room over the last eight years before us has not prioritised the teacher – which is the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e509	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e523	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e532	This case concerns a proposal from the Left, which reads: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case on a specific level of competence for primary school graduates who lack teaching skills for the steps they teach.’ In spite of its short life span, the Committee has repeatedly consistently established that teachers with a high level of professional and pedagogical competence are crucial in the development of a good school, even though the debate in this Chamber on Tuesday showed a few small shades of what is the right competence, where. What this proposal for a representative is ultimately about is competence – the teaching skills that currently work and work in Norwegian classrooms every day. As stated in the draft representative, figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that this is approx. 9 400 added to Norwegian school – 3.3 pst. of the years of teaching — lacking teaching skills. The same survey shows that more than half of them have upper secondary education or lower. The remainder have university and higher education but have not accepted pedagogical education. The number is high, but we're not going to get too attached to numbers and percentages. We know that this figure is composed of a variety of factors — vicariates, students undergoing education, educational support staff, etc. There is no point in explaining the number so much that we overshadow the fact that teachers without formal qualifications are taught too often in Norwegian school. There will be a great need for qualified teachers in the years to come. This proposal for a representative goes straight to the core when we talk about securing the teaching skills of the future. It is about further developing the skills of those who already have a leg inside, of those who have already chosen the school as a job, but who lack some of the formal education. There is a need for better knowledge of the formal background of this group of school staff. This is why it is good that the Department has started work on identifying the competence of primary school teachers and the degree of professional immersion. Such monitoring is absolutely necessary in order to know what input needs to be made in order to give teachers the skills required. When such monitoring is ready, it is important that we adapt efforts, for example by adapting the provision of continuing education and training, so that we get more teachers with the right skills. Finally, the school owner is responsible for the day-to-day operation of the school, for recruitment and to facilitate the development of skills. They have a responsibility to ensure that the workforce they have is in line with the requirements and needs of the school. We have recently introduced skills requirements in school education. The overall objective must be to provide employees in teaching positions with good opportunities to acquire formal competence, in line with these requirements. More than half of the teachers who lack formal teaching skills have university and higher education. It is therefore natural and necessary to look at the opportunities available to other professional groups and professionals to gain education skills at school. Provision of PPU training and organisation should be considered in particular. In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State points out that there are some capacity challenges associated with achieving the objective of ensuring adequate professional immersion for all teachers in the short term. This isn't hard to understand. In spite of this, it is nevertheless necessary that this objective be clearly confirmed by Stortinget. This is a majority position. I don't think that's necessary, but to be on the safe side, I recommend the committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e561	In this case, the Left has put forward a proposal for a representative that the government should present a separate case on a specific level of competence for those in primary school who lack teaching skills for the steps they teach. There is no doubt that good and qualified teachers are a prerequisite for a good school. When we know that there are a large number of non-qualified teachers – there are many who lack qualifications in the subject they teach, and there are many who lack pedagogical education – it is important that we do something about the situation. One of the main government projects is just to realize the knowledge nation. This means that education and research have a high priority. I think everyone who's concerned about knowledge has noticed, and it's also obvious that the government's teaching effort is an important part of strengthening the quality of school. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the Government has proposed several measures to strengthen teacher training and the attractiveness of the teaching profession. The government plans to dimension the continuing education system so that this objective can be achieved for all teachers in the longer term. The government will also transform teacher training into a five-year master's course. In addition, a special ceiling on mathematics is announced, prioritising part of continuing education for mathematics. In the State budget for 2014, the first phase of the stepping up of the investment in continuing education was carried out with a significant increase in funding, and we see that the investment will be further strengthened in the revised national budget. It's now in use over 600 million. for continuing training of teachers and principals in initial training. We experience that high-recorded teachers will start further training in the autumn of 2014. A total of 3550 teachers can receive further training during this year. I support the proposalers' conclusion that a level of competence is necessary for teachers. On the other hand, I see no need to ask the government to come back to Stortinget with their own case as long as the government works so widely with these questions and involves the Storting in an appropriate way along the way. The government is well in the process of facilitating teacher competence development. We see that teachers are asking for development of skills to a much greater extent than before, and we also see that municipalities are following up. The most important input for a good school is the teacher, and I am glad that the government prioritises a large-scale investment on the teacher. After just under a year at Stortinget, we have received a lot of concrete evidence of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e576	The Progress Party is pleased that there is a cross-political consensus on the need to strengthen school competence. We therefore support the intention of the representative proposal, which contains a lot of wisdom, and which provides a good description of today's situation and needs in School-Norway. Competence building and good teachers are important. For some years now, we've had GNIST, which had good intentions. However, interim reports may indicate that the GNIST campaign has had a limited impact. It is therefore gratifying that the Right Party government is now intensifying the work of recruiting more teachers at several levels, so that you are not locked up to a single project. It is important to think without prejudice in this area and see past old ideological dividing lines. We have to deal with reality and give priority to the most important thing: knowledge-building and commitment to the teacher. In school policy, the government has great and, not least, realistic ambitions. Measures such as: strict standards of teacher's density know we have little to say about the quality of education, and not least we know that it is not feasible in the real world, as the facts of this proposal clearly show. Today, it is estimated that approx. 9 400 were admitted to Norwegian primary school – approx. 3.3 pst. of the years of teaching — lack of formal teaching skills. In other words, it is a significant challenge we are facing. The Ministry has started work on improving the knowledge base on the competence of teachers and the degree of professional immersion in primary school. Such monitoring is necessary to know what is needed to achieve the required competence for teachers. The provision of continuing training needs to be adapted to the findings of such monitoring. There must be a greater focus on network education and decentralised provision of further education in place. It will enable even more people to increase their skills. It also needs to be seen in the context of an expressed ambition to get other professionals and professionals into school and how they will achieve their teaching skills. Provision of PPU training, which was also covered by the rapporteur, and the organisation here should be assessed in particular. In this work, flexible and unbureaucratic arrangements with great opportunities for local adaptation need to be introduced, where cooperation with business, mentoring and real-world competence becomes a key factor. It is an enormous responsibility that lies in the teaching powers of Norwegian school. It is those who are responsible for enabling children to become safe value-creating citizens who will play an important role for society in the future. The ability of teachers must also be used in the best possible way. The focus on education and research is on ensuring a sustainable welfare society. Human capital is the largest value in Norway, accounting for about 80 pst. of our national wealth. We need to recruit good people for teacher training, but at least as important it is to take care of those who are already working in school, and to ensure that they have development opportunities and make the best possible use of their potential. Aristotle said that the foremost characteristic of having real knowledge is the ability to learn away. That's the core of the teaching thing, both professional and teacher competence. With a continued intensive focus on teaching skills in schools, effective use of skills and a commitment to the further development of teaching staff skills, both professional and pedagogical, Norway is well placed to go where we belong, at the top of the world. The Progress Party therefore supports the intention of the proposal to ask the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner to raise a specific level of competence for primary school graduates who lack teaching skills for the steps they teach.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e595	The school needs good teachers, and fortunately we have thousands of good teachers in Norwegian school who do a great job for our children every single day. But we need even more, and we need to make sure that those who work at school have the professional and pedagogical skills required. In order to achieve this, we need to ensure that we have a top-class teacher education, that we succeed in recruiting the right candidates into this education and into the teaching profession, and that those who are currently employed in school without formal teaching skills are given the opportunity to obtain it. We know that half of the teachers who lack formal teaching skills have other university and higher education. Many of them certainly also have other valuable skills and experience from work, from business, which make a valuable contribution to the school. I think that's good. I am absolutely sure that an engineer, an economist or one with a completely different professional background can have a lot of positive input into Norwegian school, and I think it is important to look at how these people who want to work at school can get the formal skills that are needed. I think we need to look at the PPU training and evaluate special arrangements, so that we can give more good forces a way into the classroom. But we need more knowledge and more information about who these people are employed in school without formal education skills, in fact. It is apparent from the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Committee that the Department has started work on improving the knowledge base on the competence of teachers and the degree of professional immersion in primary school. That's good. So I fully support the intention of the Left – it is my experience that all parties do – but we know that the Department is already working on this subject. I am pleased, and I believe that it is natural that we are today asking the government to return to the Stortinget in a suitable way for a special level of competence for those who are admitted to primary school who lack the teaching skills for the steps they are teaching. Then I just have to comment briefly on something the representative Sivert Bjørnstad said. He said that strict standards of teacher's density do not raise the quality of teaching. I disagree. I believe that increasing teacher density will make it easier for the teacher to adapt the training to the individual student. It'll raise the quality. There's also research evidence to say. We know that increasing teacher density is positive for the weakest students, for students with a different ethnic background and for students with a low socio-economic background. These are the students we find in special education, and these are the students we find in non-response statistics. Therefore, a commitment to increasing teacher density, and especially at the lowest level, would have been a good way to solve the major challenges in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e606	I want to thank the Left for once again putting this issue with non-qualified teachers on the agenda. The central part shares the idea that we still have a job to do. Teachers with good education are needed to achieve the best learning outcomes for our young people, because it is actually the kids that are most important in school – not the teacher. A number of measures have been put in place since then to increase the status and competence of teachers who have already been trained and to attract new ones. In 2008, the red-green government launched the GNIST campaign, which was to increase the number of qualified initial applicants for teacher training by 50 pst. It was a goal. We actually managed to do that despite what you can get the impression after representatives have previously expressed that it has been a failure. Actually, it hasn't been. The GNIST campaign was incredibly important. From 2008 to 2012, the search for teacher training increased by 57 pst. Then it was a flare, and now we hear that the coordinate recording this year shows that we have an increase in teacher training. I am very pleased, but it also tells me that a campaign like GNIST must not only work for a short period of time – this is actually something that must happen continuously. We will always need competent teachers – from here to eternity! Unfortunately, it has been the case that the teaching profession and, to the extent that other welfare professionals have had low status. Everyone has an opinion about the teacher, because everyone has been in one. Everyone has had a good teacher, and everyone has had a bad teacher. A good teacher isn't necessarily the same thing as one who's had one in all subjects. In the teacher's profession, it's more like counting, just like in other subjects, like for example. the health and care profession. The teaching profession has had lower status in the late decades, among other things. in the light of changes in the labour market and a strong oil-powered economy, and because the public has not been able to follow the growth of private industry. Status usually follows pay, but not always. So until the many people who, despite not being trained for it, work at school. ==References== 9 000 students in school do not have teaching skills, it says in the poll. Estimates are based on SSB statistics. It is estimated that 1 640 annual works – the figure comes from the GSI. How many exactly are less important, as the representative Bjørnstad was about, than the fact that there are very many. Nevertheless, it is important to be aware that not all of these 1,600 year works are teaching positions, which apply to those who are not in the process or who do not have plans for education. I have read ‘Strategic Competence Development Plan for Educational Work in Uppland County Municipality 2014-2018’ to get little idea of what is going on locally. This is a plan for a county municipality with 13 secondary schools, a large technical school, two public schools and regional career centres. That was interesting reading. The County Council describes the maritime framework and objectives, but it also describes each school, how many people lack teaching skills, whether they are professionals, PPUs or skilled teachers, at each place of study, how many of them are studying, and how many are without formal competence, who are self-employed, etc. I read the plan for a county council, so I guess this will vary slightly for a municipality in terms of competence needs. But I expect all municipalities and county councils to have competence development plans for their employees, both with and without formal education. I expect that there are these plans the Council of State would like to have transparency in order to better respond to what input needs to be put in. It says that the results of that survey will be available in spring 2014, so I hope that we get an insight into this already today, because I feel basically that there is only one coming out of the door here. So I think we can establish one thing: decentralised and online and video-based teacher education and practical education will be needed. We're talking about people who are added to the districts of the country, and who, after all the sunmarks, will take part-time education. In this way, teaching needs to be facilitated in a flexible way. I look forward to the Council of State coming to Stortinget with a plan for how he intends to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e630	The matter we are now discussing is an important matter for the Left, and something we have been concerned about for a long time. Throughout almost the last period, the representative Trine Skei Grande was at the top of the barricades to get something done with the number of non-qualified teachers in Norwegian school. We promoted representative proposals, and we were also, at least in the media, expressed support for it by one of the government parties at that time, but we did not get a majority in the Stortinget, which I think is a sin primarily for Norwegian students, who deserve to have teachers who have the formal background in order. This is because the formal competence of the teachers is important for the learning outcomes of the students. Therefore, employees with good professional and pedagogical education are the very foundation of the school today. I think there is a broad consensus on the teacher's key role in good teaching, and that it should therefore be worrying when the figures show that a total of 9,400 Norwegian school staff today lack educational competence. It is clear that the formal competences of those who lack teaching skills vary, but it is likely that a significant proportion of them only have secondary education or lower education and without pedagogics, with which several have been involved. This gives room for reflection. But it is important to stress that even those who work at school today who called non-qualified teachers do a good job, and they are important contributors to students' learning. These are people who have chosen to work at school because they like to work with children and young people, because they like to be part of a training situation, and they are important for Norwegian school in the future too – especially in view of the expected lack of teaching skills we will have in the years to come. As we in the Left see it, it is necessary to take further steps to ensure that teachers who teach in Norwegian school actually have the teaching skills for the steps they teach. Some employees, in particular those with higher and lower higher education and higher education but without pedagogics, are not likely to require a particularly high level of competence, while those with lower and lower secondary education and without pedagogics need significantly more education. In any case, systematic work must be done to ensure that all students in Norwegian school are trained within a reasonable time by teachers who are professionally qualified for it. This is one of the main priorities of the Left to get started in this magnification period. We are therefore pleased that a majority in the Committee supports our proposal that the government should present a case on a specific level of competence for primary school graduates who lack teaching skills for the steps they teach. I had hoped that there was an overall committee that could support this proposal, but I take note that the government parties and the Christian People's Party support the intention and ask the government to come back to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner with a special pledge for these matters. I assume that the Minister of Knowledge will follow up on the first occasion. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation and good work done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e647	It is very good that the Storting discusses this as a starting point. That means that we all agree that the key to getting an even better school is to lift the teacher. There are a lot of good teachers in Norwegian school today. Every day, good teachers go to work, teach kids to crack the reading code, teach them to figure out their first math piece, teach them history, teach them social skills and teach them practical skills. And just because there are so many good teachers, and because research is so unambiguous that the teacher is the key to an even better school, we know that investing in doing good teachers is even more important. According to the OECD, Norway is among the countries that spend the most money in primary and secondary education. National statistics show that primary school teachers have remained very stable for a long time. At the same time, international studies show that the results for Norwegian students are not at the global level. In other words, there's no direct match between the resources we have available and the results we get out. The government's ambition is clear: we want all students to meet a teacher who masters their subject, who is enthusiastic, and who is able to convey knowledge in a good way. That's why our main priority is to make good teachers even better. There is not a form where you can check everything that makes a teacher good. Available knowledge overviews still paint an image: the best teachers master their subject well, they thus have formal competence, they create a positive climate in the classroom, and they vary teaching according to the needs of the students. I share the concerns of the representatives of the Left about the large number of non-qualified teachers in Norwegian school. This number we want to reduce, for example. through the greatest continuing training effort of the ages. According to GSI national statistics, the proportion of annual work for teaching staff without basic education has varied relatively much since the early 1990s, with two peaks around 2000 and 2010. In recent years, the proportion has been around 3 to 4 pst. of all annual educational works. In addition, the Government has proposed in the Sundvolden Declaration several measures to strengthen teacher training and the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Among other things, mastering for teachers will be an important contribution to this. Employees in primary school without a recognised competence for education at the stages in which they teach — i.e. those who have a teacher’s education but do not have competence for the stage in which they teach — can today apply for teacher training, possibly combined with a real assessment of competence. We also want to give priority to tightening up the requirement to be able to teach and come back to the Storing with that. In the Health Declaration, the government has determined that from the first stage all teachers must be immersed in the basic subjects in which they teach, and the government plans to dimension the continuing education system so that this goal can be achieved for all teachers in the longer term. We will do this in close dialogue with both the university and higher education sectors, the school owners and teacher organisations. The capacity of the university and higher education sector for the further education of teachers is not sufficient to achieve the objective of professional immersion in the basic subjects of all teachers in the short term, even with the government's great commitment, but universities and colleges have shown their willingness to contribute to the increase of capacity in the first phase. There has been a significant expansion of the offer. Nor is it likely that the school owners will not be able to carry out such a short-term level of competence, as continuing education requires adequate access to teacher vicars. Therefore, together with school owners, we need to plan how we can make the best possible use of the capacity in the provision of continuing training over time, while at the same time ensuring that the need for temporary workers does not go beyond the quality of education. In the State budget for 2014, the first phase of the stepping up of the focus on continuing education was carried out with a substantial increase in the allocation. The initiative was further strengthened in the revised national budget. More than 600 million are now being used. for further training of teachers and principals in initial training, and the effort has obviously taken on a need both for teachers and school owners. Record-breaking teachers will start further training in the autumn of 2014. A total of 3550 teachers can receive further training in 2014. The further investment in continuing training must be based on a good knowledge base that the Ministry is now collecting. I support the proposalers' conclusion that there is a need for a level playing field for teachers, and that is to say that the government is already running.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e662	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e666	In his speech, the Council of State said that he had intended to strengthen the requirements for further education in the field – in addition to what the red-green government has already done. I have two questions. Firstly, this also applies to the practical-esthetic subjects, such as: food and health or design, where my impression is that education today is to a large extent carried out by non-qualified people – that is, those who do not have a vocational education? It worries me a lot. Secondly, does the Council not see that this will help to increase the number of ‘non-qualified’ categories when the requirements are strengthened for those who are already in school today? Can the Council of State say anything about how he intends to meet that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e675	The short answer is that this is what we're going to get back to Stortinget with. But I can relate some considerations to the question. There was now a requirement for competence – i.e. the need for depression in the teaching disciplines. If you want to extend the depression requirements, it is clear that in the short term it will mean that fewer meet the requirements – i.e. that more do not meet the requirements. This is why it is vital that a system of continuing training be set up at the same time to ensure that the requirements are met in the long term. I think that's the sensible way to do it. It is necessary to develop the system for continuing training, while at the same time improving the requirements. In terms of practical-esthetic subjects, there is no requirement for competence in relation to them in the same way. But I want to market that the continuing training promise also applies to practical-esthetic subjects. The rate taken by the State has also increased to 60 pst., so the State takes a greater part of the bill for those who want to take further training in practical-esthetic subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e682	My question is about resource use in continuing education for those who are already trained, compared to those who are non-qualified teachers in school. Now we're going to spend a lot of money. A lot of money has already been spent – and we will continue to do so – on the continuing training of teachers. But how has the Council of State intended to give priority to the non-qualified in school, when large amounts are now to be spent on the continuing training of teachers? How is the priority between those who are non-qualified and those who are already trained teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e689	We'll be quite clear on the concept, so I'm quite clear on what I'm responding to as well. One group is teachers who have teaching skills but who do not necessarily meet the new skill requirements for immersion in the subjects in which they teach. The other group is those that I do not think we should call ‘unqualified’, as the representative did not, but ‘non-teacherly qualified’. They work there, but do not have formal teacher training. It's a very different group. This could be done, for example, by: be assistants, or there may be someone with a higher education but who has not taken the pedagogy. In the last few years, no concrete and direct action has been taken against this group. Many of them already have a job at school, want it, and it's probably easier to recruit them into the teaching profession than it is to pick people up from outside. I think we should address that. Of course, one key is to have more flexible PPUs, so for example. those who have a master’s degree at the bottom may combine being in school with taking the pedagogics.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e700	The council repeats what he has said in this room several times before, that there is a lack of consistency between how much resources we spend on teachers in Norwegian school and what we get left for it. Government parties have repeatedly used this as an argument against increasing teacher density in school. However, the situation is that special education consumes an increasing proportion of school resources, in parallel with increasing group size in Norwegian school. My question is whether the Council of State shares my and the Christian People's Party's concerns about this development, and whether it is not just increasing the teacher's density in ordinary education – and especially in the lowest class stages – could help reverse this development and ensure that we actually get more back on the resources we use in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e707	The answer to the question is yes, I share that concern. That's three things. First of all, we need more teachers. That's why we're so busy recruiting more teachers. There'll be more students, and we'll need more teachers so that the teacher's density doesn't go down. We are busy getting more in, among others. through career paths and further training — Master’s programmes, I think, can also make an important contribution to this. Point 2: What research points to — research rarely gives a clear fasititude to such questions — is that having more teachers in themselves has little effect, unless you also change the teaching methods and the pedagogical approach. Besides, it's very expensive. This means that what the government has prioritised first, is that further education builds teams in the school – building up a master's degree. But to take the third point, I fully agree with the representative that there is a problem that we have to address, that very much resources go to the special education that in many places could probably have been used to strengthen ordinary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e714	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It is quite right that research cannot prove that it will have any effect if you only increase the number of teachers or reduce the number of students per teacher without changing the teaching. But the point is that it will be easier for the teacher to adapt the teaching if there are fewer students in the classroom, possibly two teachers in the classroom. What we see from the research is that this will help those students who are weaker, those who have a different ethnic background, and those who have a low socio-economic background. These are, as I said in a previous post, exactly the same students that we find in special education today and in non-response statistics. Isn't this a very accurate tool to help these students?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e721	If you do reorganizations at a school, or if you use the scheme that the majority of the Stortinget, including the government, has continued, where there were 600 extra years of teaching from the state that is distributed in the municipalities of certain schools, and get better education through it, it's very good. I think we should learn lessons when that project is finished, when state funding is initially going out, and see if it has worked. So the question is accurate. What needs to be done in this area, too, is to give priority to what is most important. I think it's very important for more teachers – as said: the teacher's recruitment must continue. If the state were to spend its resources primarily on raising the number of teachers into school, such as those. have been involved in Sweden, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that there is a poorer match between the money spent on it and the result you get again, compared to betting on, for example. further training, competence, team construction at school and depression.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e728	This matter is about giving the teachers who are in school today and who lack the necessary skills. Now the Council of State has received quite clear feedback from its own that he needs to get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a special level of competence for those we are talking about here. Of course, we are somewhat disappointed that the Right and the Advance Party are not voting in favour of our proposal when they were in favour of an almost equivalent proposal in the previous period, and we should naturally like the Council of State to call for the proposal to be voted on. I would like to point out the question that Marianne Aasen asked: if we are talking about them – of the 9400 – who have advanced or less, what will the Council of State actually do to increase their competence, and when can we expect the Council of State to come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with a matter of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e735	I can assure the representative and the proposers that we have not started working on this now, yesterday, or last week, because there is a proposal for a decision in Stortinget – we are doing this. There is a reason why the study has been ordered, and I have also said clearly that we will come back to the Stortinget with this, in terms of policies and plans. Our continuing training effort is part of that, but more will also be involved. on competence. If you only have high school, you don't have formal education skills, so there's two questions here. One applies to those who do not have formal education skills, i.e. not teacher training, and the other to those who have teacher training but do not have, for example, teacher training. depression in the Norwegian language, even if they teach in Norwegian, or depression in mathematics even if they teach mathematics. Both parts I believe we should do something with.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e740	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e756	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e765	As the case rapporteur, I would first like to be informed of a typographical error in the setting. This concerns the majority comment on page 3, second column. There, the majority, the Labour Party, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party believe that it is «very important to contribute to increasing the daily physical activity of the students». The plural comment shall stop after this. The further clarification that this is going to happen within today's hours is the Christian People's Party and the Center Party that is behind it. Then I'll be allowed to thank the Cooperation Committee on this matter, and the Centre Party for a good initiative, even though this time we don't seem to be able to get together on a common proposal that can ensure at least 1 hour of physical activity in school. As I see it, this is an objective that is behind all parties, but as so many times before, when proposals for physical activity in school have been debated and dealt with in the Storting, the consensus of good intentions stops. This happened during the examination of the proposals of the Progress Party in the autumn of 2012, the proposals of the Christian People's Party in the spring of 2013, and the public health report, also in the spring of 2013. Now we have a new opportunity. The size can now concentrate on a decision that can take the matter a step further. The time has come to go from word to action. I would therefore encourage all parties to take a new round with themselves and to contribute to ensuring the majority of one of the two proposals in the Committee's position. The relationship between physical activity and health is well documented. The Health Directorate has calculated that persons who are physically active gain on average eight quality-adjusted years of life in a life-cycle perspective compared to those who are inactive. With the exception of the youngest children, the level of physical activity in Norway is at present alarmingly low. In particular, daily routines are related to daily activities that have decreased. From the age of 6 to 9 years onwards, the level of activity is reduced. The activity sinks throughout growth, and only one in five adults meets the recommendations of physical activity, and then we talk about 30 minutes of physical activity with moderate intensity. The Christian People's Party has raised this matter several times in Stortinget in recent years. In Document 8:23 S for 2012–2013, we promoted ten concrete proposals for action to increase physical activity and improve public health. These included: proposals to introduce one hour of physical activity each day at school, to strengthen the teaching of swimming and to introduce an action plan for rehabilitation and new construction of swimming facilities. On 19 March 2013, the bulk of the population chose to attach all the proposals to the Protocol. Many of the same proposals were re-examined in the context of Stortingen’s treatment of public health in the spring of 2013. The outcome was that the government would ‘assess how the day of school can be organised to ensure that the students have at least one hour of physical activity each day’. It was still relatively non-binding, and little has happened to that case since then. I would therefore repeat my call to all parties in this Chamber to contribute to taking this matter the small step further from word to action. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party propose the following: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the introduction of a system to ensure the survival of the elephants from 1 to 10. steps at least one hour of physical activity each day, within the current hour.’;» SV proposes: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how to introduce one hour of daily physical activity for students from 1 to 10. Steps.’;» We in the Christian People's Party are voting primarily for our own proposal, and subsidiaryly for the Workers' Party and the SV's proposals. I hope the Storting will secure the majority for one of them. I am promoting with this the proposal made in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e804	The representative Anders Tyvand has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e807	It is an important matter that we are now dealing with. The red-green government introduced two weeks of physical activity between 5 and 7. stage in 2009 and from the autumn of 2012 physical activity and health were introduced as an electoral subject at the youth level. In order to continue the work started by the Stoltenberg Government, the Workers' Party has decided in its current programme to introduce daily physical activity. So for us, this is an important thing. As the rapporteur said, this is not the first time we have seen this proposal in this Chamber, and I have a great interest in this, and read previous issues, proposals, settings, comments and debates. The last time this was dealt with was in the context of the survey, which bore the name Straightway — quality and diversity in the common school. Let's take a little bit of a look back. In the setting for this big message, we can, among other things, read – and I remind you that this was written just a year ago: ‘new school interventions shall be anchored in research-based knowledge of what works and the introduction of more physical activity in school everyday life is just that.’ [[...]] It was also said that research and international findings show how learning and training are linked, and that increased physical activity among students promotes better learning. It was said that it is important to involve the problem of trouble and unrest in the classroom. International studies showed that Norway was very poor when it came to effective use of the time spent on teaching hours, and that students and teachers reported too much time spent trying to keep calm and order, and it was shown to experiments that showed with clarity that physical activity gave more peace and discipline every day during the hours. We can read in notes that the training law § 9a on the psychosocial environment of students is being broken too much today, and there were great concerns about the high levels of bullying in Norwegian school. Again, reference was made to both national and international research, which shows that physical activity and training in general provide a mastery feeling and lead to a strengthening of self-esteem, which in turn has proved positive in the prevention of bullying. The following proposals were made: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals from the autumn of 2014 to introduce one hour of physical activity each day for primary school students, with a corresponding increase in the frame-hour.’ Were these comments and suggestions from us in the Workers' Party? No, these are just some of the arguments – and I think they are good arguments – that were put into the pen by the Progress Party in order to justify the proposal I referred to. At that time, almost a year ago, the Progress Party said the following in the debate: Why does the government not vote for this proposal? Is it because the government doesn't want more physical activity? Is it because it is the Progress Party that is promoting the proposal? Furthermore, it was said that it is frightening that the government opposes the proposal, and: ‘It is frightening because it clearly shows that the government has no scruples in having beautiful promises to the voters, but does not implement it when it comes to the play. It's scary because you actively choose to put ideology ahead of practice, that they set ideological positions and ride the headlines rather than actually taking measures that are the best for the students. It is frightening because children’s learning and well-being in school are made less important than winning political favor for the voters.’ And finally, just to underline it all, it was said: ‘For us in the Progress Party, students are more important than political strategy and games. For us, learning is more important than ideology." This is just a small extract of the force ointments that came from the Progress Party in the previous period. That is why it must be allowed to ask the Progress Party today: why are they not voting in favour of the proposal of the Central Party? That is, of course, like the proposal they themselves promoted in the spring of 2013. According to the party's own rhetoric, I have to ask: Is it no longer learning that is the most important thing for them? And since it was so frightening the time when the red-green government did not support the proposal of the Progress Party, they should well be alarmed today. In the government declaration debate, Prime Minister Erna Solberg underlined the following: «We look forward to a period when the Stortinget is strengthened as a political workshop, and we look forward to the changes of words that follow. Then we expect you to do what you say: vote for what you're for and be careful to be in good dialogue that it's not just a political game." So it was on behalf of the Right Party government, and then I guess the Progress Party is no longer for what they were for at the time. It just doesn't stand for believers. Finally, I am promoting our proposal in this case on behalf of the Workers' Party and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e852	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e855	Public health is not a responsibility that lies in school alone. We have had technological advances over recent years, which have helped to change society quite significantly. They have certainly been good and have been involved in developing Norway and other Western countries quite as significant when it comes to medical progress, which has had a great impact on health, but they have also contributed to solving challenges and challenges in society today in completely different ways. Even I've been tempted to look at a robot lawn mower, because it's so fun – and there are other robots that solve housework for all of us. We take a bus when we're going to get in between, because the bus offer is getting better. Nor is it unusual that we drive the kids on training. There is no doubt that this welfare development that we have all seen as a good thing in society has also posed some challenges when we know at the same time that all research says that at least 60 minutes of physical activity is a good thing to ensure good public health. It can be challenging to be in good activity for 60 minutes, with a high heart rate fit, in today's societies because of all these tools. Now my point is not to say that we should not continue to promote technological development, because there is absolutely no doubt that we need to welcome if we are to contribute to the increased health and development of our society. But we also have to be careful to believe that school alone can be the arena that solves absolutely all the challenges that we feel need to find good progress in society. Therefore, it is more important that we have an overall perspective also on how physical activity can be ensured for our young, growing generations, so that we build a good foundation when they are to shape their lives and make their choices. We have to facilitate the good development of sports facilities, so that those who want to do so, and have a need for it, can choose to start sports activities without having long waiting lists to enter a gym. We need to facilitate the building of good attitudes as a society, and to do so requires knowledge. Therefore, there is no doubt that the government’s commitment to the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity helps to coordinate all public activities, but private organisations also contribute to this image in a positive, knowledgeable and good way. It is also important, when we have a public health perspective, that we see that health is not only physical health but also mental health. It is often linked, and it is often a complex issue. When we are discussing physical activity in school today, it is also worth noting that this government is taking mental health very seriously. For example, I want to praise you. the extra bet of 100 million. Dr, who is involved in strengthening psychological services in the Commune-Norway and is targeted at – above all, perhaps – children and young people, and the prevention taken for this age group. This is part of building whole people – who take wise, good choices, and who are involved in building their own health, both physically and mentally, in the future. Finally, let it just be said that the school's contribution is absolutely important for creating good attitudes. It provides an important basis. That is why it is of course important that we today point to the role of the school in this respect, and it is therefore very gratifying to see that the committee is behind a comprehensive perspective in this area – that the school has an important role in the work, but at the same time acknowledges that it is not just a state quick fix and a directive from here that is necessarily the phase. The country is far, the country has different assumptions. I would assume that in the winter season in Båtsfjord – if there are challenges with sports facilities and facilities – it is not as easy to have physical activity there as in other parts of the country. It is important to take account of further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e872	First, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting a very important case for Stortinget. Gymnastics and physical activity have always been an important part of school life here on land. Unfortunately, we see that the level of physical activity among today’s children and young people in leisure is still falling. In parallel with increasing inactivity, lifestyle diseases and obesity, we also see a decline in children’s cognitive capacity and academic performance. There is good evidence from various studies that physical activity plays a major role in health, regardless of age. The research results are also clear that physical activity in school provides students with better concentration and thus increased learning outcomes. In a study from Malmö University in Sweden, two classes were followed throughout basic education — one class had played every day, the other two hours a week. The group that had the most physical activity had a much better motor development and better school performance. Especially one saw that this had a beneficial effect on the learning for the boys. The progressing party will underline the positive yield of physical activity in both the short and long term. This was also the reason why the Progress Party had previously promoted its own proposal for physical activity at school, a proposal that meant extending the school day by one hour. But today we see that there are already many schools that actually manage to have an hour of physical activity daily, which I will come back to later in my post. Based on that and the fact that there is a huge cost of extending the school day by an extra hour, we are no longer to expand the school day by one hour in order to maintain physical activity. That being said, we think it's worth noting that all parties are concerned with ensuring physical activity, even if you go different ways to achieve the goal. We think it is very worrying that health problems related to inactivity and obesity are greatly increasing. Today’s 15-year-olds are more still than an average 70-year-old, and children and young people’s time spent on physical activity is drastically reduced. Test results in the physical exercise profession at school and in the defense show a decrease in physical performance, both for children and for young people. The relationship between inactivity and ill health is noticeable, and we actually have to take responsibility for doing something about this development. The government’s political platform considers physical activity to be so important that it is referred to on its own point. It is said that the government will ‘make it possible for schools to ensure daily physical activity for students’. Many schools are already doing well in their daily physical activity. A good example – again from Rogaland – is the Tastaveden School, which started a pilot project for all 8th-stage students in autumn 2013: physical activity every day and study time two days a week. To get this done, the step has reorganized the school day a little bit, so there's an increase in physical activity for everyone in 8:00. 1025 to 10:00 a.m. 1055 every day. It's just before eating, which means that the lust of lunch is stronger than it would otherwise be. According to Taspavis, January 28, this year, the experiment showed that the students are positive. One sees that students make new friends, that the class environment is strengthened, that learning outcomes are increased, and that health is getting better. There are several good examples that there are creative and competent teachers around School Norway who find good solutions for daily physical activity. The party of progress will highlight in particular the opportunity we have today in ordinary school hours. Flexibility and willingness to implement school management and teachers will be an important factor in increasing physical activity in school. We will also refer to the Ministry of Knowledge's cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare on how best to facilitate schools to ensure their daily physical activity. In the past, I pointed out that there was a large cost of extending the school day, and that is why we are voting against it. It's completely legal. Here, the Progress Party must be allowed to turn around, especially when we see that there are many schools that are already able to maintain physical activity by one hour, as the example from Rogaland just showed, and which started in the autumn of 2013, after the Progress Party had its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e898	The centre party is occupied by healthy diets and a physically active population. Basically, it is up to each one to take care of his own body and health and the body and health of his children. As we know, this is a challenge. An inactive population with an unhealthy diet is rapidly becoming precious to the big community. Therefore, it is important that we focus on prevention, therefore physical activity in school. Physical activity is important to prevent different diseases and disorders, but also important to create a more varied, active and exciting school day. Physical activity at school — or FYSAK, to which this proposal applies — is not new in Norwegian school. There are many people who have driven with FYSAK, long before they started with it in Rogaland in 2013. All political parties want the students to move more. Nevertheless, we are reluctant to oblige the schools to leave the students more in motion. It is understandable in the sense that practical-esthetic subjects are not considered as basic subjects, but it is sad that one does not see the possibility of using these subjects also in order to promote learning in other subjects. Many schools in many counties have been offering FYSAK for many years – Denmark has already introduced this – and we believe what we are doing is not good enough. We believe that this must happen to all schools in Norway. That's why the Center Party has proposed that we now have to put in place a system that allows students to have one hour of physical activity every day. We have also proposed that this be done within the framework of today's Ramti metal to stress that this should be a natural part of the already existing school day. As I said, many schools have been able to include this in school life already. That means it shouldn't be a hokuspocus to get it into other schools. It's about willingness and about the fact that the central authorities tell the schools that physical activity is so important that we want all students to have the opportunity to laugh during the day. Basically, the easiest way is for kids to get more activity to go to school. There is often more problematization than is necessary. If you live far away and need a bus, the bus doesn't have to drive the students all the way to the door. They can be set off at a certain distance from school and go one kilometer or two. Obviously, there are many routes that are dangerous to traffic, so it is important to take account of local conditions. So to the public health report. There we have all stated that the goal is that we should: be among the three countries in the world with the longest life expectancy experiencing more years of well-being and well-being and reducing health inequalities creating a society that promotes health throughout the population; ‘The whole population’ we meet during school hours. Our kids stay at school in the daytime. It's not like everything's going to happen in school, as the representative Gudmundsen said, but I'm taking the distance from the fact that the Right now seems to push physical activity out of the school's natural everyday life. Many of these kids want more practical and physical activity in everyday school life than they do today. Many want more gym, but not everyone wants it at all. Many people feel inadequate in high school, and this can cause the subject to become a little bit of accommodating. The right to one hour of physical activity during the school day can be provided through regular body training hours or elective courses at secondary school, but it can also be provided through activities integrated into other subjects and organised arrangements during the free minutes. It can be achieved through dance, play, out-school and other different outdoor activities, and it can prevent mental health disorders. I can't believe it's not possible at a school in Båtsfjord. I have received feedback that the practice of outpatient school has gone back after the introduction of the Knowledge promise in 2006, and that is a pity and a shame. In the evening post on 23 April we can read that ‘Norwegian children’s contact with nature is fading’. A study conducted by NINA says that activity produces activity, and that the role and effort of adults means much to the extent of children’s natural contact. It is natural to assume that the role and efforts of adults also affect physical activity in school. It is serious when we hear that only 53 pst. by Norwegian teenagers can swim and that Norwegian children's swimming skills are at the bottom of the Nordic region. There is a serious breach of the fourth stage aim of competence, which says that the students should be able to swim. It is a vital goal that school owners and parents must now take seriously. And there are municipalities that get it done. I want to send a call to all the parents: let the kids go to school, give them time on vacation without a mobile phone, take them on the beach, and teach them how to swim. All measures are low-cost, but vital.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e932	Let me first thank the proposers for raising a very important topic. Physical activity is important to all of us, not least to those who go to school. When we know that we live in a society where the differences are increasing, when the health of those with high education is better than the health of those with low education, when the difference in life is great between those who live on the east and those who live on the west, it's important that this topic be debated. Not least, it's the way that more people have been about, that we live in a society where we're very quiet. We stay a lot inside, and the activity we had before is falling. Physical activity entering the school does not necessarily mean more gym; one might as well, as the previous representative mentioned, have physical activity during the spare minutes. Not least, learning both math and natural science – and certainly Norwegian and history and many other subjects as well – can be seen in nature as one engages in physical activity. Here it's really just the imagination that sets limits. In the left we share the intention of the proposers, but we note that the Ministry of Knowledge has started working with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and we want to wait and see what they come with. But, as I said, it is a very important topic, and we are very pleased that the proposers are bringing it up for debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e941	Researchers at Vrije University in Amsterdam have gone through 14 studies with more than 12,000 children in the United States, Canada and South Africa. They think there are strong indications that there is a connection between training and school performance. They also think that the stress-reducing effect of physical activity seems to be positive about how children and young people are doing in school. A more recent study shows that physical activity in the school gives better grades. Students were divided into two equal groups. One group had a daily schedule of sports activity at school, while the other group had two hours of sports and health per week. The result showed that the group that had daily physical activity achieved higher grades than those that had two hours of exercise in the week. We can ask ourselves, what time do we work best? Is it when we practice regularly, or is it when we sit still? What is needed to make our own children more concentrated? For SV the goal is a more holistic school day. It's the whole human being that rushes into the school gate in the morning, and it's the whole human being that's going to go out into society and work after another schooling. Then you can't just view learning as something that's about something from a book, or something that goes from the pedagogy's side. SV’s learning vision is therefore broad. We see the relationship between body and mind. I've told you before from this talking chair that we have a theory in SV that the brain is not alone. That's why we're also for physical activity in the school, for fruit and green and in the long term also an entire meal in the school. It is they who think this is not the way to go, that one should not prioritize it. The goal is for students to be concentrated and present when teaching. It is therefore also the teachers in the Sports Association’s 2012 teacher survey are so positive to physical activity in the school. Nine out of ten basic students think that daily physical activity is important in a learning environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. 84 pst. think that daily physical activity in the school helps students generally get better school performance. 85 pst. believes that physical activity promotes well-being and performance and reduces the level of conflict. Seven out of ten students in the elementary school think that the students in the elementary school should have at least one hour of compulsory physical activity every school day. Fortunately, there is much agreement in the committee that physical activity is good. Unlike the discussion we had about nutrition, the Committee gathers here and thinks that physical activity is good and something that should be given priority. The inconsistency consists of whether or not this should happen through an extended school day. For the SV part, this is also a matter of priorities. There is no need to take anything out to get to this bet. In SV's school, there is actually a focus on both nutrition and physical activity. There are several teachers and there are several professional groups that surround the school, there is a focus on continuing education, and there is a longer teacher training. It's simply because we want to bet heavier on the youngest and heavy on education. We think it's very good for society and very good for the individual. For comparison — and this is well documented — if we look at the reduction of property taxes and inheritance taxes, it is very difficult for economists to point out that it has a beneficial effect on society. Very few have been able to say from this speaker that reducing property taxes has a positive effect. Therefore, SV is more concerned about investing the money where it really matters, and focusing on both thought, body and nutrition.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e957	The government is committed to caring for the physical as well as mental health of children and young people. There's no distinction, and we can't have any distinction, as long as you want to lay the foundation for lasting positive changes. Psychiatric disorders are and may be a trigger for the development of physical health disorders, and vice versa. Research shows that there is a clear link between the lack of secondary education and health problems, drug problems and poorer living conditions later in life. Young people without secondary education have worse health, use more drugs and have more mental health problems than those who complete 12 years of schooling. Making more people to complete secondary education can therefore also be an important public health measure, but good health is also important in order to complete it. The government is busy building a bridge between school and health. In 2014, the government has set aside 100 million. that municipalities can use to employ several psychologists to work with youth prevention, as well as to strengthen health and school health services. If we succeed in our ambitions, we will be able to create an even better learning environment around children and young people. There is good evidence that physical activity is important for learning and important for the health of the paediatric population. Good organisation for physical activity can have a positive impact on the learning environment, learning and school performance. The level of activity among children and young people is also alarming. It's a significant decrease from 9 to 15 years old. Only half of the 15-year-olds are physically active. Too little physical activity also gives rise to increased disease risk both in growth and later in life. Norway has joined the WHO target of 25 pst. reduction in early death by 2025. Increased physical activity is an important tool to achieve it. On the health side, it is recommended that all children and young people have a minimum of 60 minutes of physical activity per day. Research shows that underlying young people have problems with overweight and lifestyle diseases. There is an increasing problem among children and young people. In the autumn of 2009, two hours of physical activity were introduced between 5 and 7. steps. However, there is still a need for more physical activity in school than today. The school reaches all children and young people and can therefore provide all students with the possibility of physical activity and thus the basis for health and learning. It is important to start the process of a longer-term course, aimed at improving the framework conditions and predictability of schools. It's a good investment. So there's different ways to do it, and the different ways to do it also have different cost pages. If you, for example, Should do that by increasing the number of gym lessons, it would of course cost the most, probably about 4 billion. kr. If you were to increase by an extra week of physical activity – i.e. assume that the teacher should do so, but without compensating for pre- and post-work – it would probably cost about 2 billion. kr. Of course, if you choose to do it within today's hours, the dilemma is that you have to either take time from other teaching or do what I think is crucial, namely to have more physical activity in the education that is already there. There are good examples of local schools and municipalities that have done just that, combining physical activity with education and thus getting to an hour of physical activity per day at school. A commitment to which both the Ministry of Knowledge and the Ministry of Health and Welfare have high expectations is the establishment of the National Centre for Food, Health and Physical Activity. The Centre shall contribute to strengthening the role of kindergartens and schools as health promotion and prevention arenas for children and young people and have been added to the Bergen High School. The role of the Centre is intended to be a national resource centre for health promotion, food and mobility in kindergartens and schools, and for kindergarten and teacher training and other relevant education. In order to create lasting and positive changes, it is necessary to bring down the barriers between kindergarten, school and health care. The Centre should therefore contribute, through its activities, to the local priority of work in order to promote professional, personal, social and health development for children and young people. The centre is this year in an establishment phase and will have official opening in October. All changes must be knowledge-based. The national centre should therefore contribute to a closer look at the experience gained, disseminate research-based knowledge and, of course, be a driver and supporter of kindergartens and school activities. The Centre shall take over, inter alia: the kindergarten and school building advisory service in January 2015, which could further strengthen the Centre’s role.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e980	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e983	I'm glad the Council of State drew out the last way to do Funsak, that one can view it as part of the ordinary teaching. I actually think we have a lot to go on there. As I also mentioned in my article, has, among other things, use of out-of-school facilities has fallen since the introduction of the promise of knowledge. There's also something we're going to take seriously. Then I want to challenge the Council of State, because I perceived the contribution of the Council of State party colleague almost as a warning that the school should not take on everything – now it becomes a little too much of the good, we have to slow the pace a little bit here. I also realized that it could be difficult to implement Funsak if you did not have access to sports halls, or if you live in municipalities with a little cold and domestic weather. I wonder if the Council of State shares the opinion of its party colleague, or whether he shares that view, for example. dance may be part of the ordinary day-to-day school and may be conducted indoors in a normal classroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e990	Dance is mostly physical activity, and I'm absolutely sure that schools and school owners find many local solutions that don't necessarily require that you have access to a gym right there and then all the time. The reason for this is simply that the proposal is not that you should necessarily increase the number of body-sleeping hours – where we are already quite high – but that is physical activity in a different way. There are also some questions about the type of pedagogical competence to have, whether to have learning objectives, etc. That's why I think the representative Gudmundsen has a very important point when he says that there are differences here, not necessarily just because of the temperature and the weather and the type of things – it's probably possible to be physically active also in Båtsfjord in winter – but there are simply differences in how the schools can choose to solve this. So what we have to do is both make sure that it's clear what's possible, and encourage more physical activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e995	The council held, I'll almost say as usual, a wise piece. The Council of State also pointed out that the differences among people in Norway are increasing, which I fully agree with. However, your representatives here refer to the letter from the Council of State, which is also good. But then the question comes: why hasn't the Council of State given advice to be on the proposals, either from the Workers' Party and SV or from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party? For the entire boom from the Council of State, this is what is needed, and the Council of State said it can be done within the hour if you do it like that. So where does the matter stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1000	There are two different proposals for the Storting that lie here. One proposal is to have an extra week. First of all, there's some question about who's going to have these hours. If you assume that you're going to have teachers there, and you're not going to compensate teachers for pre- and post-work – now I'm not saying that it's right to do it, but if you're thinking about it, it probably means a cost in the order of 2 billion. kr. Then it is possible for the schools to make local arrangements and use the hours of physical activity, just as by billing as basic skill. Today, several schools are integrating it into physical training. Similarly, it's natural to, for example, In some natural subjects, you may also be able to add physical activity to that subject if you transport the students to or from a place in Norway. What I think we need to think a little bit more about is how much we're going to have a central control and an A4 solution for everyone, or whether we're going to be able to build it from below, starting from the local examples that are.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1005	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has asked for a reply. The President will ask the representative to wait from who will report. In general, the President will note that it pays to draw a line early in a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1008	I think I'll give tribute to the government of the Department of Knowledge for having written a very good speech to the Council of State with a good discussion of the Centre for Health and Food and the connection between physical and mental birth and the importance of physical activity. Diet team, even, the Council of State talked about it. He could have kept this post in a case earlier here, but it might not have been so good with the conclusion. The thing is, this is, in the same way as fruit and green, which costs money. There is no doubt that continuing training for teachers is likely, even more important than physical activity every day. So anyway, it's going to be a larger bet than just one thing. My question is, when the Council of State has now heard the good arguments of the government: what does he do politically? Will he make sure that there is a possibility of physical activity every day? It costs money, and that is why central action is also needed. It's not just to let it grow from below, as the council says so nicely.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1017	On the question of whether he will make sure that an hour of physical activity is possible each day, the answer is yes. I mean there are a lot of good examples of schools that get it done and do it. The discussion we have today is to what extent you need a national A4 solution for everyone, and to what extent you have to do such things. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party think, have it within today's hours as a burden? Or should you have an extra hour on top? The extra hour is what costs billions. Then I'll take the honor of the post. It is certainly nice also for the government to boast, even though it is of course such that the representative Gieske only knows the Council of State, as we know – so I take it. But I promise I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1026	The council said that completing the school can provide better health, and that physical activity can be important to get more people to complete the school. So here we're talking about a positive spiral with a clear relationship between physical activity and results in school. But when we see that the physical activity is constantly decreasing, there's a danger signal that the positive spiral is turning to an evil spiral, and we have to be very aware of that. That is why I had hoped that the government parties would support one of the two proposals that are being promoted today. So I haven't heard anyone but the Council of State talk about A4 solutions. That's not what we want. It is clear that there are local differences. Boat fjord has been pulled out, and that it might be hard to get it there. But my question is, does the Council of State think that because it can be challenging in some municipalities to facilitate physical activity, we should stretch our arms to the weather and say that then there's nothing to do with it? Or, because it's challenging in some municipalities, should we just be careful to take responsibility nationally and say that this should be put on there as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1033	After all, in the midwinter of Boat fjord with snowstorms and flakes and strong winds, it's just moving from a classroom to a gym, for example, physical activity itself. I think there's a connection between the different things, a little bit the same as the lesson aid scheme didn't work well enough, because you earmarked it and put it on 1-4. steps. So there's a bunch of questions that I think we have to think a little bit carefully about, and that's: if you're going to put schools one hour into physical activity within today's framework metal, as the Christian People's Party believes, that means taking time out of the subjects to spend on physical activity, that is, taking time out of the math class, the Norwegian hour, the social class, or maybe the pupils' class, which is used for the pupil board, and using it for physical activity? Or does that mean that the schools have to spend more time integrating physical activity into the subjects that are already there? I think that's the way to go. Both through this national centre and the cooperation we now have with the Minister of Health, we are going to discuss and present policies in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1041	I think the intention of the proposal was more than that we should only give good advice to the municipalities and to the schools about how they can achieve a little more physical activity within today's framework. Even if one wants to do this within today's frame hours or extend the frame hours, the idea, as I understand it, was from the majority in the committee that we now want to get a larger national stake in this field. It's kind of funny to call ‘national bet’ A4 automatically. We are all a few people on the subject of continuing training. It's not just A4 because it's nationally initiated. My question is, besides that I understand this with the center, and that one has to sit down and get it within hours, etc.: Does the Minister take the committee seriously and really want to launch some major actions related to physical activity from his office? Or is there less adjustments and exchange of experience he wants to add up to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1048	I don't mean to say that every bet is necessarily an A4 solution. What I mean to say, as I have also said before, is that there are some questions that relate to taking it either outside of the hour – then there are questions about both teaching skills, possibly professional goals, and costs, about. 2 billion. kr, likely – or within the hour, and how to organise it. I think we should think quite carefully before imposing such a system. But a national initiative can also be to make good examples visible, to have a driving centre, to make it clear to the municipalities that it is a political wish – which is broad – to facilitate physical activity one hour a day, to help involve voluntary organisations, to think about how schools can use creatively, for example. the free minutes and see if they can be concentrated a little more so that they can contribute to physical activity. All of this we are discussing with the Ministry of Health now, and I am prepared to do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1055	The President has to draw attention to, because we got a note in the President's office that there should be six lines in this case, that in the debate that has been adopted, there are five lines. That is what has been adopted. Letters from the Committee Secretary state that in this case there should be five lines on the Council of State. In another e-mail that has arrived, which deals with all the matters, there are six lines. The President just wants to draw attention to this, and that we have adopted five lines. – And this ends the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1062	Thank you to the proposers, who are raising an incredibly important issue. Now it's really time for something to happen in this case. The left has excused me, but it is difficult to understand how it is possible to end up with such a tame attitude in a case where the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left say they really agree. In the Storting we have a fixed expression called "to greet home". In this case, I feel the need to turn the tile around and say hello from home. Buskerud Sports circuit has a project, Active 365 – number of days a year – that has been in progress since 2001, and where the aim is physical activity in school by training young people as activity managers. Among other things, students from St. Hallvard secondary school have contributed to the well-known project ‘Sunne and Active Lions’ at Sylling School in Lier, where all students from first to tenth grade have at least one hour of physical activity each day. It's probably not random that the principal at the school is also head of the Buskerud Sports Circle. What he needed was a decision in the municipality of Lier that physical activity should be a field of activity – nothing more than that. Then he was on the move, together with the municipal supervisor, the public health coordinator, the parents and the staff at the school. The school has been cutting for free minutes and took time from other subjects. In return, physical activity is used for social, math and English tasks. Among other things, teachers contribute questions from the weekly syllabus to activities in the community. A nice side effect is that even the community's pensioners have started going into the activity loops and breaking down on the questions. The goal is to increase school performance, because active children perform better, and diets are also included. The students are satisfied. They say themselves that they can do more and are in a better mood. Sylling school had no fix plan, but develops the project as they go. As the principal himself says, a kind of inverse Peer Gynt: «Yes, think it; wish it; would it with, – but do it! No, I don't appreciate it." In this case, biging and government have for too long looked more like Peer Gynt than good for Norwegian school students. The time has come to do that. We don't need long investigations where schemes are going to snow in detail. Investigations have been carried out. Documentation and practice are available. What is needed is a short and well-established provision that Norwegian children, from kindergarten to high school, must have at least one hour of physical activity per day. And then we have to have a little more confidence that this can be organized locally. It'll hold, and we'll be on it. Actually, we could only adopt such a bill here today, but at least the government does not need to use winter and spring to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for law change. Time is overdue. Several schools are already in progress. Now the rest has to come after. And I think the Council of State is a little too bureaucratic in its approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1075	One hour of physical activity every day at 1st to 10th grade will enhance the ability to learn in all subjects because the students become more motivated and in better form. So we're talking about a reform where the point is physically active learning. Better pedagogy and learning are primary benefits; better health is secondary benefits. If we are to succeed in more physical activity in Norwegian school, we must use the teachers as educators, not health workers. Teachers want to contribute to the growth and development of children and young people. At the same time, the teachers are in a difficult cross-press to train all our young people at once. The point is that physical activity is a educational tool, a good learning promoter. In the Danish reform of similar physical activity in school every day, the term ‘supporting learning’ is used for what I call ‘physically active learning’. Resourceful families move more, eat healthier and live longer. Students who come from such relationships have a great advantage of learning well at school, and this is something most trainees have experienced. For the Centre Party, it is important to organise schoolwork so that those students who have poorer assumptions from home for good learning at school get a boost. Here, free food and more movement during school days are important priorities. The main benefit of these two measures is for young people who are at least physically active. All parties speak for this, but there is something unexplained in the case and in the setting from the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. These student groups don't seem to be the people of these three parties; I choose to say it so strongly. I want to say it so strongly that what's really under it, and it's a little strange that as a center party I'm going to say it, is that this is about a class question, where the classes that don't have the same opportunities as the others, aren't people one in practice. And I'll ask the Council of State to listen to this, because after the post that the Council of State had, he pointed out that there were just measures to counteract such a difference Norway that was the primary. What for the Center Party is the central one is a jealous relationship between people. And when we know what evolution is, one has to put the measures where they have the greatest effect. And there's no doubt that it works. Such developments as are currently outlined in the proposals should be introduced in stages: first, 1 to 4. class, then 5–7. class, and then the next step, and it has to be combined with the teachers getting an education so that you can do a good job, and so that it becomes interesting for the students to join. Start with the small ones, follow the steps up – then we can do a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1088	This is the second thing we are debating today, for which the government party is in favour, but which they will not give priority anyway. One hour of physical activity in school is what we call a vital proposal, not primarily because it stimulates active learning and prevents non-response, but because of the knowledge we have today about the health consequences of a stationary population, and in order to achieve the political objective of the public health message of creating a society that promotes health in the whole population, in order to experience several years of good health and well-being and reduced social health differences. Physical activity in Norway is a class question today. Many organizations have understood that. The National Association of Public Health, the Cancer Association, the Norwegian Physiotherapist Association, the Medical Association and the Norwegian Sports Association have agreed on the requirement to clarify their public health responsibilities through a mandatory one-hour daily physical activity for all school pupils. The representative, Kent Gudmundsen, said in his speech that public health is not a responsibility for the school alone, and that welfare development has given us health challenges by reducing everyday activity. That's absolutely right. But the Right is wrong when they don't want the school to take public health responsibility at all. The ball is a big prevention arena, where one meets all the elephants, no matter what the background. Then I have to say that I am a little tired of being met in the debate with this National Center for Physical Activity and Nutrition in the School as an argument to get away from the actual concrete actions that are being offered to the students in the School. In the public health report, the majority said that one should consider how the school could be organized so that the students were assured of at least one hour of physical activity every day. Now, the goal of the government platform has been reduced to 'adjusting'. I think that's a regrettable decline, that we're getting a less active goal for this, especially when we have a goal of reducing the major public diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. The proposal can be submitted within today's hour(s). State councils can be sure that we don't want to have a concrete answer on how to do this right now, but the goal must be to be able to say something about it. So finally to the left, where the representative said she was very concerned about debating social health differences. But we don't just have to debate, we have to do something about it. The left is at the tip of this case and can support the proposal from us and the goal of introducing one hour of physical activity to reduce social health inequalities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1105	I don't quite know if I understood the post of the representative Thorsen. The party now talks, as in the past, about the importance of physical activity in school, and they continue to justify it with research and research. They talk well about how important it is for learning, and I agree. But at the same time they run from previous proposals and what they promised the voters. They cannot even support the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV where we ask the government to come back to the Stortinget with a matter of how one hour of physical activity can be introduced on a daily basis from 1st to 10th steps. Of course, it is permissible to change your mind when you realize that the professional arguments are no longer valid and the basis for a whole case falls away, but that is not the case here. The argument is that it's too expensive. They now justify the fact that it is becoming too expensive, and I stress that it is the Progress Party that says it – in a matter that has been so important to the Progress Party, last June 14, 2013 in this Chamber. The party can afford tax relief, they can afford cheaper boat engines, but not more physical activity in school. And as I said, they will not even support the proposal of the Workers' Party and SV in this matter. I repeat what I said in my previous post, and which I concluded with, "It just doesn't stand for believers."
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1112	This is an important matter. That is why it is also important that all representatives understand what is being said from this pulpit, so that no one perceives things differently from what is meant. As several representatives have been involved in the debate, many schools have already introduced daily physical activity within the time frame available. So it's that the Progress Party hasn't turned around because of the cost. The Labour Party and the Stoltenberg Government voted in favour of extending the school day, precisely because it was too expensive – it was too expensive, it was said, over and over again. So then I hope that's perceived. But the argument that the Progress Party is now using to turn around is that in retrospect, there are amazingly many good examples around School-Norway that it has just introduced one hour of daily activity. One of the representatives who measured it in a very good way was the representative Christoffersen, who showed good results at Sylling School in Lier. It was without extending the school day; it was within the framework of today. So I think that's absolutely what we're going to notice. I also expect the Council of State to have listened and listened well to all the good recordings, and to assess it in the further work on this matter. This is something that we all agree with. Then it's all the good recordings that's come to you now. Perhaps there will also be a few more that we have not heard about, when this debate on the important topic becomes known. I would once again like to thank the representatives for bringing this debate to the Chamber, and then I expect that we will get a good solution to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1123	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1137	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, 5 minutes of speaking time is given to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be given with up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President assumes that this is correct, since the signals from the Committee are very ambiguous in writing. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1148	This case concerns whether the ministry should be granted a temporary derogation to approve, in exceptional cases, private schools which do not meet the so-called purpose criteria in the second paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Private School Act. As the rapporteur, I would like to thank the Committee for good cooperation and for a good process, even though the committee is not behind the vote. It is a committee majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party that supports the view that the proposed amendments to the Private School Act are not adopted, but it is therefore assumed that the proposal will have a majority in the Stortinget. The starting point for this case is that the government wants to liberalize the private school law. The Right Party and the Advance Party wish to grant to all those who meet content and quality requirements a statutory right to start private schools with State aid. The government has signalled that the Ministry aims to send a proposal for complete changes to the Private School Act at the hearing in autumn 2014 and present them to the Stortinget in spring 2015. But even now, before the Stortinget sees the amendments, the Council of State is asking for a derogation to approve schools that do not meet the requirements of the applicable legislation. For the Christian People's Party, the starting point of private school policy is clear. We believe that all parents have a right to choose a school type for their children who are in line with their own religious, moral, and philosophical beliefs. This is a human right enshrined in international conventions, to which Norway has committed itself. Therefore, Norway needs health schools that provide an alternative to public schools in these areas, which are well-managed in today’s legislation. Therefore, such schools need to have a good financial environment, so that parental payments can be kept as low as possible, and so that parental rights and the option of choosing a free school become real for all, not just for those with large wallets. This is an important matter for the Christian People's Party. But the Christian People's Party does not want a massive privatisation of Norwegian school. We do not want substantial liberalisation of the private school law, and we do not want to give everyone who meets certain quality requirements a statutory right to start school with state aid. We do not want the changes made by the government in the Private School Act, and therefore we do not want to grant the Council of State an exemption to accept schools that do not meet the requirements of today's legislation. I also believe that it would be unnatural to give the council the opportunity to approve new private schools before the Stortinget treats the notified changes to the law. It may be in the utmost consequence that the Minister of Knowledge gives green light to schools starting in the autumn of 2015, which Stortinget agrees with us that we do not want to have in Norway. It will be an unfortunate result of an unbridled political process. I want to go back to my parents' right a little bit. For the Christian People's Party, as I said, it is important that the parental right applies to everyone. It must apply regardless of religion or view of life, and it must apply no matter where you live — whether you live in a large city or in a small village. Therefore it is important for the Christian People's Party that a municipality should not be able to say no and have veto rights when a new private school is approved. But if the Storting decides today that the Minister of Knowledge will be able to approve schools which do not comply with the private school law and which do not necessarily contribute to complying with the parental right as established in international conventions, I think it is reasonable to demand that he have at least the municipality or county council involved. I am therefore pleased that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left agree on a note that approval under any derogation provision ‘will not be granted if the host municipality or the host State opposes such approval’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1167	The Workers' Party will ring the bell on the public common school. Nevertheless, I can understand many of the arguments put forward by the Right and the Progressive Party in the debate on private schools. However, in this case it is difficult to understand the reason why the Minister of Knowledge will have a right to approve the private schools he himself wants. Is it because a race of ideal actors who will create innovative schools must definitely start before a new private school law comes into place? No, it's not. Is it because the country's local politicians are now screaming for sorely wanted private schools as quickly as possible in their municipality? No, it's not. Is it because the Council of State doesn't have enough to do? It might be, but that's not the answer either. According to the Department, the purpose is to gain experience with innovative schools. This rationale makes little sense. The deadline for applying for these new schools is August 2014. They can obtain approval and start in the autumn of 2015. In the meantime, according to the government, a new private school law has been both consulted and adopted. So when the Right Party and the Advance Party are going to make a new private school law, they will draw on experiences from schools that have not yet started. It's like reporting a play half a year before the premiere. If the aim is to gain experience from applications, it is not necessary to start more private schools on an unclear basis, without clear objectives, in order to gain experience from new applications. Either you could ask at school, how would you have applied, and what would you have written in the application if you had a free search without clear criteria for purpose? Or you could read some of the applications that were filed when the Bondevik II government went off — the applications for 22,000 new private student seats in Norway. If none of them were innovative, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have a problem in this debate. If the objective was really to gain experience, then – as the Christian People's Party was also involved – one would first see how these schools actually worked in practice before creating a law based on these experiences. When the Right Party and the Advance Party want the Minister of Knowledge to approve schools at their discretion, the reason is probably quite different. There is no popular requirement to open up more private schools. On the contrary, joint schooling is widespread in Norway. It is a heavy job to change today's private school law in such a fundamental direction as the Right and the Advance Party want. Then they also have to get better arguments. Those who are ready on the border and eager to start new private schools in Norway are not primarily ideal actors, but large commercial private school chains. The experience from other countries is that they can quickly become dominant. In Sweden, almost half of the secondary schools are run by these commercial chains. The ideal actors are pushed beyond the sidebar. A dispensation option such as this will, of course, allow the Council of State to approve ‘small non-profit private schools’ — a few of them — which can be used as examples in the public debate before a new private school law is to be sent to the hearing. But when the stage carpet goes up, after the government possibly adopts its new private school law next year, it's not the ideal schools that are going to come first in the floodlights. These are the big commercial chains. The ideals are going to be referred to a place in the shadow. This little change in law is helping to prepare the basis for the big change that is coming next year. There is no need for Skole-Norway to force this exemption. The working party is critical of it and will vote against it. This is primarily marketing. The changes in the law we are dealing with today, in principle, make today's private school law superfluous if you're going to take it completely out. Instead of a private school law with clear criteria for starting private schools, we could settle for one paragraph, which could be called the ‘Council decides’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1184	In a situation where the red-green opposition has tended to follow the Right-wing Party government in virtually everything it has proposed in the field of education policy, it may seem that the need to inflate a case such as this is at the top level. Sometimes it may sound like this is a debate on whether to allow private schools and fresh schools. So let me start by reminding you that all the parties at Stortinget are for alternatives to the public school – both the purely commercial private schools, which are not granted State aid, and which cost NOK 40 000 – 50 000 to go to, and the state-aided boarding schools. All of these are going to be driven, it's unanimous in the Stortinget. We have also seen this in practical policy in the last eight years. The Stoltenberg II Government approved more than 10000 post-secondary places during its reign. So the disagreement is not about this, but about which schools are going to be allowed to start, and what alternatives are we going to want to label the post-secondary sector? Today, this is determined by narrow and absolute criteria: religious schools, those with a pre-approved alternative education, sports schools and international schools have started under the law we have today. As a small discretion, I must point out that the Workers' Party has argued in several channels that they, together with the Christian People's Party, stand for the broad compromise in private school policy, and that this dispensation is in danger of such a compromise. Let me then remind you of the Workers' Party's reaction, both in the media and in this room, to the application for one Muslim school. I allow myself to give advice to good friends in the Christian People's Party: if there's anything that threatens the Christian People's Party's involvement, it's not this system of dispensation, but the Labour Party's taboo flight away from the compromise they claim to represent – as soon as the application from a non-Christian religious community came to the table. I hope the Christian People's Party followed closely that debate. But let me go back to the matter we are now discussing, namely the exemption system that the Storting will adopt today. Today’s law, which sets these absolute requirements for criteria to be approved, quickly leads to a lack of good alternatives. To ask a rhetorical question, but just as fully a question it is necessary to ask the opponents of a new law: might there be other offers that would be good alternatives but do not meet these absolute criteria? If you think that might happen, wouldn't it be interesting to figure out what kind of alternatives this is? The government has announced that there will be a proposal for a new school law, but at the same time it has said that this is a work that you will take good time with. It is wise not to rush into this matter, and therefore such a derogation is a very good approach to the work on a new law. By creating this narrow access for single schools, which today represent a real alternative to both public and already approved health schools, we also provide the opportunity for enthusiasts out there to show what ideas they have for a good offer to students. It serves the students, and it makes the Norwegian education sector better and richer, because more ideas are not available. Let me end by referring to what this derogation actually involves. It means that a training office that works closely with the industry can have the opportunity not only to follow the apprentices but to teach them before they learn. One such example – which the media has brought forward – is the Apprenticeship Company in Oslo. They work with 80 restaurants in the city to follow up apprentices in the waitress and catering industry. They know a lot about what the industry is looking for, and they have new ways of learning away to their apprentices. With today's law, an application from them to start up a small waitress line, as well as follow-up apprentices, will get rejected automatically. But if the Apprenticeship put in a morning night and called themselves a Christian waitress school, it would be very much to refuse them to start up with today's law. This, I think, is the least common sense. Therefore, it is also good that the law should be reviewed and adapted to today's needs. The dispensation scheme is a good start to bring out the enthusiasts who need to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1210	Then the representative of Asheim will make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1213	I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1218	The representative of Henrik Asheim has taken up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1221	The Progress Party supports the Government's proposal. We believe that the proposal is a step in the right direction and refers to the Sundvolden declaration, where it is among other things. Tightens: «The government will allow more than one person to operate publicly funded fresh schools and will reintroduce a law on independent schools replacing the requirement for purposes with content and quality requirements.» The narrow exemption proposed by the government in this case will provide useful information and a better overview of possible alternative schools before the government submits a final proposal for a new private school law in 2015. During this trial period, we don't expect to see results from the contents of the different schools, but it's about the type of schools, and it might be interesting to see what's going on on the track. The Progress Party welcomes the amendment of the Private School Act in order to ensure parents’ right to choose schools in line with the provisions on education, which are enshrined in the Conventions on Human Rights of which Norway is obliged. We assume that a new private school law will contribute to increased diversity, stimulate school development and ensure high quality school provision in the country. We also want to underline the point that schools are going to be innovative. They must contribute to increased diversity, i.e. represent something that is significantly different from what is normal practice in public schools and approved private schools. Furthermore, the current educational offer or the organisation of teaching must be suitable for developing experiences that may be useful beyond the school itself. In our opinion, it is little voice to restrict the parental right to only parents who want a religious or pedagogical alternative for their children. Our country needs more fresh schools that are different from public schools in both organization, pedagogics, ideal foundations and ownership. Our society and democracy need a diversity of offers in the school sector. Here I would like to quote the Abelias Forum for Free Schools, which supports the proposal and states that it is positive with openings that allow alternative schools to be approved as ‘can make a difference and help solve societal challenges. In the hearing, the Ministry specifically referred to the real-time and vocational schools. Language upper secondary education can also be an example of an alternative that can meet the skills needs of the workplace and industry. Competences are needed in e.g.: Chinese, Korean, Japanese and Russian, but also within German, too few to choose given that Germany is one of Norway’s largest trading partners’. Reconciliation, improvement, development and quality. Free schools are an important complement to public schools and can contribute to innovation and provide new experiences on pedagogics and organisational forms. As a politician, I believe that we must be humble and actually realize that much security can be better, and that it is not that School-Norway in 2014 is the highest one that can be produced. The community is not static, but dynamic, which is not least what I would call the educational society. Just because we believe in progress and development rather than narrow frameworks and political governance, we will facilitate diversity, dynamism and school improvement. The role of politicians in this is to facilitate real diversity, to which the government's proposal is a contribution. The Progress Party believes that we must be open and facilitate efforts and innovation in a number of areas and not construct pointless ideological barriers. We consider it a problem that it is not possible to start fresh oils that offer immersion in technology or real science, or that are based on alternative pedagogical principles of recent dates. The Progress Party also sees it as both pointless and illogical that it is not allowed to start an ordinary high school that simply aims to be better than other schools. We see no reason for this to be so, and we therefore believe that the government's proposal is an important step on the way. The debate on fresh oils often reminds me a little of the debate in Stortinget on colour television in the early 1970s. As Einar Förde said in that debate: «The resistance also has strong elements of puritanism: we are told that sin has come to the earth, but we do not want it in colors.» In a similar way, there will be resistance to greater diversity in school provision. The people can be most graciously allowed to choose between ‘alternative education’ and religious schools, but nothing else. The party of progress and the government, on the other hand, will have a colorful and diverse range of schools. Creative, knowledge-rich and value-creating people contribute to bringing the world forward. We think there are many of these people in Education Norway, and so we want to make sure that they have the opportunity to expand and create good schools. There might also be reason to remember what actually happened under the red-green government. Every eight days in Stoltenberg’s reign, one school was closed — a total of 355 schools. At the same time, there have never been as many private schools as during the eight-year reign of Stoltenberg. I can otherwise reassure the opposition that what is coming now is not a complete release of private schools, but it is simply a small decoration that will allow for real freedom of choice and real alternatives. Our starting point is that it is the parents who are responsible for their children and that most parents actually want the best for their children. They should therefore have real choices about something as important as the education of their children. There is quality in school, the desire of students to learn and the freedom of parents to choose which should be the basis of school policy, not the desire for governance and uniformity. Swedish school has been dragged into this debate. From the experience of Sweden in the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Assessment, it is clear that poorer results on national tests cannot explain Sweden's decline in the PISA tests – that private schools cannot be loaded for it. In addition, the school in Sweden has been exposed to a municipalisation reform introduced by the left-hand side in 1991 and continued by later governments. This reform did so, among other things. facilitate the recruitment of unskilled teachers and the loss of the character requirements of teacher training. As you know, it is not a policy of today’s government that adds up – on the contrary. Another factor that also means that comparisons with Sweden are limping is that Sweden has opened up dividends, something that is not known to be open to in the government’s proposal. So this is not a current policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1264	The centre party has a long tradition of defending parental rights, i.e.: parents’ right to choose a different, alternative, education offer than public school, in line with international conventions. The essence of the parental right is to be able to choose a substantive alternative to the public offer and not an offer made in direct competition with the public. That is why our party programme also says: ‘The private school law of the day covers an offer with long traditions as a supplement to the common school.’ For the Central Party, it is important that the Private School Act balances the consideration of parents’ right to choose alternative training for their children and the consideration of the primary school. The Centre Party considers that the right of parents to choose their children’s education to be adequately respected by the legal provisions in force and thus complies with Norway’s obligations under international conventions. Since the legislative amendment proposal goes beyond what we think is at the heart of the parental right, and partly back to what we opposed in the former law on free school, the centre party is against the proposed legislative change. The centre party also sees no argument that there is a need for a two-stage treatment of a possible new private school law, as the government here states. The Ministry stated in the letter of consultation that one of the objectives of the proposal for a derogation is to gain experience in applications for new schools that are innovative in relation to existing public and private schools. Well, with respect to reporting, this is perhaps a somewhat thin argument all the time the Council of State has notified that proposals for new private school law will come early in the winter and therefore are already under work. New schools to be approved urgently after this dispensation will hardly be able to see the light of the day — much less of any experience — before a new draft law has been dealt with by Stortinget. I agree with Mr Tyvand's excellent contribution on this very matter. We cannot therefore understand this in any other way than that the government will put a foot in the doorstep and seek a new basis of purpose into the law without a thorough and comprehensive treatment of the whole law. The centre party believes that it is unfortunate to make changes to the law that could lead to major consequences for the school structure without this being properly investigated. The justification for the proposal, the ability to allow private schools that provide specialistisation or another way to organise education, will open up a very large number of schools. A soul with a right of veto for municipalities will not be concerned with a narrow derogation, of which the government tries to give the impression, because where does the content and purpose limit go? How will the government define the word ‘innovative’? Such general and vague terms are not suitable for governing. The result may be that new approved schools may influence today’s school structure and the structure of supply, especially in secondary education, which may have adverse consequences for the rest of the pupils attending the general public school. Who will make a final decision as to whether to set up a private cooking school at Gjøvik? How is the county to dimension its offer according to an exemption scheme and to keep the breadth of the other offer to those who will go to the public school for those who will not travel on the shelf? For the supply locally is limited because of this law. The centre party wants to maintain a private school law with the right to choose an alternative, but says no to the liberalisation of the law, which we believe can be at the expense of the common school. We believe that the proposal for exemption contributes to uncertainty about the legal status and creates uncertainty for school owners, who are responsible for providing everyone with a quality good offer within the single school. We do not understand the need and believe the money to be spent on this, nor should it be used to enable the public schools to become more innovative. We do that by having a good municipal economy, and that's what I want my tax money to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1296	It is quite clear from the Left's 2013-2017 Grand Election Programme that we will ‘allow the establishment of incubators without a religious or alternative educational basis’. We've gone to the elections on this, and that's what we're going to try to get through for on behalf of our voters. At the same time, Left has a proud school history. It was the Left who in its time introduced the common school, a school where both poor and rich were placed in the same classroom. This is part of our story, and this we want to protect about in the future. For the Left, it is important that public schools are offered as the natural choice for most people. That's why knowledge has always been a priority for the Left. But we don't think of the private entries as a threat to the primary school. On the contrary, we view private schools as an important complement to public schools – they can contribute to innovation and provide us with new experiences in education and organisational forms. Then I have not realized that the Red-Green and Christian People's Party is against private schools, because they have introduced today's law, which opened up to both religious schools and schools with educational alternatives. For my part, I have some problems seeing the very big difference between a Christian high school and, for example, a Christian high school. a real-time college. It can't be that it's okay to start schools as long as you fill them with religious content, while schools that are concerned with the very subject and high quality of teaching are not allowed to start. But I'm not going to pre-empt the events too much, because this debate is going to take place later, when the government makes proposals for new law on high school. In this context, it is primarily the freedom of exemption that is to be debated and voted on. The government has set up a narrow dispensation facility pending the introduction of a new law on early school leave. According to the government itself, it could be appropriate to grant authorisation in a few cases. We know that there are many schools out there that want to start up, and many of these have waited a long time for a new political majority to come that makes it possible. This exemption is not intended to allow all those who have been waiting for eight years to apply to be granted authorisation, and the government itself has stated – and it is also stated in the legal text – that it is only in ‘specific case’ that a derogation is to be granted. In this round, the left has been concerned that there is a ‘closer access’ to which the exemption shall allow for opening up. We are therefore pleased that there is a unanimous committee which states that no exemption should be granted in cases where host municipalities or host Member States oppose such approval. The extent to which host municipalities and host communities will have influence over the establishment of private schools after the new law is in place, we expect a fairly large discussion when the proposal is presented. In the left, we have also programmed that we want a code that gives counties and municipalities control over the establishment of new school places. For this reason, it is also important for us that the Council of State does not now grant approval to schools – based on this exemption – which would not necessarily be allowed to start when a new law on early school leave is in place. So in the comments that the majority are behind here, we're making an already narrower dispensation access even more narrower. We are now looking forward to seeing what applications the Council of State receives, and what alternatives are moving out there. We see that we can quickly put in place both real-time and professional-driven schools, and that these experiences that the application process gives us are something we can take with us further into the work of new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1311	One of the most frequently used phrases in the election campaign last year was that the big shot was a 'directional' option. We red-green warn against a bourgeois government that would bet on tax cuts and privatisation bring welfare and community. The right answer was to crawl as close as possible to the centre of Norwegian politics as they could only. Torbjørn Røe Isaacsen then called Right for the new Workers' Party, and Erna Solberg assured that there would be no major changes; there would only be new ideas and better solutions. The summary after a few months with the Right-front party government is that Norway is slowly being taken in the wrong direction, including in the school policy. Read a party program to the Right and the Advance Party, their school policy projects are very clear – several private schools, increase competition. The Minister of Knowledge knows that this is a vision that does not have wide support among teachers, elephants and parents, and slowly, but surely Norwegian schools are taken in a blue direction. Ratings are not inserted in the Children's Ball - it will only be opened for testing the grades in the Children's Ball. And today we stand here and debate the proposal for an exemption for the approval of private schools. The requirements of the Private School Act are now comprehensive and established through thorough preparation and political negotiations, and the requirements are supported by a wide range of parties on the Stortinget. Without corresponding preparatory work, Røe Isaksen now proposes to give himself the authority to approve private schools at his own discretion. There will be no free slip, the Council of State will be able to insure, it is only about a'slow exemption access', but in the long run, Røe Isaken will remove today's requirement for a'special basis' in order to obtain approval to start a private school. Therefore, this is the first step on the road towards the privatisation of Norwegian schools, as we see the desire for in the Right and the Progress Party's programs. Over many years, the Right Party and the Advance Party have called for the privatisation of Norwegian schools, with some small nuance differences. Both want to open private schools, both want free schooling, and both want more testing and open test results to give parents greater choice. The biggest difference between these two is that the Progress Party also opens up to commercial school owners being able to take out the excess of the schooling, which the Right National Meeting went against. This policy is not knowledge-based and does not respond to a demand for privatisation in most people. Privatisation has little upswing in the teachers. The Education Association calls the proposal ‘unhappy and suspicious’. No more private balls have been requested by the students. The student organisations are ‘feared’ by the proposal. Nor is it the case that researchers or international researchers show that elephants learn more in countries with many private schools. On the contrary, Sweden’s experience has shown that the system of private schools, competition and free choice of schools has led to increased social and ethnic school segregation, widespread juxtaposition and weaker learning outcomes. Røe Isaksen's privatisation tool is not knowledge-based – it's ideological and interested. Today, there are queues of commercial operators ready to get part of the Norwegian sculakaka. When the Minister of Knowledge took over as the Council of State, he was quick to calm down those who feared a reversal of the Norwegian school, but it didn't take long for him to open up to attempts at grades in the school and several private schools. By doing so, he proves that it is fine to be a minister of knowledge without listening to neither researchers, teachers, parents, nor elephants. Right, their market liberals seem to be impregnated against knowledge of schools and learning. When it comes to private schools, the minister of knowledge does not listen to research, nor does experience from other countries seem to bite at him. The blue-eyed threat that a school market will create better education is without professional support and without professional support from those working in the sector. Today is the last chance to put a stop to the Minister of Knowledge project. The Christian People's Party has been clear from the beginning. The Left is the one who has won the plurality of this proposal. By this I would say that the Left has seriously chosen the side of school policy. The left says that they support the proposal because it is only about a narrow exemption. I think it's blue-eyed by the left. They now choose to give the Council a large space for action when they give it access to the discretionary admission of private schools. I had expected a more knowledge-based defense for the Norwegian common ball.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1328	The main starting point for government is public school. That's where we put the big money. That's where most of the students go and they're going to go. That's where we're going to start the greatest teacher's lift of the time. That's where we're going to have a real science strategy. That is where we need to strengthen the professions. That's where we're going to fulfill the promise of what I, among other things. has been called the ‘Norwegian dream’, namely that everyone should have equal opportunities, regardless of where they come from. But there's no difference between having a strong public school and having supplements. It is not that the strong public school is threatened if some parents in a village want to have a Christian free school instead. It's not that the public common school is threatened if someone in a business wants to start a school because they're extra busy recruiting good plumbers for the future and want to contribute to the education system in that way. It's not that public school is threatened by freedom of choice and diversity. But the starting point, the most important thing, is to bet at public school. But private schools and hospitals can be a supplement. It has already been mentioned here that there is no disagreement in the Stortinget about having almost free access to private schools that do not receive public support, where school money can amount to tens of thousands of dollars. In today's legislation, in theory, it's quite possible to start a private school that doesn't get one red ear in state aid and that's just for the richest. But it just shows the need for what we call ‘free schools’, and as a few, with a slightly longer term, is called ‘private schools receiving public support’. The boarding schools have two important things to do: First of all, we're giving them support. Why do we do that? Well, just because it shouldn't be the wallet that should be the determining factor for whether you have the opportunity to go there or not. Just because the opportunities are to be as equal as possible, and precisely because there are to be good conditions for driving an alternative, the majority in the Grand Duchy has also been brought in, for example. a capital contribution to the state budget free schools. The starting point for us to be for freshies is about three things: First of all, it is about parental rights. Yes, we're going to have a framework for children's growth in Norway. Everyone agrees. However, it is a right for parents to be able to choose an alternative for their children, for example: a Christian alternative or a pedagogical alternative. Starting point No 2 is freedom of choice. It must be possible to choose, and the burden of proof must lie on those who will restrict freedom of choice, rather than on those who want freedom of choice as a starting point. That doesn't mean that freedom of choice should be total, because in very many cases there are good reasons why we restrict freedom of choice, for the common good. But that means that freedom of choice must be founded. The third argument is that good forces must escape. It was President Mao who said, "Let the hundreds of flowers bloom." It's not that often I quote President Mao, but that was a very good point. We're going to let the good cancers go to make better schools for everyone. But we have to have some assumptions, and first of all, the assumption is that we're on the fissure layer from here, because we don't create a school system where all private schools have to do with incomes only from their parents, but by being able to operate in a way that makes them as accessible as possible. In addition, we need to regulate and make demands. As the Right-State Council, and as the State Council of a Right-Fremskrit party government, I'm not disappointed to say that we have to regulate and impose strict demands on the colleges. We have to demand content and quality. We have to demand that training is as good as in public schools. We have to demand that dividends cannot be collected and run commercial schools, where state aid goes to something other than the students. All of those requirements we're going to have. But we see that the approval system, or what we often call the purpose basis in today's law, gives some unreasonable results. It is not just religious and educational alternatives that are allowed. It's e.g. allow to start private schools specifically organised for talent in alpine or football. But if you want to start a school that is organized for talents in mathematics, physics, chemistry or professional science, it's strictly forbidden. It's an unreasonable outcome. That is why the government parties want us to have more fresh schools, which can be supplements to the public school – not a free slip, not a lack of regulation and not free from those who want it. The Government Declaration states that new schools are not to be approved where ‘authorisation will have a negative impact on public school provision’. It's precisely because we have to listen to the municipalities, and because the county municipalities should have the opportunity to dimension. There is an important restriction to ensure that the local school structure is not damaged. The State grant and the student allowance shall continue to benefit students in their entirety and the payment of dividends to their owners shall continue to be prohibited for fresh schools. We work closely on the proposal for a new law and use the time necessary to ensure that good investigations are carried out. That is also why we are now promoting a proposal for a temporary exemption scheme in the Private School Act. We propose to introduce a narrow access to the exemption from the requirement for recognition at the time until a new law is in place. The home meal will be strictly practised and it is clearly stated in the proposition that the exemption will only be granted in a few cases. I would also like to stress that it is only the requirement of the basis of approval that it can be exempted from. It is therefore not possible for the Storting to authorise the Council of State to approve any school. The other requirements of the law concerning the contents and quality of the school must be met in order for the exemption to be granted. I would also like to follow up on the majority comment by the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Committee that if the host municipality or the host state disagrees with such approval, it will not be approved schools under the exemption provision. The provision of dispensation will only apply to schools with a pedagogical offer or an innovatory organisation compared to existing public and private schools. We have also mentioned examples of this: a private real-school and some vocational schools. The legislative proposal specifies that the proposed provision provides only for the approval of new schools and not for the approval of operational changes in existing schools. We're proposing a narrow rule that should work for a short period of time. Subject to the consent of the Stortingen, this provision will enter into force immediately, and on the basis of the applications that may be promoted, we hope to gain experience with both actors and offers. These are experiences that can be useful in the work of new law on free schooling. I aim to present to the Stortinget a proposal for a new law in spring 2015. Although we are discussing the exemption clause today, it is worth using a few words for the broader free school debate. There are three problems with today's law on free school: Firstly, the purpose, that is to say, the basis of approval, is under pressure. For example, without the Ministry having touched a finger, without any changes to the legislation, this is now the case. permitted not only with religious schools but also with humanities schools within the religious recognition home. That means, as the representative Asheim said, that in the future you don't have to have a morning night. There will also be other possibilities. We also see that the objective can be put under pressure by, for example: there will be a large number of actors applying for new upper secondary education. Second, it's been a long time since this law came. The main elements of the law of Clement's free school are determined, but with the revisions that the red-greens did, with the support of the Christian People's Party, it is still years ago. We've learned a lot since then, for example. because it has been approved against 9 000 new student places in private schools under the previous government. It may then be reasonable to review the law to see whether there is a need for regulatory clarification and to see whether there may be a need for tightening. Thirdly, I believe that the political agreement on the law on free schooling is not particularly clear, among other things. because the Workers' Party has raised strong concerns about the possibility of starting religious schools. I want to end by hoping that the debate on fresh oils will be good, good, constructive and useful, and I think it has also been a good idea. For example, we were through an election campaign where the Workers' Party warned very strongly against liberalising today's free school law, but in Political Quarter this year, the representative Giske said that it sounded great with new cooking schools with new ideas, and that he could well discuss whether we should have a further concept of educational alternatives. The representative Marianne Aasen, on his side, said that these schools contribute to the improvement of Norwegian school. This should mean that you can have a debate about not also those who want to start a vocational school, a real-time vocational school or an industrial school, should be able to establish themselves. I believe that today's proposal provides a good starting point for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1395	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1398	It is a very advantage for a good and constructive debate that the Right now speaks the truth about its own private school policy. In the election campaign there was a sharp contrast to the message being delivered. When we pointed out that a right to start a private school with state subsidies would be open, given that only certain quality criteria were met, right denied this. Now, for example, the Council of State speaks true. Now it's just missing that he stops talking nonsense about the Labour Party's policy, you're on target. We're stuck on today's agreement, so the Council of States can stop saying anything else, but if it's open to a small adjustment moon that makes it more viable for the Council of States, we're open to discuss it. But that's not what this is about. It is a question of introducing a right to state aid in the next round, not this freedom of exemption. The Council of State defends today's private school law from the pulpit. My question is: does the Council of State understand that when he introduces a right to start a private school with state aid, he no longer has any control over whether this is a supplement or not, that it is then the private ones who decide it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1405	First of all, I would like to say that it is very good that you are open to discuss whether there may be things that need to be changed with today's private school law. I also look forward very much to the Workers' Party presenting something specific about what they think, since it obviously, in various public debates, comes signals that can be interpreted in different directions. It's not about a right to start up just because you say you want to start a school. There are some very clear demands here, and one of the changes that we in the Right have made in our policy – I can't speak for the second government party – is among other things. that we have said that negative consequences for municipalities and county councils should be a reason for not receiving approval. In the past, in the light of the law of Clement's high school, we said'significantly negative consequences', but we have seen, precisely for the sake of the debate and the experience we have had, that we should maintain the wording of today's law. What we think is unreasonable is the basic rules, which get exactly the results that many people here say are unreasonable. That you can start a high-school gym, I think it's great, but if you want to start a real-school gym, it's basically not good to apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1412	In his speech, the State Council of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen said that there are innovative schools that are now to be authorised, and the real-time upper secondary school is still mentioned. Now, once again, Norwegian school has been doing real science as long as Norwegian school has existed. You've also been doing language for a very long time. They're actually very good at teaching people language and real science, and there's even a lot of high-schools around in Norway that run very high-level real-life education. It's going on in the Drama. It's happening in Tromsø. It's going on in Fredrikstad. What I'm asking is, if you make an application for a school that is quite similar to the schools we actually have – I know, among other things. about a school in Bærum – if we have that kind of school in public, do we need some supplement, or will the Council of State think this is so innovative, even if we have it, that he will grant permission?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1419	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative that there is an incredible amount of exciting happening in Norwegian school, and I must also say that I think it is one of the most important things that remains after the Bondevik II government, namely that the centralist grips and centralist governance of the Norwegian school were released in order just to launch local initiative. I cannot process individual applications here. We've mentioned some examples, real-time upper secondary education is one, vocational schools are another. Then we'll see when the applications come, whether it could be considered innovative compared to the public offer. The drama is a very good example. They include: started a research line that I have heard very well about. It is also interesting that the county council explicitly justified it by the fact that a private school in Drammen had such a good offer of real science and research that they had to go in and compete with this school, and they established a research line to draw students to public school. That I think is a good example of how multiple supplements can create dynamics in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1428	At first we heard the representative from the Right earlier today tone down this matter by saying that this is only about a very narrow exemption. In the course of his intervention, the Minister of Knowledge had a broad-based argument for the liberalisation of the private school law. I thought it sounded less and less daunting the more he spoke, and it reinforces the impression that it is not picking up experiences that are the main cause of this change in law. We in the Workers' Party are very much for knowledge. We are for investigations, for hearings, for impact investigations – ‘you name it’ – to get a better decision-making base. But to quickly approve new private schools in order to gain better experience with applications for private schools is to shoot sparrows with cannons. I'm really wondering what kind of experience the Council of State is going to have to make in the few weeks from the deadline for applying, until the law is to be consulted, and what kind of experience it is he's going to make, which he couldn't get just by talking to the private school actors that this applies to, or by giving them his recordings through consultation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1437	Let me first secure the representative by saying that we are not going to quickly approve the schools that are applying. It is the same in-depth application procedure as for other applications for post-secondary education. Let me give you an example. Let's see who's applying, what kind of basis they have. Let me take as an example the statements the Labour Party itself has made, that for example. is a great idea with cooking schools. It would be interesting if the Labour Party now obviously also believes that there might be reason to consider whether today's private school law should have room for example. a cooking school. So it might be interesting to get experiences with who it is who is applying, what kind of arrangements they are sketching, to see how a new law of free school might be able to back it up as a basis. That's interesting for us to know. It's interesting to see who's applying, how they put it up, and it's important information to involve themselves in the work on new private school laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1442	This is actually a matter of exemption, but it has become a broader debate on private schools, and I therefore want to ask the Council of State a question about parental rights. He mentioned in his post that he is concerned about parental rights in private school policy, and then I expect that he believes the parent as it appears in international conventions. It's actually no human right to go to a real-school or a private elite school, but it's a human right to send the children to a school that's in line with their own religious, moral, or philosophical beliefs. At the same time as the Council of State wants to open up several types of private schools, it warns of a tightening in which it will be more difficult to establish a school that has a negative impact on public school provision on the ground. I fear that it will make it more difficult to establish alternative schools in smaller places, and that the parent there is under pressure. My question is, how will the Council of State ensure that parental rights are respected even in small places?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1450	To clarify a misunderstanding, I may have been unclear: what is in the government statement is ‘negative consequences’ for the municipality or county municipality. In the past, in the context of the Clemet school law, there was a ‘significant negative impact’, i.e. a higher threshold for emphasis to be placed on it. In other words, the Right Party and the Advance Party have stated in the Government Declaration that the basis of the day should be retained. That is the starting point for the objections of the municipality and the county. As far as the parental right is concerned, I fully agree that there is no right to go to a real-time vocational school. I think you have to sort out the arguments for having fresh oils, but the starting point here is that as a country we have said that starting a private school without any public support – and there are legal constraints on it too – is something you can do. What we're discussing here is which schools are going to receive public support, and I think it's an important principle that they should have public support, just to prevent that there won't be too much economic difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1457	The council said the private school law was under pressure. Then I asked myself the question, "Why is that?" I also think the Council of State should do that. When, for example: If private vocational schools are mentioned, we have to ask the question: why are there any people who want those vocational schools? An example from More and Romesdal we heard about at the hearing. A high school had been built without a workshop room. It was a new, big, high school. It was hopeless for them when they were going to take the students from high school into the professions. Then the question is: does the Council of State not see that it would be wise to wait for a change in the private school law until we were able to put in place the measures the Stortinget actually decided on last year in the field of vocational education? For those who are now to receive the apprentices, they do not get the apprentices they want. Doesn't the Council see that it would be wiser?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1462	I believe that those measures could work together. I believe that this could provide more apprenticeships and improve vocational training. But it is clear that we have no guarantee of how many people want to start, for example. a vocational post-secondary non-tertiary school. We don't know that in advance. The reason I say that the qualification basis is under pressure is among other things. Because of the change in the legal understanding that now gives you humanities schools — at least the possibility to apply for it — and not just for example. a Christian school. I think that's a press base. I also believe that because it is so clearly defined which basis of approval is in the law, it may mean, for example, that. Many actors will seek to create high-school gymnasiums, while perhaps you really want to start a slightly different type of school. Then I think it is more tidy and clean-haired to have a law that does not determine whether to start or not, but the content and quality criteria. I believe that there may also be room to tighten something on some parts of today's law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1467	Now there is a different political majority than it has been in the last eight years, which means that there is now a majority to open up more players to start private schools. It's a work that's already started, and that we're going to talk more about in the autumn, and I expect the government to put in place a majority for, among other things. with the left. But what we're dealing with now is the dispensation that's going to apply until a new law comes into effect. For us, it is important that this is a narrower dispensation, and that there is no way to allow all of those who in the last eight years have had a desire to start up, because they are to be evaluated under the new law on high school. There are only a few schools for which this access should be valid. My question to the Council of State is: what number does the Council of State really see as a separate exemption under this exemption law?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1474	It's not possible to say an exact number, but we've hit it very clearly to give us the basis for saying that there's a very narrow access. There shall be a requirement that there is a genuine different offer or alternative to the public. We've said that there should be renewal behind it. We have mentioned some concrete examples. In the law-enforcement process, there is a discussion about geographical distribution, i.e. how this can possibly be placed around in Norway. Without pre-empting the procedure – if there is a very large number of applications, it is probably very likely that there will be more people who will not get them. So I'm pretty sure this will be a narrow dispensation access. I am also quite sure that we will get quite a lot of useful information out of this, and look forward to presenting a new law in 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1479	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1482	Today, it is proposed that we urgently introduce a derogation to allow the government to approve private schools without having to take into account the purpose criteria of the Training Act. It's not a good time for the government to gain experience. The new law on free schooling has already been notified. It is said that it has been working for a while. The council says it will be presented to the Stortinget after everything to judge in the spring of 2015. In the big private school debate, the arguments of the citizens are often repeated. It is said that one does not necessarily want to privatize for the sake of privatisation. You want to privatize to give students freedom of choice and ensure breadth in school. In this context, for example, it is mentioned, even today, that the start-up of real-time vocational schools and some private vocational schools is mentioned. Students have different needs and desires. That is why we already have a private school law that, for example, opens schools that offer comprehensive, alternative education. But students also have different needs and desires that embrace far wider than alternative education, pupils who enter and plan to go to primary school. That's why it's important that we have an open and curious school that tries out new forms of teaching and organized arrangements. My opinion is that the schools are doing their best to meet the needs of the students. My former high school, for example, had for many years a separate science class, with emphasis on nature and outdoor life. My former high school, and many with it, have established international courses. The neighboring school, Skien Secondary School, has established its own research line. Lunde's continuing school in Nome has put out much of the professional education to the corner stone company Bandak. These are some examples in a small perimeter around my life. Nevertheless, I would also like even greater breadth than what we can offer in school today by methods, schemes and forms of cooperation. But the difference between the Labour Party and the Right is that we believe it is fully possible and best to facilitate this in public terms. There are several examples to show that this is possible. Ruseløkka school in Oslo, for example, offers an organized arrangement for students at ballet school. We believe that such offers should be tried to benefit several Norwegian public schools. The representative Kristin Vinje writes on his blog on February 7 in response to the question: Why change the law? \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The government has been crystal clear on one thing: quality and knowledge in public schools is one of the government’s main policy projects. Free schools shall provide us with diversity and supplementation and contribute to developments that give breadth to the school offer in order to meet the needs and needs of the different students. We then need to adjust the law so that requirements for purpose must be replaced by content and quality requirements.» The Labour Party believes that the government is abstinent in school policy when it is suggested that the school should be privatised in order to ensure its schooling. I think it's the opposite. The width and freedom of choice shall be ensured when available to the greatest possible extent. Commercial school actors in Sweden have led to character pressure and poor correlation between positions and exam characters. Private school actors in Denmark have led to little control of school content, and there are examples of siiling of strong and weak pupils when they are admitted to high school. And we have private school actors in Norway, where the majority, two thirds, are taken for granted with budgets in relation to dividends. We can take the chance and think that everything will be different this time. But why should we? Rather, let us exploit the potential of public schools — which most of the children in Norway already have — even better than what we can do today, with greater scope for meeting students’ different needs. It's completely possible. But then the focus must be on just the public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1506	I choose to start by commenting on something I believe is the abuse of quotes from the Council of State recently. He says that I have said that some private schools in Norway can be learned from. Of course. But it cannot be used for income because I am to privatize Norwegian school. The same applies to a quote from Trond Giske. He should have said that it might be nice to set up some cooking schools, or something in that way. That's what Trond Guess might have said, but the point is that's not what we're talking about. Creating some cooking places here or some real-life colleges there is not a problem in itself – nor do we have montessori and stone schools, which we have learned a lot from over many years. It's about whether we're going to change the Norwegian school system from a much larger and longer perspective. That is what this debate is all about – because more private schools are a taboo for the Right, it is not for the Workers' Party. There's an ideological distinction between the right and left sides of this question, and it's essentially about whether we should call about the common school or not. Do we want the public to run the vast majority of schools in Norway or not? Do we believe that school is a matter for which the public should have the primary responsibility or not? The little law change that we're now seeing can be the beginning of a big change. That's why we're on guard like that. We also understand that it can be about some cooking school and some less grip, but that's not the big danger – whether you get a real college in Bærum. The big change it can bring about is that one in the long run changes the school, as we've seen in our neighboring country. That's why there's a bigger case than what's in the taste of many of the representatives of the Right. I don't get any less disturbed by hearing the debate, either, what the Progress Party Bente Thorsen said, or the very ideological speech of the Council of State, the Red Isaac. It's not like the Workers' Party is against all private schools. The debate has been going on for so long that most people should have brought it. We have about 5 pst. private schools in Norway today, and we should. That's right. The agreement with the Christian People's Party is good. All that Anders Tyvand said in his post, I support. Religious or pedagogical alternatives, as well as some special schools with a primary focus on upper secondary education, are allowed, but here we set the limit. And that's what we're discussing: where should the limit go? I'm aware that it can take place on some challenges. That is why we must also be able to discuss, for example, the matter. cross-border schools and the creation of some private schools because the local school is laid down. But in sum, it's about the Workers' Party wanting a school where we all meet across differences and inequalities, whether it's because of religion, economics, or parent resources in other ways. It's an important goal in itself. We have to call about the local school in the city and build around the country and prevent us from having such a development in schools that we see in Sweden and that we have seen in Denmark. Today's exemption may be seriously isolated, but fortunately we've got a veto right, thanks to a good work in the committee. But it worries me that you celebrate the requirement for purpose, because it opens the locks for something we don't know what is. I do not feel that we have received an answer to this during the debate. Which schools get yes, and which ones get no – and why? And who should be able to start school? In the election campaign, we heard from the representatives of the Right that it was good schools – what it is that can be defined as it is. I think it's naive to think that no commercial interests find Norwegian school market – because that's what we're going to get – interesting. The prohibition of profit is very good – and fortunately most of us agree on it, including the Right – but it is challenged by people who create creative corporate systems, and conduct creative accounting. If you want to prevent it, you have to have quite a large and very competent bureaucracy, which is resource-intensive, to make sure that it doesn't cheat. Finally, I would like to point this out with linguistic or pedagogical developments in language schools, real-time vocational schools or other types of schools: but that is what the school is doing. As I said in my reply, the Norwegian school is good at it, and there is a lot of good development there. That's why I find it strange that the representative Bente Thorsen says that today's public school has such a tight frame and is so statically run down. Well, the Right Party and the Advance Party have the power to do something about it together with parties here on the Stortinget – the bourgeois parties – so I don't understand why you don't do it, instead of opening up to something that could be a pretty massive privatisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1519	Let me first give honor to the Council of State for unambiguous, clear speech. Such a warm ideological defense for the privatisation of Norwegian school, I think almost just the Progress Party has done so far. We get a very clear line from the Council of State. It provides the basis for good debates in this Chamber. Let it be that the argument about gaining experience before presenting a bill in a few months' time is so thin that it does not stand as a believer. This is, of course, the first step towards what the State Council itself writes in the proposition, namely a right to state aid. The word «right» is not an invention of the Workers' Party, it is stated both in the Government Declaration and in the Proposition – of course by fulfilling certain quality criteria, such as the need to comply with the Accounting Act, the Labour Environment Act, etc., such as other activities. Also leave it to try to add completely different points of view to the Workers' Party by twisting and twisting quotes. When we say, well, if that's the way the purposes are too narrow, let's discuss these purposes, if that's the way the public school needs a private cooking school because the government can't deliver it. It would be almost like if the Right was for some kind of charge, we would say that the Right was to increase charges in general in Norway. Of course it's not like that, and I think the Council of State knows well. This is a new system. It's a system that we know from other countries, where you do three things at the same time. Firstly, a right to State aid for private schools, which is free to establish itself, is given certain quality criteria, but – as the Council of State stresses – with an opportunity for municipalities and county councils to protest. We saw how things went with these protests under Clement. If there were significant or minor objections, almost all the counties were overrun in their refusal to secondary private schools in their counties – the government nevertheless said yes. The second principle is that students should of course compete for places in these schools. School choices only apply to those with good enough grades, or skills and facilities — which they look at in the United Kingdom when interviewing five-six-year-olds entering private primary schools. The other ones get to choose the schools they didn't, maybe, had as their first wish. The third thing that needs to be done to make this system work is to rank the schools, so that a dynamic competition is given to probably raise the quality. The problem is that this system is not working. If we are to have a knowledge-based, science-based school policy, we need to look at the countries that have introduced this system. Let's take our neighboring country Sweden. It was said here from the representative of the Progress Party that it was not proved that it was the privatisation that had resulted in the strong level reduction in Swedish school. No, but at least what we can say that it has not led to is leveling. It has definitely led to greater differences. It's empirically proven. But we also heard the well-known Swedish school researcher Jonas Vlachos say at a recent seminar in Oslo that there was much that suggested that privatisation had also contributed to the reduction in levels, among others. the lack of clarity of ownership and less holistic and consensus requirements for quality in school in Sweden. But if you know that at least it doesn't lead to leveling, why put this as its major battle cause in school policy? Why not do the things that we know give a better school for everyone: make sure that we can have a common school where we can raise the level of continuing education for all teachers – and not have one team here and one team there – ensure that we can make early efforts, develop educational material, provide better school management, provide the support functions we want, such as school health services, counselling, etc., provide good school building, ensure coherence between school and professional life, which we do not least need to get more through high school. We know much more than we did ten and twenty years ago about what works in school policy. We also know that privatisation doesn't work. It creates greater differences, and it does not raise the quality – on the contrary, there is a lot of evidence that it lowers the quality. I think the Council of State is painfully aware that this is a line that has little support in the Norwegian people. The municipalities know that every penny that goes to the private schools is taken from the public municipal budgets, which have to be cut when the private schools occur. I also believe that far into the Left Party there are many who want to be together with the Christian People's Party and the Red-Greens about making a ring about today's policy, which is at the public school, and which provides a room for some private supplements – as the Left's representative also spoke about in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1538	Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on the major lines of Norwegian school policy. In fact, we don't very often have temperature-filled debates in Stortinget. Today, we're raising ourselves to ideological heights, making you lose some important shades, especially in this case. So let me show you what we're really talking about here today. We're talking about fire souls — fire souls who want to create a better school, which will stretch for what they believe in. They want to move boundaries. They want to create something new. It's the fires we talk about when we talk about the private school law. Private schools with lower subsidies are still financed than public schools. Still, the law prevents you from making money in private schooling. Those who then take the step and want to create something for Norwegian school must be called fires. For these fires it must be a little confusing to listen to the debate here today. In political speeches, we pay tribute to the fires in our society – those who go ahead, who stretch a little extra, and who in many areas contribute positively. In the case of school, the picture is different for some people here in the hall. When we know about the many people who don't complete or do not pass our 13-year-old schooling, it's challenging to understand that some people can claim that we don't have to challenge today's ways Norwegian school is connected. Some parents and young people who choose differently are likely to do so for good reasons. With many school owners around Norway, school development is so frequent. Divergence in School-Norway through the Private School Act not only contributes to development but ensures choice for those who need it. At the same time, local community considerations apply. Schools which have a significant negative impact on public schools will not be approved. In yesterday's Nordlys, the representative Martin Henriksen came forward and announced that with today's change, we will receive Coca Cola high school. Not only is it unprofessional, it is also a total record bomb regarding what this case is about. It's about the flames that burn for something new. It's about diversity, and it's about stretching towards a better school. Sometimes it may be difficult to get what the Workers' Party really wants with private schools. When Henriksen's party itself was in position, there was a much more pragmatic relationship with the question. I might as well say that the red-greens think it's totally okay with the Coca Cola school – only it's based on montessoripedagogics or maybe it has a top sports line. The serious point is equally full: a number of private schools were also approved during the red-green ageing period – in fact, well over 9 000. Why, then, it should not be possible to develop new pedagogical school schemes, or why it is okay with private schools as long as sports talent is available, while providing facilities for those with talent in physics, chemistry, mathematics or, for that matter, language, suddenly is so critical that it threatens the entire Norwegian school model, is not a believer. In addition, when the Council of State stresses that the home should be strictly practised, and that the proposition clearly states that exemptions should be granted only in a few cases, it can only mean that through the applications we get examples that will enrich Norwegian school and that will be able to do our work with a new law for the autumn and beyond much, much better. I therefore welcome today's marginal but important exemption in the private school law. It facilitates the many school fires around Norway that will show just how they can bring forward new ideas and better solutions for Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1557	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1561	The Council of State said in its statement that the purpose is under pressure, and it presents as a problem that it is now also opening up to humanities schools in Norway. In the Christian People's Party, we do not consider it a problem in itself. We're concerned about the parental right. It must apply to all, regardless of religion or view of life — even to parents with a secular view of life. I agree that there is a risk that the law may be eroded by actors who are not really concerned with providing an alternative, which is not really concerned with helping to comply with parental rights, but who are only concerned with running school. It's a problem, but we don't solve this problem by giving these actors a legal right to run school. I think it is interesting that formerly in the debate, the representative Henrik Asheim asked for clarification as to the position of the Workers' Party in private school policy, and that the Right obviously needs to involve a major debate on private schools when we are discussing the freedom of exemption today. I fully agree, I also need to discuss private school policy with the Workers' Party. I also responded to the statements about a possible Muslim school in Norway. I am pleased that Trond Giske today gave a clear explanation: the Workers' Party is firmly committed to the agreement with the Christian People's Party. But when Henrik Asheim warns the Christian People's Party against the Workers' Party, I must say that I also noticed the resistance of the Advance Party to a Muslim School. So there is – as I experience it – a lack of principle thinking in these questions far into the government's ranks. I fully agree, we need a debate. We need a clarification about where the lots are standing. We need a big debate on what kind of private school policy we are going to have in Norway – and we need that debate before we give green light to new private schools in Norway. This is precisely why it is quite wrong to go in to grant exemptions today, so that the Council of State will be able to approve new private schools, when the Stortinget first sees what changes in the private school law government sees fit, and only next spring will take that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1572	I say a thousand thanks for the debate and will just clarify two things. In the case of humanities schools, the representative, Tyvand, formulated what I meant to formulate – it is possible that I was unclear. The problem is not that you want to start a humanist school by itself, but of course it puts pressure on the limitations of today's qualification base. What is at risk of such an increase in pressure is schools which, in the worst case, are more difficult to control. I just want to stress: the representative Guess said that the funds for private schools are drawn out of the municipal budgets. I will not try to be polemic and mention that this must have been the case for the approx. The 9000 places that were approved in the preceding eight years, but instead of saying that it's important to bear in mind that one of the things that every private school points out is that they get 85 pst. of the cost of a student. This is a very large and quite complicated system – there are several factors involved – but the private schools get less money per student. No capital grant was granted until 2014. The costs of construction, etc. they have had to put on their own coat.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1581	While I was sitting and listening to the debate on the changes proposed in the private school law, I came to think of a book that was published a few years ago, about the emergence of private schools. The book had the title ‘Friskolen — Gjøkung’s unit school?’. The title is good and in many ways also indicative of the issues addressed by the debate here today. For my part, I don't look at these schools as patrons. All the parties here are for a strong and good public school. We share that goal. In the right we've been crystal clear that we want a public school to be so good that no one should want or choose anything else because of lack of quality. That's our first and greatest educational policy task. Furthermore, it also looks like all the batches are for a certain amount of fresh oils, and then it's strange to me that the temperature is rising to the great heights when we discuss this despite all the limited amendment. The working party uses most of the time to talk about how we can limit the 3 pst. by primary school students and 7 pst. by those in high school who attend a high school, instead of facilitating those who, for some reason, do not find what they need in primary school. The representative of the Aasen troubles the use of her quote in the class struggle earlier this year, where she says: «We in the Workers' Party are not against private schools. On the contrary, we have entered into an agreement with the KrF that it should be possible to start private schools, and we believe that these schools contribute to the improvement of Norwegian school». It may be, but when we have heard the comments of Martin Henriksen earlier today, the message becomes unclear, and then the Workers' Party must also bear in mind that questions are asked about where you stand in the free school debate. Has a changed position or is one at what one has previously said and done? The objective provisions can give unreasonable results that are difficult to defend, and that is what we want to do in this amendment. To the representative Christian Thinning Bjørnø: The government does not abdicate school policy. If we are to realize the knowledge nation of Norway, there must be room for some variation in school provision, and that is what it is now being prepared to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1604	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1620	In 2010, the state councils called Trond Giske and Terje Riis-Johansen to the press conference together with the energy company General Electric. They presented the big news that the Americans would invest 600 million. kr in offshore wind technology in Norway and create 100 new jobs. Mr Riis-Johansen, Minister for Oil and Energy, said: ‘There is a size and perspective on this. Norway shall be world leader in offshore wind.» [[...]] Minister of Economic Affairs Giske wasn't snuck either: ‘Sometimes in politics you feel you’re into something that’s really guiding. Norway shall participate in the next major industrial venture at sea.’ The largest treatment of the 2008 climate notification had been fired by the start of a Norwegian sea wind bet. It was to be invested in marine wind research, developed a legal framework and set up a sea wind strategy. Environmental energy research centres and pilot projects were established through Enova. 735 million. According to information from the Council of State, Lien is used for research, etc. on sea winds since 2008. In 2010, the NVE presented the report Sea Wind – proposals for exploration areas. An impact study was carried out on the opening of sea winds to concession applications. The two concrete Norwegian demonstration projects for offshore sea winds, Sway and Hywind, tried groundbreaking technology and attracted great international attention. The legal framework for sea wind was put in place by the Sea Wind Act in 2010. But then the sea wind policy was speeding up. After a year and a half, General Electric pulled out again. This was due to a lack of domestic market for marine wind in Norway. The allocation of projects in open sea wind areas stopped, the sea wind strategy is not established, Sway is closed – or at least under sale and some form of marketing – and Statoils Hywind is scarcely heard. Statoil signals that they don't have any special bet plans there. Research centres are beginning to signal signs of confusion. The absence of political priorities and foreseeable framework conditions for marine wind deployment for business naturally leads both researchers and investors to wonder whether it is worth investing. One explanation of the stagnant state of the sea wind in Norway is that the only important renewable effort we have had in Norway in recent years is completely counterproductive in sea wind. The technology-neutral green certificates provide subsidies to the oldest and cheapest technology, namely hydropower. Sea wind is the big loser and gets nothing. Unfortunately, the green certificates have become a political sleeping cushion that has seriously weakened the development of new, renewable technologies. Another explanation, of course, is the economic boom in the oil industry. The money follows bets and framework conditions. Concessions have been granted, for example: sea wind concessions outside of Møre and Romesdal, at Havsul, but that project lacks funding. We're in a situation that starts to worry a lot about the development of the carbon capture project at Mongstad: first big visions and big bets, and then enjoy the air still out of the balloon. That is why political clarification is urgent. International maritime wind action is now taking place. There are already more than 6 GW sea winds in Europe, 50 GW are planned by 2020, China is planning 30 GW by 2020, etc. This happens, but more and more parts of Norwegian policy and business are expressing concern about unilateral oil dependence. Most – if not all – parties say that the major investment in the next generation of sustainable Norwegian business must be undertaken. It is not particularly controversial that this development of a business to ensure the quality of life in Norway in 20 and 50 years' time must, in fact, involve the active political prioritisation of new solutions, significant financial bets, real risk-taking when new solutions are being tested and the willingness to create predictable framework conditions that make it meaningful for business and research to bet. If we are to develop an industrial policy for sea wind, we must do so. It's definitely not going to happen by itself. With the groundbreaking electrification we get at Utsira, which is adopted in Stortinget in an instant – or in a moment – today, suddenly new opportunities open up to us to think seawinding. The Green Party therefore promotes this interpellation in order to challenge the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Storting to seize this opportunity, either through an ambitious and committed effort on marine wind development directly linked to the Utsira Height, or through better alternatives, if they exist. Either way, the Utsira decision we're about to make, is an opportunity we have to use. Are we going to do something about sea wind in Norway, or are we going to dust this renewable technology into a drawer along with wave power and other lost opportunities? We have known for a long time that Norway is over the best sea wind resources in Europe, we have long known that Norway has prerequisites and an industrial need that makes sea wind a natural area at least to be explored, and is likely to invest in. We have long seen that the technical potential for Norwegian sea wind is in the order of 14 000 TWh, i.e. a great deal, and that the commercial potential is at least around 300 TWh. NVE has recommended looking at 10 pst. Of that, about 30 TWh -- even that's a big number. Today, the Stortinget takes lessons from Mongstad. The good thing about Mongstad was political and economic commitment, the bad thing was unwilling about real commitment and actual implementation. For the Osira Height, the Storting adopts concrete and binding leaderships that ensure that electrification is carried out even if it has costs. We must now take this lesson on to Norwegian sea winnowing. NVE has brought out the Utzira as one of the most promising sea wind fields. Researchers at Chr. The Michelsen Institute believes it is possible to realize a test wind farm in Utsira by 2022, NTNU has presented similar solutions, and Statoil has signaled that such a test is technically feasible. The Utsira area is now provided with an infrastructure with cables and other installations. There are just shortcomings like this that have been a cause and an important reason for the lack of sea-winding so far. The Utsira field has potential buyers of power, and thus a sea wind park at the Utsira altitude can be the first hub of a future renewable offshore infrastructure in Norway. Such a solution can also, to a certain extent at least, make the reality of the constant promises that Norwegian oil technology will be the platform and birth aid for future energy production and renewable infrastructure. The Green Party therefore asks the Government to use the research produced by large allocations to explore a pilot park for marine wind and energy storage at the Utzira Height. The pilot park should be used to develop a technology, identify and solve challenges and to open up new opportunities for businesses, which are currently delivering to the oil industry. A test park could also, of course, serve as an exhibition window for technology exports later. Another option that needs to be considered is, of course, the use of the model from the German Energiewende, with input or feed-in tariffs. Sea wind is going to be expensive for a while before it gets cheap. That's the way it was with land wind, the way it was with sun and that's the way it is with all the other new technology. So the German feed-in tariffs have produced, as we now know, hundreds of thousands of jobs, 50 GW new capacity and got the prices of wind, and especially the sun, dramatically down. Norway may think similarly in the case of sea winds. If Norway ever has to find out if sea winds have a future, we have to do it now. We have to decide whether we want to use the possibilities that electrification of Utsira will take place, or whether there are even better solutions. If we answer no to both, it is difficult to see that there is some way forward for sea wind power in Norway. There's little reason to think that if we don't keep cooking, there would suddenly be newer and better opportunities in some unknown future. Not only will it not be possible to use the Utsira capability as a problem for further bet on Norwegian sea wind, there is also a risk that we will thus pull the carpet away during the rest of the further development of all Norwegian wind power because there will be very few perspectives left after 2020 at the end of the green certificate scheme. Marine wind in Norway, combined with increased transmission capacity for power, can become an industrial cheek egg in Norway. We can further contribute to the phasing out of fossil energy use and greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. We can contribute to an increased renewable share in Europe and create jobs, and there is little doubt that sooner or later sea winds will have to become an important part of renewable power systems. We are aware that the forthcoming revised strategy for climate-friendly energy technology, which I believe the Council of State will receive this month, is expected to recommend some kind of test park for marine wind. Well, in that case, it's promising. The question now is how the government will take these sea wind possibilities further, and whether – to go back to Riis-Johansen and Giske – it will be the size and perspective of Norwegian sea wind bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1666	Thanks to the representative Hansson for a very good post. Some of the overall reflections the representative expresses are reflections that I share. While it is true that the wind conditions in Norway, including those on the base, are good – and there is not least a lot of sea area to take off – it is, as the representative Hansson points out, very high costs related to the development of wind power at sea – significantly higher than to wind on land and, of course, much higher than to hydropower. What we have with us is exactly the hydropower. Norway differs from other countries in Europe and the rest of the world by having almost exclusively renewable power generation in our energy system. It is mainly from our large, valuable water resources, which provide not only renewable energy but also adjustable power as well as good shore-based wind resources. Other countries in Europe and the rest of the world have a significant share of fossil energy production, which is to be replaced in the long term by renewable and non-emission energy sources. Several of these countries have limited capacity to expand renewable power generation on land and have therefore introduced marine wind support schemes to the extent that the development is actually realised. This can be seen in, among other things: made to meet the requirements of Brussels and the EU in the so-called renewable directive. This has contributed to very large cost increases for European electricity users. In Norway, there remains a high potential for land-based power generation in terms of both water and wind power, which will be much cheaper to expand than sea wind with the technology we know today. The Swedish certification system has provided for a significant expansion of renewable power generation by 2020. I do not see it as realistic that commercial marine wind projects in Norwegian sea areas can be realised within the framework of the certification system. Reality with wind power in Norwegian sea areas from a ten to twenty years perspective will depend not only on future power prices but also on technology and cost development. An important effort to facilitate marine energy in the long term has already been made, as represented by Hansson, by the Maritime Energy Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2010. The law states that the establishment of renewable offshore energy production can only take place after the country has opened up specific areas for concession applications. In order to open an area of wind power, a strategic impact assessment is also required under the Marine Energy Act. An important purpose of the work on the Law on Marine Energy was to put the framework conditions in good time before any expansion and to control land disposal at sea. As a follow-up to the law, a directorate group was first set up, led by NVE. It roughed Norwegian sea areas and pointed out 15 areas that could be relevant for offshore wind power. In 2011, the NVE started further work on the 15 sites designated by the group. That impact assessment was handed over to the Ministry in January 2013 and was sent to the hearing in the spring of 2013. The Government, as the Committee and the Stortinget will be familiar with, intends to present a major communication on energy policy. In a long-term comprehensive strategy for energy policy, it would be natural to include assessments of offshore wind power. Since I do not consider it realistic with the expansion of offshore wind power on a larger industrial scale in the coming years, I will come back to the issue of opening up areas in the field of energy reporting. So the representative Hansson talked a lot about research, development and demonstration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Law on the Law on the Energy of the Sea allows the Ministry to derogate from the provisions on the opening of the area by organising demonstration and pilot projects. This means that there can be concession for smaller projects at sea without the areas having gone through a strategic impact assessment. This would, of course, be relevant in the context of pilot and demonstration projects. So it is that Enova is another important tool to stimulate a targeted conversion of energy use and energy production and the development of energy and climate technologies. Enova provides investment aid for full scale demonstration projects under real operating conditions. Renewable power generation projects, including marine wind projects, may apply for aid from Enova. So the representative Hansson said that sea winds do not benefit from green certificates. Of course, that's not right. On the other hand, it is true, as the representative Hansson initially said, that the green certification system is technology-neutral and will, of course, also provide support for sea wind through that scheme. The government has also said in its platform that it will focus on research on renewable energy sources. This, of course, includes offshore wind power. Norway has strong professional environments. Norwegian offshore petroleum activity and maritime activities provide good conditions for Norwegian industry in the international sea wind market. Since 2011, sea wind has been one of six priority areas of Energy21 — the national energy R & D strategy — this reflects. Research and technology development contributes to increased cost-effectiveness, improved technological solutions and strengthened Norwegian competitiveness in this area. Norwegian environments are particularly prominent in the development of improved solutions for the installation and foundation of offshore turbines, as well as in efficient operational and maintenance systems. Projects in the field of offshore wind power have therefore received a good record in the competition for public research appropriations. These funds have mainly gone through the ENERGY research programme in addition to the two research centres for environmentally friendly energy – the FMEs – in marine wind called Norcowe and Nowitch. In 2013, the Research Council provided research support for a wide range of marine wind-related projects. These include the further development of floating concrete platforms for wind turbines, the modelling of wind and waves and the underwater pumping power plants associated with offshore wind farms. The current situation suggests that commercial offshore wind power in Norway is not realistic in the short term. So I don't think it's time to open up areas now. In the forthcoming Energy Policy Communication, it will be natural to assess this policy as well. At the same time, we are working to find solutions that can increase opportunities to exploit marine wind resources. Today, support can be applied for from Enova to full-scale demo. The government will also invest in research to reduce costs, and good research environments have been established for marine wind-related projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1694	I thank you for the response from the Council of State and notice how the Council of State underlines two things. One is the obvious fact that sea wind is not commercially competitive today. The second is that the government has no plans to do itself actively to facilitate concrete offshore wind power deployment beyond research. Is that what we've learned in the last 20 years, that the development of new climate-friendly and environmentally friendly technologies does not come about by itself? And it doesn't come out of the research laboratories without something more than research. What makes the difference is whether markets are built where large enough volumes of this technology can be produced to gain experience, get efficiency, get demand and start getting prices down. It's about the sun, it's about the wind, and it's not least about electric cars, which we have a good example here at home. What we hear from the government is, in other words, the expectation that a long period will now pass without active action and without the government's efforts to move the sea wind knowledge out of the laboratories where it has been for quite a long time, and into practical use where one can start the process of commercialization, which will be as necessary and as heavy in 20 years as it will be now. So the questions I have to ask the Council of State are: does the government have a expectation that it will be much easier to get sea wind commercially if we wait a while – some undefined period – as the government, as far as I understand, adds up? Secondly, does the government believe it is appropriate that the major investment, which has now been made since 2008, should continue without a new step – without a new phase – until something is done to literally get sea wind at sea? Thirdly, how does the Council of State view the role of Norway during a period when other countries actually rate commercial and practical to get sea wind to go, while we do not?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1705	I want to say one thing first – about hundreds of millions. The Norwegian Research Council is responsible for the use of 364 million. on marine wind research. Enova's spent 245 million. SEK and Innovation Norway SEK 126 million. kr. So first of all, there's something happening all the time. These are figures from 2008 until today. The authorities are doing something in this area. I would also like to comment on the fact that these are research results that remain in the laboratory. I do not agree with that. Firstly, there is a great deal of generic competence here that is currently used in land-based wind power projects in Norway. That is one thing, and the other is that this is technology that is being used in the countries that have opted for subsidy systems other than ours, for example. in the United Kingdom. This knowledge is currently used to produce new renewable energy and is also used by Norwegian companies abroad. So that's what I think we need to bring with us in this setting. I know that the Green Party has not been involved in making these decisions in Stortinget, but it is a unanimous increase that has adhered to the principles of green certificates – to create a technology-neutral and market-based support system. There hasn't just been a majority in this room. There has been unanimity around those principles. It is precisely to ensure that we get the most power out of the means we use, because I think we agree that it is by reducing the use of fossil-based power and increasing the use of renewable power that we are actually helping to reduce CO2 emissions from the European energy mix. So to the question of whether it would pay to wait: Yes, I think the representative Hansson himself illustrated that in an excellent way. It's obvious that it'll pay to wait. It's much cheaper with the sun today, precisely because. the conditions which the representative Hanssen himself drew up. And it's much cheaper to build wind turbines today than it was a few years ago. Of course that will be the case for sea winds too. As long as projects are developed and industrial experience in building sea winds is gained, it will of course be cheaper to do so in Norway as well. In a way, I also think that the representative Hansson is a bit unreasonable. First of all, I've said what we're doing in research. There are also systems today that provide support for demonstration projects and pilot projects on sea wind.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1721	The representative Hansson reflects an impatience that we also meet many other places outside the political environment, especially in the environments that work cheaply to produce good technologies for energy production, whether wind power in general, sea winds or other technologies that work with. There is obviously a high technical potential in Norwegian waters for offshore wind power. Globally, there is great potential for this, and it is seen as a major and important energy resource for the future. The problem, of course, lies in the costs. It is one of the most expensive renewable technologies at present. It's actually also a technology that has become more expensive in recent years, unlike any other technology that gets cheaper. So the question is, why don't we do something about it, and what can we do about it? I think the Council of State has explained brilliantly what we're doing with it. I believe that the Norwegian political environment, and as the Council of State itself pointed out, there is a cross-political will behind this, has relied on green certificates, on the law of the sea and the work done in that direction, and there has been considerable research support for the development of this technology. There is no domestic market for this technology in Norway — no, it is not. We're in the situation that we have nearly 100 pst. of our power generation based on renewable sources. We're heading towards a force surplus in the Nordic region. It's not like we have a desperate need for this renewable energy to convert from fossil to renewable energy. It has other countries, and other countries are also more at sea – in the simplest form for the time being. I would also like to believe that there will gradually be floating sea wind installations on a commercial basis elsewhere, paid with the feed-in from there. I think it is important that Norwegian technology is also used there. We see today that Norwegian technology is being used in other European countries. Norwegian companies are in and produce parts of sea wind. Norwegian companies are inside and own and run – Statoil and Statkraft are inside Sheringham Shoal in England. Investment decisions must also be made in the case of Doggerbank, which can become Europe's largest marine wind power plant in the future. That's good, because then you use the technology and the expertise you have from Norwegian offshore, oil and gas activities, and you make money on it. It is also an important matter in that regard. But when these countries spend money on sea winds, it is not primarily from a technological point of view. It is based on the need for renewable energy to replace fossil energy. That's very good. Overall, I believe that climate policy both nationally and globally is best served by moving for the most reasonable solutions as far as possible to achieve the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. If we are going to spend a lot of money in Norway producing an energy that we already have surplus, and then selling it on to Europe, which is no automatic in that we get either, it is the poor use of resources that we could put into far more productive projects that give greater climate benefit. We're going to have research and development on this, and I hear with interest the plans that have been on demo parks to test out new technology. I agree with the representative Hansson that it can be a good display window for Norwegian technology, but that in the foreseeable future sea wind will play a role in Norwegian energy supply, I have very little faith. But I believe that Norwegian companies can play a major role in technology development and management, operation and ownership in this type of project elsewhere, where there is a need for that energy. I think that's the best way to think about this kind of technology in the future from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1736	I must first say that I agree very much with what the previous representative said and will therefore brief me. I would also like to thank the interpellant for travelling an important topic. Norway’s sea wind resources can undoubtedly be worth a lot in the future. Today, however, the situation is that Norway is heading towards a significant surplus of power, the prices of power are historically low, the dividends from power companies are being reduced or absent. The owners of the power companies, which are largely public, notice that the flow of income is being reduced. Very many power companies feel that there is no economy in building up new power, despite the electricity certificate market. In this situation, it is not appropriate to invest in the development of large-scale offshore wind farms. Instead, we have to do more to apply the force we already have. We do this best by replacing fossil energy with renewable energy, where possible and appropriate, by facilitating more solid energy exports, i.e. eco-friendly industrial production and by building more inter-national connections where it is profitable. This will contribute to more predictable electricity prices and better climate accounting both at home and in our European neighbours. However, we should continue to support pilots and demonstration installations for sea winds and facilitate the use of Norwegian expertise from the oil and gas sector in the further development of marine wind technology. It may both enable the Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian technology environments to participate in the development of offshore wind projects in other countries, where the framework conditions and power situation are different from those in Norway, and it may help to make sea wind more competitive in Norway in the long term. It's expensive enough to save the world as it is, if we're not going to bet on the large-scale expansion of sea wind now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1751	It's true, as the interpellant has it, that we have good wind conditions in Norwegian waters, and that the sea areas cover large areas that one could use. And yes, there are many business environments that point to the opportunities that lie in marine wind resources and want to participate in the nutritional context of this activity. But when the same business environment is asked to buy the power at cost, interest is obviously less. One thing is clear – we see today that there is a low price of power, and we are on our way to a force surplus, which many people have been in. The costs of offshore wind power are simply considerably higher than for wind power and water power on land. The current situation therefore suggests that commercial offshore wind power in Norway is not realistic either in the short or medium term. Research and development to reduce costs is essential and, fortunately, a good research environment is also established on marine wind-related projects. In the Energy Policy Communication, it would be natural to assess policy in this area too in a broader context. But when that's said, there's also another advantage that puts the lead on where it makes sense to bet. Norway differs from other European countries in that almost all power generation is renewable. We have valuable water resources that are also manageable and good onshore wind resources. So that's essentially where we have to bet on, and that's what this government is doing. Europe and other energy-intensive regions face other challenges and are likely to need to see energy production at sea as a potential. Finally, a few words about the petroleum sector that the Green Party wants to remove. This sector has been decisive in the development of technologies that are crucial for marine wind deployment as well as in the transport sector, where many projects are now being launched to solve fjord crossings and other challenges. It shows that things are related, and you can't ignore the one thing, but it's about other things that you initially didn't see.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1764	Thanks to the interpellant who raises this theme and clearly refers to the impatience and the dawning pessimism that is in the marine wind environment. We have the legal framework clear, the research and competence environments are there, and I have expectations that the Council of State will continue to do so in the work on the coming energy communication. The North Sea oil has given us enormous values and has contributed greatly to the development of our welfare society. There's reason to be grateful for that. At the same time, we see that oil resources create major challenges. The combustion of oil and other fossil energy sources contributes to the destruction of the global climate by contributing strongly to global warming. Therefore, it is not desirable that everything be taken up and used. The use of fossil energy accounts for about 70 pst. global greenhouse gas emissions, at the same time increasing demand and use of energy in the world in line with population and improved living standards. Increased renewable energy production will therefore make an important contribution to improving the global environment. It has to be invested over 900 million. dollar annually to reach the two-degree target. Marine wind power could therefore provide a significant contribution to the renewable energy produced, including here in Norway. Therefore, it is important not to put an end to the investment now. It is a serious issue that the interpellant raises, as mentioned earlier, that the great optimism in the marine wind environments has been turned to pessimism. Unfortunately, the situation is not unique to Norway. Several countries have already invested significantly in the development of marine energy, especially in offshore wind turbines such as fixed installations at relatively small depths. But the financial crisis has slowed down the development of sea wind turbines worldwide. It is difficult to predict the future, but I have a hope that today's fossil energy production will eventually be replaced by renewables, including in the North Sea, and that today's oil installations in the North Sea will be replaced in a few years – perhaps many – by windmills and other renewable energy technologies. Marine renewable energy investment will represent opportunities for Norwegian enterprises and environments of competence. The global market for offshore wind power could increase rapidly. Norwegian companies can become part of this. We already have significant competences from petroleum activities at sea and power generation on land, and we have a great deal of sea wind, which together can provide unique opportunities for renewable energy production at sea. Norway today has an important position as an energy supplier for Europe. By further investing in energy production, we will further develop Norway’s role as energy tower power.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1783	In many ways I share the impatience of the interpellant after also being able to start developing technology and gradually expanding sea winds in Norway. It is natural to do so because Norway is a country where it is so well placed to increase the production of renewable energy in general, and in the long term also sea wind. But I think we have to admit that it's probably a lot of your way. What makes it so fascinating is this link between the rich natural resources on which this country sits, including in the case of renewable energy resources, and technology. This link has proved to be very good for Norway in many contexts. Oil and gas industries are thinking about the same thing, maritime industries are thinking about the same thing, maritime industries are also thinking about the same thing, and I think that also development and the use of renewable energy are going to be just connected between technology and natural resources. Norway has also done so in a good way, in the sense that we have managed to achieve clusters of both research, development and technology related to these industries. We should also have the ambition to do that both onshore and offshore wind power, and we should also have the ambition to do so on other renewable energy sources. But I think we'll recognize that it's a long way to go. However, it should not prevent the Government of the notified Energy Communication, as one has said, from coming back and giving a broad outline of the technology development related to sea wind, but also the possibilities of clarifying the ambitions we can have, as well as the strategy we should follow in the future. So I'm glad that the Council of State says that this will be addressed in the Energy Communication, and I think that the issue of opening up the area, but also the question of demonstration technology, and also the further direction and strategy, is quite important in that way. I think one has to admit two things. One is that I think it's unfortunate, as I felt the interpellant was about, to set different renewable energy sources up against each other. I think it is good for a small-scale project to be built up, I think it is good for one to build up wind power on land, I think one should expand more solar power in Norway, and I also think that one should continue to bet on sea winds. But we have to admit that some of the other technologies are cheaper and have come further than the sea wind has done. They will be developed first, but Norway as a renewable nation in the future should aim to be able to invest in all these areas. What stops us today is, as many people have been in, first of all, that we have a power market with very low power prices, and that in the years to come we will have a power surplus that can keep prices down, and that makes those who want to invest in it refuse to make those investments. It is then important for us to discuss through the scope and scope of renewable energy applications in Norway. That's exactly what we're going to include when we're going to discuss the electrification of the Utsira height later today. However, we should also discuss whether there are other possibilities for using Norwegian renewable energy, which will be very important for climate change, but which can also lead to a greater speed in the development of renewable energy sources. There may be industrial development, industrial applications, or there may be exports of renewable energy to countries around us. Sense if this is an interpellation completely concrete about sea wind, I still have to mention in this context that I almost see what is now happening with wind power on land, is more urgent. There we have to get started over the next six years, where we have to get into the green certification market, and there we have to avoid Sweden building renewable energy with a technology that we in Norway have all the prerequisites for having, and where we also have natural assumptions through good wind conditions. In fact, getting the concessions given on land-based strength, outsourced, makes the developers to invest there, making sure that those investments are possible and profitable. This is the challenge that the government and the Council of State should address in the first place. Then, in the Energy Communication, they should come back to and facilitate a broader discussion also on future sea wind objectives and strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1800	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for a very interesting interpellant, and also thank you for an interesting discussion and debate on the theme of sea wind, where it is quite right, as you say, that there is no change – where it is still. First of all, I would like to state that I believe that there can be no doubt that it is in strong Norwegian self-interest that we are involved in developing sea wind, not primarily because we need the sea wind power in Norway – here we have enough renewable energy – but because this is an area where we can really use the competence built in the petroleum industry to develop and exploit it in a different industry. There's a lot of sea wind in the United Kingdom, and there's a lot of sea wind in Japan. It is clear that it is important that Norway participates in this initiative, as an opportunity for Norwegian industry, and then we also need to build up the framework conditions that make it possible. Then it is right, as the representative Arnstad pointed out, that it is not just at sea that we have a problem, it is also on land. It also stands still with regard to the development of wind power on land. That's where we need to make a grip. It's not difficult, and it's not because it's resistance to wind power – it's in some places. So the reason why it's not being expanded is not resistance, it's simply because it's more profitable in Sweden. Then we have to change the depreciation rules, so that there is a level playing field, and we have to make greater flexibility towards the end point of the green certificates in 2020, so that we have the opportunity to get that development in Norway as well. Then, as many have pointed out, it is clear that we have many support schemes to conduct research on sea winds. It has to be reinforced. We also have support schemes to raise demonstration projects on sea winds. It should also be reinforced. This is to a very large extent about the willingness to use the resources needed to pull up projects, and it is definitely something that we in the Left are going to come back to when we are going to address the priorities that we are doing in future budgets in the years to come. This also applies not only to sea winds; it also applies to wave power, to tide power – there are many areas where we need to develop new technologies, where we need to see opportunities in a long-term perspective, not least for Norwegian industry, and in a situation where green certificates or the market alone will not be enough to get this production going. But then I think it's interesting that you also have to look at which areas – how to stretch – where there can be a sea wind market. It's when a couple of ocean winds connect with oil and gas production. It is clear that giving one the same framework conditions for offshore wind power as one has for other offshore energy production – with the same depreciation rules, with the same framework conditions – is approaching what could be a market, and it could have a self-interest in allowing oil companies to electrify platforms with sea wind and with an agreement that directly links sea wind production to an electrification of offshore industry. I'm not saying that it's enough to go up a development, but at least it'll help make it easier. And one can reach out to the first places, where one can get — just as the Council of State calls for — a commercial development of sea wind also in Norway. I think the comparison with the electric car, drawn out by the interpellant, Rasmus Hansson, is a good example. You created a framework that you were very early out with, in relation to what you could achieve. The same is true of sea wind – we are very early out there, we need to spend a lot of resources on research, we need to spend a lot of resources developing technology and getting the demonstration projects up. But at the same time, we also need to be creative – create a framework that allows you to stretch to get the first commercial marine wind projects in place. Then having a non-discrimination of energy production with sea wind as other offshore energy production is interesting, and something that we should definitely go further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1818	I feel the need to pump some cold seawater into the matter and say a few words, give some consideration – from a fisherman to the representatives. It's very good that we have research on this. We have looked at and developed some alternative solutions, we have improved technology and efficiency. Windmills at sea combined with oil and gas production can, as mentioned earlier, be a good idea, a good solution. We can't get past the fact that we're also struggling with nature. The sea is the strongest. There are many more forces there. We have corrosion, we have wind, we have stretchers – or waves, as some say – we have salt, and we have electricity, that is, the movement of tidal water. These are heavy forces. That's what we see living on the ocean. There is much more cost than that of installations located on land. We also know that there are a lot of costs associated with the wind turbines that are in those areas where there are a lot of waves, where there is a change in wind. It is a familiar matter that fishermen are concerned about the thoughts that we have – including in this room. It is clear that it will be cheaper to place these offshore wind turbines on shallower sea areas. The North Sea may be 50-70 meters deep in many places. Far north, in the Barents Sea, is 300 meters normal depth. There are windmills in the basic areas, i.e. on the sea grounds, and that's where the fishermen fish. Then we have a conflict: who is going to use the sea? This is a reality the fishing organisations have recorded, and we must take it seriously, because it requires a lot of space, and it must also be a part of security zones. I just wanted to say that. It is part of the salt water I want to pump into the matter, because it is very real – plus that there are costs that are not least we fishermen aware of by having facilities at sea. We have alternatives. We've let some of them go – tidal power plants. We have seawater moving up to 6 to 7 knots – it's 13 to 14 kilometers – per hour in some areas. And we had a project in Finnmark, but the previous government let the patent go to Scotland. There the whole Stortinget slept – we should have taken advantage of it, there are small plants that don't take so much space in nature. We have – like the tide – an eternal force: waves, stretchers, on which we can also exploit and research. It doesn't take much space either. So here's also the question: Who's going to use nature? Then we come to the seventh and last, as I see it, to the most important and greatest law of nature – and that is that nature is the greatest. If we're going to put windmills at sea, I'm afraid it's going to cost more than it tastes. Then we're into another law, an economic law, and it's going to cost us too much.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1833	Johnny Ingebrichtsen from Finnmark was concerned with some of the things that it's important to take into account in a discussion about how we make sure that the mapping is good enough. The experience of the United Kingdom in facilitating the large-scale offshore wind deployment they have is that when planning and expanding offshore wind systems began, conflicts were discovered in a number of areas. Therefore, it is obvious that it is important to have a comprehensive monitoring to ensure that offshore wind is started. I take the floor because I want to praise the interpellant, who addresses the question of how we can look forward to, see the needs that exist, namely the needs for access to more renewable energy. I am – unlike Per Rune Henriksen, who took this up in his post – less concerned about power surplus, but more concerned about, as many people have been about, putting the power we create into use to replace the fossil. Now we're going to discuss a matter immediately afterwards where, in my opinion, the minister has just shown a reluctance to do just that, but it's a total collapse that is behind starting and replacing fossil use of force with renewable use of force. We need to replace fossil energy only in Norway, because most of the power we use in Norway today is fossil produced. Before we get to the zero-emission society that we know it's necessary to get there, we're going to have the opportunity to participate in developing Norwegian industry – or we can miss that opportunity for us. My opinion, which I share with the interpellant and several of the others sitting in the hall, is that we should use the opportunity to develop a new industry in Norway. Then I would like to underline what Tord Lien said. He said that the green certificates can of course be used for offshore wind – and they can, of course, because they are technology neutral. The problem is that if you're going to develop technology, it costs more in the beginning. It will always be that new technology costs more. What we have in Norway today is a system that – just as Tord Lien said – gets the most power for least money. But that's not what we need if we're to develop a new industry. When the solar photovoltaic industry was developed and we saw that the price of solar cells and wind turbines fell, there is no market that has solved itself. There is something that has come because others chose to be brave and made sure to subsidize that technology, so that one got those learning curves that made the price go down for everyone. Today, solar cells are competitive with fossil power for the majority of the world's inhabitants. So the question is, are we going to use the opportunity we have through the offshore cluster we have in Norway, through the expertise we have in power management, to develop a new industry? I would encourage Tord Lien to respond more positively to it. I mean yes, and I don't think we should wait. Because if we wait, the opportunity to be first outside misses. Let me give you some examples. Several have indicated that in Japan it is quite obvious that they will gradually phase out both nuclear power and the fossil power they have, they are dependent on windmills, and they will be largely liquid offshore. Today, Norway is at the forefront in the field of offshore liquids. We won't be if we wait ten years to build a domestic market. Then the chance is missed for us. Many here in the Chamber remember the debates we've had where they mention that GSM had us first in Norway, but we didn't put it into use and let a lot of the industrial potential go to other countries. We shouldn't do the same with our offshore bet. My challenge to Tord Lien is this: One of the things we know we need to have in place to secure offshore positioning is a network of offshore cables. Is Tord Lien willing to go ahead and say that regulatory changes are needed, the organisation of a network at sea, for example. by Statnett taking greater responsibility at sea, or by others building up that type of network structure? Tord Lien is willing to do so, for example. to instruct future oil installations to deploy power, inter alia: extracted from sea wind?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1852	The President is absolutely sure that it is the councillor Tord Lien who gets all these challenges from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1855	This issue is about a potentially large instrument in Norwegian climate policy, and it is about what signals Stortinget and the government send to the Norwegian people, to Norwegian industry and to the Norwegian research environment on climate policy investments. I remember what I started with, by quoting the state councils Trond Giske and Terje Riis-Johansen. Terje Riis-Johansen said three and a half years ago that Norway will be world leader in offshore wind. And what was Minister of Industry Giske from the Workers' Party saying? "Norway is going to be on the next big industrial adventure at sea." So it's quite different tones we hear in the hall today. The question in the interpellation is: What strategy does the Council of State have for further investment – because it was a bet we got presented in 2010 – in sea wind in Norway? At that, the Council of State roughly answers no one. There should be a continuation of existing instruments, otherwise nothing else – as we know today. And not only that – the representative Per Rune Henriksen of the Workers' Party is fully in agreement with the oil and energy minister from the Progress Party and makes it almost categorical that for various reasons we should not have any investment in sea wind here in Norway. And the representative Astrup from the Right is very pleased to say that saving the world as it is is expensive enough, if we're not going to do the same with sea winds. But we had a sea wind bet in Norway, and we've spent 735 million. on research and incentives. The question I asked was simply: how are we going to proceed with this? The answer so far is not particularly encouraging, but we do not allow ourselves to be ‘depressed’ too much, of course, because now the issue has been raised, and I would encourage the parties and the representatives who have been involved in both a climate settlement and the adoption of climate announcements, who are just signaling a completely different willingness to offensive bet on the development of technology – which is, of course, animals now, which obviously work badly now, which is obviously not commercial now, but which must be done by putting it into practice – to come back to the commitment and commitment that we saw a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1864	I think I have to try to say a little about what reality is like in Norway and abroad — the big foreign country. A lot of the representatives have been involved. Many of the countries around us have a challenging power situation and an energy mix that is largely based on fossil energy sources and at least on non-renewable sources, primarily nuclear power. We have a totally opposite situation in Scandinavia, where we have an increasing – sometimes increasing – power surplus and an energy mix that, for Norway, is renewable and for Scandinavia, fossil-free. I agree with the many – among others: The representative Arnstad – who says that we have spent hundreds of millions, even billions, on land-based wind – and we see that the concessions unfortunately remain: there will be no power of concessions, there will be power of windmills. My starting point is that it costs approx. one third to produce 1 KWh wind power based on land-based wind compared to sea wind. Still, we see that it's not being built out. Ola Elvestuen said we should use the competence, and I fully agree with that. We've spent a lot of money on it. We're using the expertise today. Norwegian operators are both owners, operators and suppliers, not least to marine wind turbines in the rest of the world, especially in the United Kingdom. That's good. So I just have to say again that there's been a broad consensus about what's going to move things into the market. They're green certificates. I have also experienced that there has been a broad consensus that, in addition to that, we need to invest in universities, research institutes and industry, using state funds for research, development and demonstration. So let's do that. Together with universities and industry, we are helping government and Storting to develop new technologies and to demonstrate and pilot new technologies. That is, of course, good, and it will be an important part of the development of renewable energy production in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1875	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1889	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Advance Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the Council of State shall be given 10 minutes' speaking time. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1900	I must admit that I have been looking forward to this debate on a force from land-solution to the height of Utsira. First of all, let me take this opportunity to thank the Committee for its good cooperation and, not least, for its willingness to reach a common agreement. The Committee's agreement, through both comments and decisions, provides us with a robust case and clarity in the future. Going back a short time, one would think that exactly that was impossible, but it turns out that it was possible. I am very pleased and thank the committee for that. This is one of the greatest industrial projects of our time. It's going to be invested up to 120 billion. kr. I've heard numbers saying that values should be created for an estimated 2,000 billion. kr. The time horizon we're talking about is at least 50 years, and that's reason to assume it can be longer. It's about Future Norway, about today's and tomorrow's opportunities and constraints. The dimensions of the issue are about the climate challenges and our obligations on the one hand, and jobs and opportunities for value creation on the other. Without electrification of the Utsira height, which is now set as a condition by the Storting, objectives set in the Storting through the climate agreement on greenhouse gas emission reductions could not be achieved – yes, they would have been completely impossible to achieve, I think. It's primarily about cutting emissions where we can. It's about replacing fossil energy with renewable energy where we can. The zira height is an area where this can be done with simplicity. On the other hand, jobs, opportunities for growth, positions for oil companies, and not least – and perhaps the most important thing right now – are about important tasks for the supply industry in Norway. I would like to stress that the Storting normally does not lay the limits for petroleum extraction in this way. This is done in the context of the ordinary treatment of the Stortinget by the general arrangements of the petroleum policy and by decisions relating to the development of the Stortinget. So it's a little unusual that the Stortinget, through a Document 8 proposal, makes as clear demands as one is now making refurbishments on individual areas on a Norwegian base. Through the committee review, we stress that this does not mean that Stortinget is changing the practice of other developments on the Norwegian base, nor for the rest of the process related to the development of the Johan Sverdrup field. Having said that, I would like to stress that it was absolutely necessary to go into Document 8 in the way that the Committee has done. Until 16 May, it was very unclear how this case was to be addressed by an overall political Norway. There was much discussion, the immortality was great, and the veil of uncertainty spread over a big and important matter. We experienced frustration about the lack of information, there was a gap in cost analyses and reports that were made for action costs, and it was also difficult to obtain sufficient information against the Storting in relation to the uncertainty that lay there. Then it was relatively clear that the oil and energy minister, at least as I signed it, really argued against an area solution, while a clear opposition, which constituted a broad majority, was in favour of an area solution. It's now settled, so we don't really have to discuss history, but with what's behind it, it would really be irresponsible not to clarify important terms for such a big project. It was correct and correct that the Storting now sets conditions in this case. It's also that it can't come as a surprise to anyone that a majority in Stortinget, and now a total increase, sets conditions. It has been there in connection with the expansion of the Utsira height all the time. Not least, it is confirmed by the climate agreement and by the notification of petroleum that a desired area solution, where technically possible and where feasible, is feasible. The zira height is a good answer to that. It has been important in committee to avoid a postponement of the first stage of construction for Johan Sverdrup, while at the same time it has been very important for the Committee to realise a coordinated force from land-solution covering all the fields in the area, as quickly as possible. We are now clarifying the framework conditions, and we are creating predictability for the further processing. The requirements currently set by this setting are quite clear. The power requirements of the whole area shall be covered by shore-side power. An area solution shall be established as soon as possible and no later than 2022. Nor shall the start of production be authorised for construction stage 2 on the Johan Sverdrup field or new satellites not mentioned in the landfill proposal for the first stage of construction in the Johan Sverdrup field, without the area release for power from land being put into operation. The cable connection, which has been widely debated, shall be established as early as possible and a technical assessment by the Oil Directorate on the speed with which the cable connections between the fields can be put in place shall be drawn up. In addition, we have made it very clear that the land site to be built to supply the Utsira height with power from land is to be implemented in the first stage of construction. These are concrete, good and important conditions, which are now being clarified around a large and important development project. These are important clarifications that we're now doing. All batches have expressed their satisfaction. The oil and energy minister, I think, should acknowledge the gratitude for important clarifications. The environmental movement says this is good, Statoil appears to be pleased, and the supplier industry is now looking forward to a tendering process for one of the largest industrial projects of our time. So in sum, this must be absolutely brilliant. So a little bit until the continuation and a little bit about predictability. The start time of the first step development for Johan Sverdrup has been important. Yes, I stress that time and budget deliveries are important. In the light of other cases and developments, there may also be reason in this case to recall that this is not only about the time of the start, but about the time of completion and the overall cost images of the development of the Norwegian base. It is very important for the Storting that what is on the ground is actually followed. So I think there's another additional dimension that it might also be nice to mention when we've now clarified the clear conditions in relation to the Utsira height. It is the relationship with the uncertainty inherent in the competitive situation of the supplier industry towards the contracts to be concluded out of the tendering process. I think it is absolutely necessary that we think carefully, all of us as one, how to establish a better, more important and more accurate predictability for the Norwegian supplier industry. It is perhaps Norway’s most important cluster of competences in the future. It is then absolutely necessary that sufficient predictability be created. Unfortunately, there is the Storting in such a position that we cannot be as clear as we are on the predictability of the oil and gas companies. But when we are clear to the oil and gas companies, we must expect them to listen to what Stortinget actually believes about the predictability of the Norwegian supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1926	First, let me thank the case rapporteur, Terje Aasland, and the other parties in the committee for achieving a unanimous committee decision. The government parties are pleased that the opposition meets us and contributes to the fact that the Stortinget today does not take decisions that could lead to Johan Sverdrup's first construction step being postponed. This construction stage has an investment framework of between 100 and 120 billion. This is the largest industrial project in Norway in the modern era. Very many coastal jobs depend on winning contracts for this project in the years to come. An overall industry and trade movement expressed great concern at the consensus expressed by the opposition in the hiking hall in Stortinget on 16 May. The opposition was in the process of putting political risk on account of the predictability, accountability and long-termity of the government in the petroleum sector over the last 40 years, which has served Norway and the community in a very good way. I am pleased that the alarm messages from, among other things, the trade union movement reached the end of the Workers' Party and the rapporteur contributed to the proper landing of this case. It was an affordable turnaround. Perhaps someone has learned that when we deal with important issues for the community and Norway, we should deal with them first in the committee and hold a press conference afterwards. Let me stress that the government has always been aiming to achieve an area electrification of the Aussira Height in line with the climate agreement. However, we have thought that the right time to decide on area electricalisation would be in the landfill proposal for the development of Johan Sverdrup's first construction step, which will be considered in the spring of 2015. Then we know far more about costs, power requirements and technical solutions than we do by deciding on area electricalisation in an arbitrary private proposal by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. However, when the opposition decided to advance the management of the plans for the development and operation of Johan Sverdrup, it fell on the government parties to help eliminate the uncertainty associated with Johan Sverdrup’s first construction step. I believe it is essential that the Storting does not make it a habit to change the essential conditions for the petroleum industry through the treatment of Document 8 proposals in the Stortinget. The height of outsira is an exceptional case, and an overall committee underlines in its recommendation that all other Norwegian-socket extensions should be treated in an ordinary manner. It's a very important clarification. In today’s decision, the Storting will define that an area solution with force from land should be in place as quickly as possible, but no later than the end of 2022. It gives the rightholders at the Utsira Height time to find good technical solutions that enable an area solution to be realized in an appropriate and cost-effective way. 2022 conforms to Statoil's own construction plan at Johan Sverdrup, which makes it possible to build the necessary technical infrastructure at sea in connection with new installations at construction stage 2. At the same time, the Committee stresses that all installations built on land in connection with construction stage 1 shall contribute to the realisation of an area solution forcefully from land to all fields of the Utzira Height by the end of 2022. So what's the climate effect of what the Greatness now decides? It depends on what time perspective we use. The climate agreement's objectives will extend to 2020. Since Johan Sverdrup’s first stage of construction is due to start production in late 2019 and the emissions from the three other fields, Gina Krog, Edvard Grieg and Ivar Aasen, are relatively small in the period before 2020, the timing of area electrification has limited impact on Norway’s ability to achieve climate targets by 2020. Norway’s emissions from the petroleum sector are also subject to the EU ETS and thus emissions from Gina Krog, Ivar Aasen and Edvard Grieg in the period from 2020 to 2022 will not lead to increased emissions in Europe if the EU now agrees to continue the EU ETS from 2020 to 2030 with the EU Commission’s proposed reductions. In a longer time perspective, the situation is quite different. It is not compatible with Norway's goal of becoming a low-carbon society by 2050 that we are building new, large emission sources that will emit tens of millions of tonnes of CO2 over the next 50, 60, 70 years. We also know little about how the carbon price evolves. If the EU is to achieve the target of reducing emissions in Europe by 80-95 pst. However, by 2050, we can assume that the carbon price will increase and that large point emissions will have to be cleaned, phased out or replaced by environmentally friendly alternatives over time. Today’s decision is therefore a long-term investment in the low-carbon society of the future. The world is still going to need oil and gas for decades to come, even within a 2-degree scenario. Norway has the highest carbon prices and the most stringent environmental requirements for oil production in the world. It makes us very happy to be a supplier of oil and gas also in a market where carbon prices rise and emission requirements tighten. The world is not going to stop asking for oil and gas because countries like Norway are not producing. There are enough hydrocarbons to cover Norway’s production. Demand for fossil energy will only decline if we succeed in developing competitive alternatives in transport, industry and power. The petroleum sector gives us financial muscles to contribute to this green shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1955	Today, the Storting deals with a Document 8 proposal from SV's representatives Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and Audun Lysbakken on electrification of Aussirhögda. It is rare for one to see that a proposal for a representative gets that attention and has the meaning of what we are debating today. The proposal briefly states that the oil companies at Utzirahgda are required to go for a common force from land-solution to Johan Sverdrup and to Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog from day one. In this way, the proposers want to fully electrify the so-called Height of So-called Height of Petroleum. The background is the large emissions of greenhouse gases from the petroleum activity on the socket. This has been troubling more over time, and therefore the industry is charging around 450 kroner per tonne of emissions, in order to have an incentive to reduce emissions. Therefore, it is important to stress that the government has always aimed to electrify the large find, Johan Sverdrup, which would have resulted in reduced area emissions of about 70 pst. within a cost level that would be acceptable to most. It should also be emphasised that the Stortinget has never before entered into such an early stage of development and laid down detailed requirements for its expansion, except for the general requirements of the Storing Message with the good name An industry for the future. Despite the fact that the previous government with SV co-sponsors has recently laid the framework for this important industry with just this message, choose a now to submit proposals that for the fifth time in a relatively short time change the framework conditions and create uncertainty and remove the preoccupation that one should expect for the country's most important industry. It's very unfortunate, especially when the expansion itself is so significant and seen so many jobs in games. It is the largest industrial investment on a Norwegian base in a long time, and significant resources have been used by the project promoters on the design page. A lot of fear that these hundreds of millions were throwing away, and that one had to start up again. Fortunately, we avoided this by providing the framework for the development of the entire height of the Aussir. I am glad, especially in the light of the many contacts from trade unionists and others that we experienced at the time this happened. The Progress Party is also pleased that a Joint Committee underlines that this does not mean that Stortinget is changing the practice of other Norwegian-socket extensions. With the exception of the questions mentioned here, further consideration of plans for the development and operation of Johan Sverdrup will be carried out in accordance with the ordinary procedure. Nor is it a secret that the conciliation as a joint committee is behind today, not the primary policy of the Progress Party. But to avoid a postponement that put thousands of jobs in the yard industry at risk and produces a now-value loss of 20 billion. kr, we have accepted an area resolution that will allow the entire area's power requirements to be met by force from land. In the context of the preparation of the conditions in the plan for the development and operation of the Johan Sverdrup field, it is required that cable connections between the different installations at Aussirahögda be established in Johan Sverdrup's start-up step 2. Also land-based power-generating installations that enable the entire area to be supplied forcefully from land are already being implemented in connection with the first construction step of Johan Sverdrup, to show that a person wants to show the obligations. Otherwise, the Committee asks for other important solutions and requirements to be clarified in the PUD which will be discussed here in the spring of 2015. In this context, the power requirements of the entire area are required to be met by force from land as quickly as possible and to be delayed by 2022. But in sum, a deal that's to live with when the input factor is a huge find that will provide high incomes and incentives for good jobs and economics for many decades to come. The climate effect, on the other hand, will be positive for Norway, but it must be allowed to question the dietary benefit and whether this would have a greater impact elsewhere, perhaps in Europe, which would have reduced global emissions, and that would well be the target. Reducing global emissions is, of course, most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e1978	This is an extraordinary treatment, and it's an extraordinary matter. It is an important industrial project, but it is also an important environmental project that we are now ending up with. I thought I'd say a little bit about the story. In this room, three PUDs have already been processed for three of the platforms that have been or are to be developed at the Utsira height. In each expansion and operation plan, conditions are laid down for them to be connected to shore-side power, and it comes. There's even been adjustments made with hundreds of millions of dollars for that to happen. In the plan for the expansion and operation of Edvard Grieg, the operator found the price per tonne of CO2, i.e. the cost of action, for power from land to the entire field Edvard Grieg, Gina Krog, then Dagny, and Ivar Aasen, then Draupne, to be about NOK 700. It's interesting when you look back, that it was NOK 700. By comparison, the operator of Johan Sverdrup and the entire height of Utsira calculated it at a point between 975 and 2300 kroner. Had it been done then, just for the three fields, it would have cost 700 kroner. There have been great expectations that power from land will come to all fields. It has been mentioned in the climate agreement and also in other statements. I would also like to ask questions about the follow-up from the previous government regarding where we stand today. I, the undersigned – plus others – asked more questions after Edvard Grieg's treatment, and also after Gina Krog, in this room, precisely because we saw signs that the projects, with a common project to ensure the development of power from land to the entire height of Utsira, did not go as it should. Therefore, I would also like to say, at the beginning of the handling of the matter, that when the current government took over the matter and got a broken project in its hands, it is clear that it also created challenges. But for the Christian People's Party it was also absurd to wait for over a year before the plan for the expansion and operation of Johan Sverdrup would come into this hall, and so few told that it was impossible to make changes. It's an administrative absurd thing. That means that here we are today, it's too late to make changes, because it will lead to delays. That's why I'm glad that we've got an overall decision that says 'as quickly as possible', and I'm using those words, because I notice that the previous speakers focus on 'by 2022'. But we've said, "As fast as possible." I am also pleased that the Stortinget wants the Directorate of Oil to assess when ‘as quickly as possible’ is. That is why I also associate expectations with the OD's treatment and professional assessment, because I believe that it is not Statoil's opinion and assessment that is the fasitist alone. It's not that I don't trust Statoil, but I recognize that Statoil has other interests in some things than what I as a politician, and what we as a popular assembly have, and that means that interests must be balanced against each other. And when it's like that, it's Statoil that's really a fascination with something like this, it means that as elected representatives, we can't do anything else. That is why I am pleased that the Stortinget now says that we should have the Oil Directorate's professional assessment of whether this is possible. It's also the only correction we have as politicians to see if it's actually possible to build up full electrification from the start, without that leading to postponement. Because it is precisely what the supplier claims, it is precisely the independent expert claims, that this is actually fully feasible from 2019 onwards. And I actually have great faith in Statoil's ability and ability to solve technical challenges. They've solved a lot before, and they're going to solve a lot in the future, so I think it might be possible. That's why I have expectations that the OD's assessment when it comes is thorough and good, and can also show that it's actually possible to get to this earlier. Because if not, there will be large emissions every year that we could have been cleaned already in 2019. When I just look at the average of the PUDs on emissions for each of the three platforms already authorised, it is approx. 400000 tonnes — which therefore have to be cut in other sectors. It goes beyond the transport sector, and it goes beyond industry – because we are going to achieve the 2020 targets. Then it is also a logical flaw that Ivar Aasen, Edvard Grieg and Gina Krog are being expanded with a plug-in on each platform to hundreds of millions, while it is not done on Johan Sverdrup. So it has to be solved in another way in the next phase. The logic and the perfectly obvious and best social and environmental investment would be to do everything at once. And I hope that we can still do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2005	It is very positive that a total collapse will now clearly and unambiguously fall into the form of decisions to electrify the fields at the Utsira height. It is both an important environmental project and an important industrial project. Now, maybe the three previous speeches show that the premises of the different parties that are going to vote for this may be slightly different, and that the expectations may also be slightly different, but I would like to stress the importance of a total increase making decisions on this matter. Because that means no one can be in doubt anymore. That means that all the uncertainties are cleared of the road. That means there's nothing more about and though. It must be planned, it must be planned, it must be agreed upon and it must be implemented. In my opinion, this gives predictability, both for the licensees, for the department, for the government and for the political environment. So it's actually a pretty long race that's brought to some sort of end by political decision, and I think we should have it with us. This issue has been addressed a number of times, and there have always been different reasons why one has not been able to go further and implement it. For the first time, it was added because one assumed that the oil business would be significantly reduced after the year 2000 and that, therefore, it was not relevant and interesting to implement it. The second time it was investigated, it was added because one assumed that Norway would face a large power loss and that electrification had to be based on imported coal power. And the third time it was added because one assumed that a high quota price would drive the power price so up that it would be unprofitable to implement it. All of these assumptions have proved to be crazy. That's why I think it's important that a now political one has actually decided and makes the decisions that are necessary. That also means that one can no longer find any detours, in my opinion. One can't say that, no, we finally figured out that the concept can't be implemented that way. No one can now say that there was something about and if and now, in fact, all the actors have to deal with that Stortinget has made a decision. Then there's been a lot of discussions, both about how it can be done, and at what time. We have to admit that. What is here today is a compromise between all the parties on the Stortinget. There are two key points that I think are a little bit important. One is that I respect the fact that the Storting should not go in and decide on the technical solutions with which to implement it. I believe that the Storting does not have the prerequisites to do so. Some of the debate has probably been in it. I also respect the fact that Stortinget will provide a solution that does not contribute to delays that could affect the supplier industry. However, I also believe that the compromise we are adopting today takes account of the two considerations. We've made the adjustments that are necessary to do that. But it doesn't deteriorate and it doesn't make the clear marshalling earth that is being cross-politically given here today. It is important that the government also learns that it has to deal with the Storting and also before plans for development and operation be willing to take part in the decisions that a majority in the Stortinget believes need to be taken. I am very surprised that the representative Astrup here actually believes that we should have waited until the plan for expansion and operation was submitted. It's a very formalistic argument. Everyone knows that when the plan of expansion and operation is presented to the Stortinget, there is very little freedom of action left for the Stortinget to influence both the period of time and the arrangement of what is submitted by the government based on the recommendations of the companies. So that means if you were to give a signal, you had to give that signal now. I expect that the government will deal with it with the greatest seriousness and also give clear signals to the companies about how they will deal with this issue. The representative Grimstad was concerned about the framework conditions, and it is good to remind him that he and the Progress Party will vote in favour of a framework condition today. I want to reassure the Progress Party. I believe that the actors will have the opportunity to deal with this in a good way. I think that, through the decision that is being made today, we have actually created security and cleared the way of some doubt, and that we also have every reason to expect that the assumptions that lie there will now be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2022	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur and also all the parties involved in the work of the Committee on how this agreement on the height of Utzira has been reached. For those who have followed the discussions in Stortinget throughout the winter, and also the conflicts that have been there, it has not been clear that we should reach such a broad consensus at the end of the day. Although it is true that it is very unusual to make this type of decision through a Document 8 proposal, at least we from the Left are not in any doubt that in this case it was absolutely necessary and absolutely right to make a clear decision now. Although the government has had the aim – as the representative Nikolai Astrup says – to have an area solution, at least I am not in doubt, on the basis of the signals given by the government, that it was necessary now to make a decision. It's only from May 16 that this has become a discussion – not if we're going to have an area electricization, but a discussion about when we're going to get it in place. Now there is no longer a discussion about price and action costs, but it is about how this can be done, and how it can be done as early and cost-effectively as possible. On the left, we also underline the clarity of the decision. I use both parts – that it is as fast as possible, but also absolutely no later than 2022. We also very much look forward to the investigation that the Oil Directorate is going to do in order to look at the possibility of connecting the different fields earlier than 2022. There are many discussions. One thing is costs. How can you get started? Will this lead to deferrals? I'm sure this is a decision that stands by. This will be implemented. Then there is also a discussion about the climate effect. Then it is reassuring to see the statements in Technical Weekly, which have been subjected to just all the discussions and also the climate effect of electrifying the height of Outsira. Then there is no doubt that electrifying there is an advantage. The extra gas can be used either in a more efficient gas power plant in Europe or in different households in Europe, where it can replace coal, instead of power from Norway, which is likely to be renewable, and which in the worst case will be the result of a Nordic electricity mix. The quota system to which it is often referred is that if you cut one place within the quota system, it will only lead to an increase elsewhere. But this situation is not real. There are twice as many allowances as there are emissions. Then it is that the emissions within the allowance system are also real emissions, without resulting in any change or increase elsewhere. Based on the studies in Technical Weekly, what we are adopting today, once implemented, will provide a real emission cut of 1.5 million tonnes per year, not only in Norway, but also in a European perspective. It is absolutely something I believe that Stortinget can be proud that we are now implementing. If we are to achieve our climate objectives – and this is not just about 2020, the impact will be later – we need to implement many tough decisions. This is one of the tough decisions that Stortinget is now implementing. Then it's good that there's a total mass, with all the batches, which are behind a clear decision, and at a time that's right to achieve the results and make sure that we get an area solution with electrification of the Utsira height.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2041	I will accuse Tord Lien of misleading the Storting in the Utsira case and not follow-up decisions. On 12 February, Tine Sundtoft stood and spoke about Utsira here on the Stockholm pulpit. It was oral question time. April 2nd, Tord Lien stood here. What he said there was simply not true. On both occasions, state councils expressed that the government is working with a force from land-solution to Utsira and expects companies to do the same. But the companies had already told the government that they didn't. At the end of December, the companies reported to the government that with the calculations they had made by expanding a so-called hub, a hub that would provide electricity for the whole Utzira field, the calculations from the calculations they had made would show a negative present value result. Pure commercial considerations would therefore mean that you did not want to expand, if you put commercial considerations on the ground. On January 23rd, Tord Lien then sent out a press release saying: «Based on the framework conditions laid down, companies must establish, on a commercial basis, inter alia, a development solution, including an assessment of the best for each development.» What Tord Lien then says is that companies should have the opportunity to base the commercial considerations, instead of laying the climate leaders on which the Storting has based. He warns that he will not impose anything they themselves do not find commercially. In such a setting it is completely incomprehensible that he can stand on the pulpit of the Storting, that representatives of the government can stand on the pulpit of the Stortinge, and say that they expect the companies to work for a force from land-solution, because it had already been notified to the companies that they did not. The second is that the Storting has set the goal of reducing climate emissions in Norway. We have said very clearly that we wanted to set it as an objective to achieve an area solution for the whole of Utsira, because – as the Environment Directorate said in its report – this is crucial for achieving our climate objectives by 2020. To this end, Tord Lien has always insisted that the main means of generating electrification are the high cost of emissions. The problem is that Tord Lien behaves as if it is not just the main instrument, but the only instrument that the government intends to use to achieve electrification. Tord Lien, with the decisions taken in connection with the PUDs – the plan for expansion and operation – that were made in the previous magnification, had all manner of back coverage to impose, being clear in the dialogues with the companies from the very beginning that they could expect to be required to electrify the entire height of Utsira. I would like to stress that those words have never taken Tord Lien in their mouths. He has never said that he intends to impose an area solution on the different companies. He has never said that, and he has from everything we have asked about Stortinget, nor has he ever worked for it. In this way, I believe that he has blamed himself for the sin of not following a big decision, but instead point out that he believed that he did not have the tools that were needed. We must not forget what this matter is about. That is to stop the dangerous climate change, we must implement a climate change, as the government itself has called it, where all countries contribute, and there in particular countries like Norway, which have the ability to cut and which pollute most per capita in the world, have to cut, and where all industries and industries are involved in doing the job. In Norway, we have one industry that refuses to participate in that climate change threat, and that is the oil industry. Since 1990, the oil industry has continuously increased its emissions and is now more than 6 million tonnes above their 1990 level of emissions. So this is the fraction of the cuts we have to make in order to be in place with the climate agreement by 2020, which the Stortinget has decided. I would like to stress in the same breath that the rest of the industry, the mainland industry, has done their job of reducing their emissions and has managed to contribute to that climate resilience. That's when Councillor Tord Lien has to decide. Is he the man of Storting to govern the framework of the oil industry, or is he the oil industry's runner-up to Stortinget? I just want to say that the country can't last. We in SV proposed an area solution from the first day, in other words in 2019, the first day in Johan Sverdrup's lifetime, because we had no choice – not as Nikolai Astrup claims, as a random proposal, but because we had no choice if we were to aim to impose the oil industry at the earliest enough that they would have to make the necessary changes. We did, and the process has shown that it was completely right. I am very pleased that today we are gathered on decisions that ensure that we are properly demanding the oil industry to contribute to climate change. I am also pleased that the government parties would be involved, but at the same time I would like to stress that the oil and energy minister and the government parties have subsequently achieved some success in selling in their interpretation that the Storting has only adopted what the government has always intended. Anyone who has experienced the Right Party government in the close quarters of the Utzira case in the last year knows that it is not right at all. Tord Lien has believed that if the CO2 costs on the socket do not trigger the use of climate technology, it is not his job to interfere. His party colleague, Oskar J. Grimstad, from the Progress Party even stated to the NRK that it was unreasonable to impose large cuts on the oil industry, and suggested instead that it would be right to allow the drivers and the mainland industry to take additional cuts in order to achieve Norway's climate goals. Today, however, we have the Stortinget with us to impose climate requirements on the oil industry. The good news – which has been received by several speakers, including Case rapporteur Terje Aasland, who has lost this in port – is that the Johan Sverdrup field will be operated with zero-emission power from land throughout the 50-year life of the field. In addition, we get rid of three highly polluting gas plants on the other oil fields at Utsira by 2022. The bad news is that we did not get the Stortinget to implement the cuts earlier, already in 2019. There are always excuses for not using technology. The intervention of the big business, which we are adopting today in Tord Lien's passive climate policy, is important. However, the cuts may be too late to meet Norway’s 2020 climate targets. I believe that those parties that were not willing to make the demands as early as 1 January 2019 bear the responsibility for that. It would have been interesting – since we have Minister for Climate and Environment Tine Sundtoft in the Chamber – to hear where she sees that we will be able to take the cuts if we do not get in place to cut off the entire area solution in the Utsira field from the first day. This day is historic, because even if we don't get this from the first day in 2019, this is a day from which we say clearly. Through a representative proposal in Stortinget, we have made sure that the oil industry does not get what they want when the world's climate is at stake. Finally, I just want to say one thing about the follow-up. Here I expect a message from Tord Lien – in his post – about how he intends to follow up on the one point that the representative of the Christian People's Party in particular was inside. That is the point where we say that the Committee on Energy and the Environment asks that the Directorate-General for Oil should provide a technical assessment of the speed with which a cable link between all the fields of Utsira should be established and whether it is possible from the start of production. I would also like to stress that it is extremely important that the Minister of Oil and Energy is clear in his communication with the Oil Directorate and the oil companies, and that the Directorate of Oil must have the opportunity to gather all the necessary competences – including external competence – to make those assessments. I would like to stress the importance of Tord Lien saying to the oil companies that the decisions we are making today mean as soon as possible and no later than 2022. That doesn't mean 2022. It means as soon as possible and no later than 2022. And we say as soon as possible about the cable connections between the installations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2098	The Green Party, of course, joins the cheerleader that we have reached an agreement throughout the Great Britain on the electrification of Utsira, and we are impressed and grateful for the good work behind this decision. We are pleased that with this we have ensured that the energy demand for the entire Utsira height should be met with force by 2022 and as soon as possible, as several representatives have pointed out. Of course, we are not least pleased that Stortinget has with this taken back the governance – at least part of the governance – of Norwegian climate policy. We in the Green Party see this as a promising settlement, or at least a sign of willingness to settle, with the rather serbious attitude that both the red-green government, their predecessors and a large number of people who have supported them have led to the petroleum industry for a very long time. We have a different approach to the issue of Utsira and electrification than the other parties have. We are opposed to putting Johan Sverdrup and the Utsira Height into operation at all, and we are struggling as far as the environmental party to enjoy a find that will lead to huge new greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian Socket, or caused by Norwegian Socket, for a very long time. Electrification of the Utsira Height is only the second best solution for the management of these oil fields by Norway. What Norway needs to do is take active action to reduce activity on Norwegian soil — not leave it to a world market and to factors that we do not have control over and where we do not know the outcome of long-term development. Leaving resources at the Utsira altitude would mean not adding greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere equivalent to perhaps 50 times more than the emission reduction achieved by electrifying the area. Then one representative after another points out that 'if I don't do it, someone else will'. But it's, as everyone knows, wrong. Firstly, the physical quantity of oil and the physical amount of carbon present at the Utsira height is an amount that is in addition to other emissions into the atmosphere from other sources. Secondly, as everyone knows, it is not that other countries do not see what Norway is doing. As long as Norway has as a policy to release everything we can from our resources, we cannot reasonably wait for other countries to do the same. We cannot argue that there will be an international climate agreement that will solve the problem. We cannot argue that there will be an international price of CO2 that will solve the problem, and we cannot argue that the EU quota market will solve the problem – because all possible cynical and technical odds suggest that it will not happen. We have to take responsibility for ourselves at some point. One of the responsibilities is to start deciding how much of our own resources we're going to produce. Of course, in the debate on electrification, the Greens wanted electrification from day one. This is what we have wanted for two reasons, partly because an electrification which is, in the worst case, postponed to 2022 will make Norway's ability to deliver on our climate promises in relation to emissions cuts in 2020 even more difficult than they already are. The second is, of course, the experience from Mongstad. It is necessary that Stortinget takes control and does not leave to the actors to crawl out of the dirtholes that will come. Therefore, in addition to avoiding some emissions, this decision makes it best to ensure that the Storting has now taken control. I hope that the emphasis on this is not an exceptional case is that there should be an exceptional case in relation to the management of the climate policy related to oil business, but that there is an exceptional case in which the Storting will never be able to interfere for as long as oil field planning is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2117	The last remark from the representative Hansson gave a different interpretation than I had to the point in the position, but we get to hear what the other staging representatives might have to think about it. In any case, during the last decade, the height of the outer silhouette has evolved into one of the most interesting areas of Norwegian soil. The development of the three fields Edvard Grieg, Ivar Aasen and Gina Krog is already under way, while the rightholders of the gigantic Johan Sverdrup find plan to submit plans for deployment and operation for the first stage of construction in early 2015. Johan Sverdrup will be among the largest oilfields on Norwegian soil when it comes to production. Not since the 1980s has a discovery of such great resources been developed. Operators estimate that there are extractable resources of between 1.8 and 2.9 billion barrels of oil equivalent in the field, which alone will hold about 25 pst. oil production on Norwegian soil reaches plateau production. The field is expected to start production late in 2019 and has a life expectancy of 50 years. The Sverdrup field is planned, with which the Committee and the Stortinget will be familiar, developed in several stages. In the first stage of construction alone, costs are estimated at a point between 100 and 120 billion. kr. The activity related to Sverdrup and other fields at and at the height of Utsira will produce very large and important employment and value creation effects for many decades to come. The output of these fields, with Sverdrup as the clearest contributor, will generate significant revenues for the Norwegian community. I want to say that the enormous values this expansion represents for the Norwegian community have been overshadowed by the debate on power solutions for the Utsira Height. That's why I found reason to say a little bit about it. The question of power supply for fields at the Utsira height has been addressed in several rounds in recent years, and several hundred million dollars have been spent on these works. It has always been the rightholders' plan that the gigantic Sverdrup field should be supplied with power from land. In addition, the Government has aimed to provide the remaining minor field expansions at southern parts of the Utzira Height with shore-side power. I think we have had a good debate, but I think perhaps that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås goes a little far. Firstly, Johan Sverdrup is electrified regardless of today's decision. It represents most of the power demand at the Utsira height. That representative Eidsvoll Holmås and I have discussed from Stortinget's pulpit is a demand that the three smaller fields should also have power from land from the moment Johan Sverdrup starts up. There is now a position the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is going to vote for in today's voting. But it was not only international investors, but also the supplier industry and the trade movement that expressed great concern about what was presented on 16 May this year. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the trade union movement for the strong and clear commitment in this matter. I think that commitment has been a vital contribution to the fact that this case got the solution it got. I am pleased that a good solution has been found – and like many others, I will also give tribute to the case rapporteur, from the opposition – that one has met and found a solution that ensures that the first construction steps of the Sverdrup project continue as planned. This will give large – long-term – opportunities for a supplier industry under pressure. It is essential that the first stage of construction of this large industrial project continues as planned, so that suppliers can compete for large contracts in 2015. Second stages of construction could start as early as three years after the first stage of construction has come into production. Of course, I would like to mention the other construction steps in the proposition Stortinget will be presented next year. I would also like to come back to the issues raised by the Committee in connection with the establishment of an area solution. Predictable frameworks and clear division of labour are crucial for good resource management, high value creation and high government income on the base. The broad political agreement on the major lines of petroleum policy has been crucial to provide the industry with the foreseeable framework it needs. This is one of the real competitive advantages of Norwegian base. That is why I am pleased – and it is important that the Committee has emphasised – that this case does not mean that Stortinget is changing the practice of other developments on Norwegian soil. It must remain the case that the rightholders are responsible for carrying out the activity on the base, whether for exploration, development, operation or responsibility for planning and implementing the field development. This work is carried out on the basis of the framework conditions established by the authorities. This is a good and profitable role-sharing. Investment decision and submission of plans for deployment and operation for Sverdrup are, as I said, planned early 2015. Now it is important that the rightholders get time to work on the Sverdrup project, so that we get the best possible development solution for Sverdrup and the other fields at the Utsira Height. I just want to comment on a little thing that the rapporteur said. It was stated that the information has not been good enough, and I have not submitted a case to Stortinget. If we could have done this work in dealing with the development and operation plan, I think we must all agree that the decision-making basis would have been more solid. We would at least have much more information available, both in the department and in the Stortinget. Then I have to find out that the Storting has apparently at last found out that they have enough information available, given that the decision you are making is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2147	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2150	We can read in the media that the Minister of Oil and Energy is pleased with what the Committee has now come up with, and it is pleasing to the Committee to be able to enjoy the Minister of Oil and Energy – let me stress it. But there is also an impression – at least an attempt is being made to create an impression – that this is something for which the Minister of Oil and Energy is very much in favour. I think that's very good. But that is when I wonder why, in a letter to the Committee already on 12 May, four days before the opposition promoted his views, he writes: ‘In line with the climate agreement, the government will take a final decision on this and the question of power from land to the three other extensions at/at the Utzira Height, inter alia, in the light of the analyses of rightholders and in order to ensure that the cost of action is taken into account.’ [[...]] Then my question is, why did the Council of State write it if, in principle, he believes that what the committee now collectively does is right?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2160	There was a lot of joy in that post to the representative of Aasland, at least at the beginning. I'm glad. But once again I want to give credit for having managed to remove the uncertainty – which was very present out there – about whether the project was going to be exposed. Of course, I really appreciate that. As to why the Minister of Oil and Energy believes that action costs should be taken as an consideration, it is because it has the Stortinget – among others. in the handling of the climate agreement — have been very clear on: the cost of action should be borne in mind. But as I said, I think there was a good dialogue on this in the committee, also until 16 May, and I want to say that it would have been more sensible to make this decision in the context of the plan for deployment and operation, and the information provision would have been better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2167	As I was in my post, we are pleased that the Oil Directorate is going to go through and look at when it is possible to build an area solution as soon as possible. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important that this is done in a way that ensures a thoroughness, that you can also use independent expertise to ensure the best possible basis for the Stortinget to look at when it is «fastest possible» to get this done, without leading to a delay for the phase one at Johan Sverdrup. What is important for the Council of State in the assessment that OD is going to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2174	Now this is going to be adopted today, and with all due respect, we in the department must be allowed to spend some time. I can assure you that we will use resources to get this letter from the farm as soon as possible, but I have to ask for respect for the fact that we have to have some time to figure out how to design such a letter. So I just want to add that I don't have any fundamental objections here and now against it also in that context should be able to use expertise outside of the OD, to the extent that it is necessary for professional reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2181	I think, with all due respect, that the Council of State – and the Right too – should stop talking about that we should have waited for the plan for development and operation, and that we could have taken exactly the same debate then. One knows very well that if one at that time had said that an area solution is not relevant, the majority's freedom of action would have been very small. Now it is almost one year before the plans for development and operation are to be addressed, and my question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that licensees act in accordance with the decisions taken by the Storting and with the comments in the suspension, and what dialogue will the Ministry of Trade have with the licensees to ensure that the assumptions made by the Storting are followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2188	First of all, we all know that the Johan Sverdrup development will be dealt with in Stortinget at least twice more – first in terms of the plan of development and operation for the first stage of construction, and at least one more time in terms of the plan of development and operation for the second stage of construction, and one can also provide guidance for a better decision-making basis in relation to the plan of development and operation for the first stage of the Sverdrup process further – with two stages of construction. It would have been quite possible to do. Then it wasn't done, and the decision is the way it is. I am absolutely sure that the rightholders at Johan Sverdrup, but also in the three smaller fields at the Utsira Height, will find both good cooperation solutions and good technical solutions to deliver on what the Storting decides today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2195	No! No! I believe the Council of State is wrong when he says that what we are adopting now, we could do when the matter comes to Stortinget next spring. Because what we are now adopting is not a move towards phase two; what we are now adopting is that the conditions to ensure an area solution with force from land should enter into the conditions to be adopted next spring, and that is precisely what this decision now requires. Governments have been concerned about starting up for Johan Sverdrup, but what the majority have been concerned about is that there have been no signs of securing power from land for the whole area, but would only be based on whether this was profitable based on a cost of action. So my question is – as a follow-up to Marit Arnstad: how will the Council of State now ensure that the conditions that ensure an area solution forcefully from land for the whole area enter the PUD to be adopted by the Stortinge to spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2205	First of all, I think – and I believe that the stock exchange development of these companies has shown during this process – that the companies are following the decisions of the Stortinget. So I think they themselves are going to address this with the necessary strength. Then, of course, the authorities – mainly through the Oil Directorate – follow these processes closely and are present in many of the meetings of the licensees. The authority requirements are followed up by the authorities, naturally, and that will of course also be the case in this case. But I am absolutely sure that all those involved – a total of ten rightholders at and at the height of Utzira – will address this and deliver with great strength on what the Storting decides today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2212	I have two questions in a short time, so I ask one of them very simply to the State Council Tord Lien: how will the State Council in its communication with the oil companies manage to avoid that they think there is a possibility of rematching the issue of area resolution «in 2022» and «as soon as possible»? How will Tord Lien do that? The second question is: I fully agree with both Marit Arnstad and Ola Elvestuen who say that we could not do this at a later stage, because that's just now we're adding the following lead: ‘The Committee asks the Government to provide as soon as possible a technical assessment by the Oil Directorate on the speed with which cable connections between the areas of Krog, Grieg, Aasen and Sverdrup can be established, if possible, from the start of production’. It would be impossible to set that requirement in one year, but it is possible to set that requirement now. So my question is in the extension of what Kjell Ingolf Ropstad said: How fast – and what timetable does Tord Lien see that he is going to have in terms of OD's investigation, and assessment, of cable connection?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2225	As I said, it is clear that it is my intention to follow up. The Stortinget now decides this today, and then I have respect for Stortinget – we have not sent a letter to OD until the decision is taken. We're going to put the necessary resources into it now and hope that we get it from farms before the holiday. Nearly half a billion dollars have been spent trying to figure out power solutions for these four platforms, and the OD is an organisation that doesn't necessarily have a size and a composition of competences that makes this uncomplicated. So how long does OD have to spend on a job that they don't necessarily have a lot of experience in doing, it's premature to answer right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2232	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2235	The issue of electrification of the Utsira Height has received a lot of attention, because many have been involved in the matter, there have been interesting political constellations, speculations and discussions about numbers and costs. But what is this really about? It's about jobs and industry, yes, it does, but it's also about the fact that at Stortinget we're going to show the power of action in climate policy, that we're going to follow up climate settlements and the leaders who've come from here in the past. The climate problem is the biggest challenge we have to solve in the future. There's no way out. Since September last year, we have been presented with several interim reports from the fifth main report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change on the actual state of the art. The first interim report concluded that human activity contributes to changing the climate on earth – that is to say, we have finished talking about that matter. The second report, which is quite serious in its conclusions, states that climate change is already under way: the earth is being heated, the ice is melting and sea level is rising. We must expect more rainfall, more floods and more drought. The report says that life in the sea is threatened, that we have to count on a great loss of natural diversity, that food production is going to be demanding – at sea, but also to land because crops with rice, wheat and maize will be lost. People will be driven away. None of this is particularly uplifting given that we know that we are becoming more and more people on earth. The climate problem is a global problem that requires the joint development of solutions by the international community. But we know that there's every reason to be concerned about the content of the international agreement that's going to be in place in Paris before Christmas next year, and about how committed it becomes. It is therefore essential for each country to implement national measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Norway, as an oil and gas producing country, has a special responsibility to limit national emissions. The third interim report, which came to pass, had as one of its main messages that greenhouse gas emissions in all parts of society require a large cut if we are to manage to limit global warming to 2 degrees. That's where we're now. We have to make wise choices, and electrifying the height of Outsira is such a wise choice. A journalist called me a little while ago to get a comment on the so-called conflict to demand electrification versus the risk of delays and consequences for the supplier industry and jobs. He asked rhetorically, trumps work environment? And then I was supposed to answer yes, since I'm from the Workers' Party. This is often the case with discussions about all environmental choices. However, it is actually possible to impose requirements and impose conditions, with reasonable time limits, which make it possible to achieve two objectives at the same time. I'm a little tired of the question of who is drumming who. We can never solve the climate crisis if we have that approach. I believe that the unanimity of the committee shows that the Storting is able to go far in order to get solutions that are for the best for the future, regardless of the approach taken to the matter. Of course, we can tease or accuse each other if someone has turned the whole way around in this case, like for example. State councillor Lien, and we can quickly get a round of distribution of honor. But in this case, I believe that there is enough honor for everyone: honor for having turned, if anyone has done so, honor for being constructive, honor for finding solutions, honor for being staunch, to the extent, and honor for making demanding decisions. Those who will may feel taken by the different descriptions, but it's actually a historically important decision we're making here today. The size has shown, through the examination of this case, that there is impatience in putting in place an area solution for Utsira, where the whole power demand is to be met by force from land. It's important for everyone to notice. The decisions we make here today must be followed up by the government. The climate problem is comprehensive and demanding, so it is necessary that we in this room make every effort to find solutions that draw us in the right direction. Today we can rejoice that in this case we have done just that. I hope that it can be an example for follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2261	First, I would like to stress that I am very pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind the vote. Through good negotiations in the committee, we were able to come up with a solution that takes account of both climate considerations, namely full electrification of the entire Utsira Height, of which the Johan Sverdrup project is part, and consideration for jobs and predictability in industry. Ensuring that Norwegian oil and gas production takes place in the most efficient way is a good investment for the future. We know that we are facing a future where growing concerns about climate change will push forward a more stringent climate and environmental policy. If you base the 2-degree goal, we know that there won't be room for all the fossil sources of the world's energy mix. At the same time, we know that there will be a need for oil and gas in this future as well. That means that it's the fossil energy with the lowest carbon footprint, produced in the most climate friendly way possible, that could be used. Norway is already the world leader in CO2 efficient oil and gas production. In addition, when we ensure that all air emissions related to production at the Utsira height are eliminated, as a result of land-based power, the oil and gas from it will be very climate-efficient in a global perspective and attractive in a future market, where stricter environmental requirements apply. Investing in full electrification of the Utsira Height is therefore a good investment in the value of Norwegian oil and gas in the future and in our joint responsibility for the climate challenges. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that underlines the importance that Johan Sverdrup development is not delayed. This was very important for the Right and the Government, and we have put great emphasis on this in the negotiations. Since February of this year, when Statoil presented its concept selection for the Johan Sverdrup development, the government has stated that we will work to put in place an area solution with power from land to the Utsira height. As you can see, there is no controversy for the government in this we are adopting today in Stortinget. However, our primary position was that this was to be done in the treatment of plans for expansion and operation – which are planned in Stortinget next spring – in line with common practice for large-scale development projects on Norwegian pedestals. However, when we choose to decide on this already now, it is gratifying that this happens in a way that does not put the project at risk. A postponement of Johan Sverdrup's first construction steps would have a major impact on coastal workplaces. For example, Kværner Verdal would risk having to close his doors if the contracts that would result from Johan Sverdrup's expansion were to wait. Not least, it would be very unfortunate for all apprentices to start their apprenticeships in the yard, such as: Kværner Verdal and Kværner Stord. In the last ten years, Kværner has contributed to the training of more than 1,600 skilled workers, by being one of the country's largest apprentice companies. For the regions in which Kværner operates, they are essential to train skilled workers in this sector. Norwegian yards are important recruitment arenas for the future labour force in the oil and gas industry. The shipyards play an important role in training the highly skilled workers, who are both current and future carriers in the Norwegian petroleum industry. In competition with abroad, Norway cannot be the cheapest, but we can certainly be the best. Then we need the Norwegian courts, and we need the apprenticeships they offer the future trade union workers. Many of the speakers here today have spoken about the need for clarity. They had to clear the uncertainty of the road. There had to be signs of the height of Utsira. I believe that this need is first and foremost built up by the parties that merged on 16 May. What we are adopting today is not something that could not have been adopted in the spring PUD, with the same consequence as it is now. When Statoil presented their concept choice to Johan Sverdrup in February, they already said that Stortinget could demand an area solution in the later construction stages at the PUD-treatment of the phase one for Johan Sverdrup. The concern expressed by Statoil, as expressed in the Committee's comments on the referral in this case, was the risk of a postponement in the event of a requirement for area resolution from day one in the phase of the project. That is exactly why we are not adopting it today. We decide to have an area solution in place by the end of 2022, which is when construction step 2 is scheduled to start. It wouldn't be too late to do in the PUD treatment of construction step 1 for spring. As long as you don't accept demands from day one in phase one, that doesn't make any difference. But after the reverse operation that the 16th May parties did during committee proceedings, when they realized that their consensus would most likely lead to a postponement, I understand that they need to create a picture and tell a story about why what we are adopting today is necessary. The truth is, it's almost meaningless. The truth is that the proposal we are adopting today could as well have been adopted when we are dealing with the PUD in the Spring Storting. There's no difference between what we're adopting today, and that government has always said we're going to do. I wonder if any of the parties who believe that this decision is necessary can point to concrete points in this decision, which could not have been made to the spring of the PUD. My claim is that they can't – in addition to repeating that it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2301	This is a big day for Norway as a nation. It's an important decision we're making today. It is important not only today, but also for the foreseeable future, to ensure great income for our nation. It is also a very good day because the decision taken by Stortinget ensures that neither the yard industry nor the supplier industry will be in a situation where both the permits and dismissals of hundreds and perhaps thousands of employees could be experienced quickly. It is also raised beyond any doubt that it blows a wind in the country, for it is not only former State Council Storberget who wants all power to his office. Obviously, many others also want all power to be in their own office at Stortinget. The desire for action or power was in the vanguard of bringing the yard industry and the supplier industry into a situation that could create mass permits and redundancies. Fortunately, one was able to understand, and the proposal that is under consideration today, I think everyone will, can and would like to go in favour of. But I must also say that here it is a paradox. We know that the representative Hansson does not want the oil industry in Norway. He wants it removed quickly. SV wants exactly the same thing. They're just spending a little longer time on it. Both parties have a strong desire to receive money, while wanting to reverse the part of Norway that is involved in financing research, development, prosperity and a future for the country. So in a sense, they want to turn off the light, click again the door, throw the key and take us on a journey back to the Stone Age, before the fire was invented. But they would need help there too, because with the policy they have in the case of predators, there is a great opportunity for others to have gone in and rescued them there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2312	It has been claimed – back and forth – that it was necessary to make this decision today or that it was not. I'm not going to run polemics with it, but I wish we could make even tougher demands today, so we made a claim that from 2019 it would be a matter of course that one should have full area solution with full electrification of all the platforms. At least it would have been good if it had been done. I find it interesting that the parties that have such confidence in the oil companies in all other matters do not believe that it is technically possible to solve this now. But that's not why I took the word. The reason why I took the floor, what I think is interesting in this case, and which I think is a challenge for us, is that over a year before the PUD is to be adopted in the Storting, we can't make those changes, can't set the requirements that a unanimous accumulation has always agreed that we should be silent, namely full electrification. It is also the case that in this debate the costs were first a challenge. The cost of the action was too high. Now it is the danger of postponement that is the main argument against us not being able to make tougher demands. In this respect, I would like to refer to the opinion of the Ministry of Climate and Environment on Statoil's draft elections, which they write: ‘Costs of different deployment solutions and assumptions on key variables such as electricity and gas prices, production profiles and power needs, impact on emissions of different design choices by more, will be crucial for the cost of measures for emission reduction measures. In order to assess the cost of action, the impact of emissions and the best solution in a societal perspective, it is necessary to have access to this evidence. Programmes for the KU do not provide this evidence, and it has therefore not been possible for the Ministry to assess the various possible options for the detection of energy needs, either action costs or emission impacts.» I think it's problematic that this is the way it is. I find it problematic that we cannot access the information that determines whether the cost of action is what it is. For those of us who have followed the debate for a long time: I know that there is a gap from the Add Energy report of 40 kroner per tonne of CO2, to the worst estimate in the operator's design choice, which is up to NOK 2300. It's pretty clear that none of these two numbers are right. Therefore, if we are to have a good debate, we are dependent on being able to rely on the cost of action. Then we're dependent on knowing what the underlying factors are. I believe that, regardless of this matter, we are served with a better way of obtaining the cost of action, more transparency around it, and perhaps more objective criteria, where it is possible to set, for example. a gas price or a power price on which we base. I also miss the inclusion in the cost-of-measure analyses of the other positive effects: HMS, better regularity, savings in operation, and – as we discussed instead – the possibility, for example. for offshore wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2329	The reason why I take the floor again, the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is his post, where he with a wide pen suggests that the council of state lies and owes him for being a good cause for the oil industry. Then the question is, who is it that gave the framework for the work that the ministry has done so far, until a new signal was received? Well, it's just the red-green government, through their petroleum message, that got wide connection here in the hall, and that SV was one of the proposers for through government participation. The question is: should the Council of State undertake to impose electrification of the socket at any cost of action, when the same representative behind the Document 8 proposal laid down a framework condition of 450 DKK ton? So, on the basis of signals that have been different from batch to batch, should a work be started at any cost? For whom was it that voted in favour of these frameworks? SV voted for them, the Labour Party and the Center Party as well. The progress party also voted for the kerosene message, but it left the frames that it has been working for until today. Coming here to the pulpit and saying that, after the agreement that we have now entered into in the committee, I found it rather uncomfortable to say. It reminds me of a political game that I thought would stay too good for. I can understand that one finally manages to come to an agreement, but he who has the greatest reason to feel disappointed by the signals that the partners gave, must be the representative, who went out and got an interview on the biggest political saying so far, and then it turned out that the partners were not able to trust. That's probably not how he hoped and believed anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2336	It might not be necessary to take the floor for the second time in a matter where the committee is very unanimous, and where everyone is very pleased with what they've been given, but I'm choosing to take the floor anyway, because I'm recording that the government parties are showering with the springs, and I have a certain understanding of it. I also have a certain understanding of the representative Brus anger about what we are doing now. It is not so strange, because they have made a significant turnaround after 16 May. It is a reality, and I think it is right to note that. What we, all opposition parties in Stortinget, presented on 16 May, contained very clear wording that the launch of Johan Sverdrup should not be delayed or delayed. One agreed on some other principles as well. Those principles have not been amended by the examination of the Committee. I don't know who can somehow prove that there are significant changes, that the opposition parties have turned around, but it should be done well to prove it. The only thing that has been confirmed as clear, and we are very pleased, is that the area solution should be in place by 2022, and it should be put into operation before any production start of Johan Sverdrup Phase 2. Yeah, that's what's done. Then there are questions about why we couldn't wait until the development and operation plan, PUD, was ready. It would have been very unwise — very unwise — and it could have been partly dramatic, not because the government had the aim of having an area solution, but the area solution would never have come if the cost of action had exceeded 450 kroner, because that is what the Council of State corresponds to the committee. The Council of State said in its reply to the committee that if the cost of action had been more than 450 kroner, he would not have demanded it. Now there's a fundamental connection to it. I'm very happy about that. But with that uncertainty, and the clarity and assurance that the Council of State could not trace a comma of will to introduce the area resolution beyond that, it was timely and right that a majority of the Stortinget made some demands on 16 May. I am also very pleased that we have reached an agreement in the committee, made deadlines clear, and that everyone is now confident that one will not have any postponements of the start-up time for the development of Johan Sverdrup. It's a powerful force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2347	The debate is somewhat marked by the fact that it is a manifest compromise that we are going to adopt today, but we are going to adopt it. It has been mentioned in the debate that there are a few times that a proposal for a representative receives the kind of attention that this proposal for a representative has received, and that is right. The type of representative proposal is often addressed and is often dealt with when minority governments are not sufficiently responsive to what a majority in the United Kingdom wants, and that is what has been part of the background of this debate. It is true that it is rare to enter and require concrete assumptions relating to specific projects. In the opinion of the Centre Party, it is not that one should make it a general rule – it would not be in line with what we normally have done in Norwegian oil policy – but this project is a little different. It stands out in the sense that there is a long-term announced project. The size has repeatedly expressed the desire to electrify the height of Utsira, and then one must also expect one in the project to be listening to what the Storting has said in that context. And then it's also the principal significance of the project, in terms of the question of getting electrification of Norwegian pedestal started. I have to say that I think that it is actually as much like government and builders who have contributed to creating uncertainty as to whether the Storting's previous assumptions would have been met – because there is no doubt that the Storing had this as a precondition in the past. So I have to say, when the representative Tina Bru asked what would have changed to the PUD, I think the case-rapporteur gave a very good example of what would change in terms of area resolution. If one came back and said that this was an area solution that has a cost of action of more than 450 kroner per tonne of CO2, would Right then, when dealing with plans for expansion and operation, dared to do anything other than what the builders and the license had said? If Statoil came back and said that this could not be done until 2025, would the Right Party and the Advance Party dare to set the current year in Stortinget? We give a clear work order to the government through what's happening today. Actually, we meet a framework condition that I believe a majority on the Stortinget has repeatedly expressed, but over and over again there has been uncertainty about what the Storing has wanted. It was a representative from one of the companies who said in the newspaper during the debate earlier this spring that if the Storting wants us to do this, it's going to impose it on us. Yes, that's exactly what the Big One is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2363	The representative of Terje Aasland had a reflection on who has performed a spin-off, and it is worth noting that at least the trade union movement believes that the Workers' Party has turned around. We are pleased that the Labour Party has done so. Let me then talk a little bit about something that both the representative Arnstad and the representative Elvesuen have mentioned, namely that it was absolutely necessary to take this decision now, and not wait until the development and operation plan is discussed in spring 2015. Then it is worth remembering that the development of construction step 1 at Johan Sverdrup with what we adopt today will go undisturbed and as planned. It is the intention of what we are adopting today, precisely to ensure that there are no delays in building stage 1 – and, of course, to put in place an area electricisation after construction stage 1 has been put into production. It is the construction and operation plan for construction step 1 to be addressed in the spring of 2015. It's unproblematic. There are indications of what will happen after the start of construction stage 1 – that is what we are now adopting. This must be the case, precisely because the Committee is quite clear that area electricisation should not delay construction stage 1 – this must be followed. Then SV's representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is very concerned that the government has not done enough to send signals to the oil companies that an area solution is wanted. It is worth reminding him that the previous government could make a principle decision on the area electrification of the Utsira height. It didn't. Instead, the notification of petroleum was adopted, which gave the overall leadership of the petroleum policy. SV voted in favour of it – and otherwise all other Norwegian-socket expansions over the last eight years. The climate agreement agreed that it was a goal to achieve a region solution. The government parties could say that you were just going to do it. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås sat in a government by a majority to say that one should just do it. However, when you chose not to do so, I realized that it was because the red-green government was also concerned with having a decision-making basis before deciding on electrification or not. Thus, we would have had a better decision-making basis if we had taken a decision on this in connection with the treatment of plans for the development and operation of Johan Sverdrup's construction step 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2372	First to the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås: But there's no need to wait on that decision base if what's the goal, is just an area solution. On the left hand side, we've been working on an area solution at the Utzira Height for a long time, and we're very pleased with the decision we're making today. We are also satisfied with the job done in front of the decisions, and believe that that agreement was absolutely necessary, and also to show it on 16 May – because that is where the big change is. Before 16 May, this was a discussion where you had a desire for an area solution, but it always depended on whether it could respond within the cost of action, that is. the price of the CO2 charge and the quota price. I think it was pretty open, and it was clearly communicated, that if you didn't get a price below the cost of action, you wouldn't recommend going further with an area solution either. If the government has meant anything else, it has at least been extremely poorly communicated towards Stortinget. What we're doing now is just removing this doubt. Now we get the area-specific decision that is absolutely necessary to move on with a force from land-solution for the whole area. Then there's the other parts that lie there, that's the investigation from the Oil Directorate, which it's necessary to do now, if you're going to have any kind of opportunity to get an investigation in time to deal with it when we're going to deal with the PUD of the next spring. This is a good day because we not only get a compromise, we get a clear decision: one should have implementation as early as possible, but no later than 2022. And it's a good day because we're finally getting to realize that there's going to be an area solution at the Utzira height.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2392	Before 16 May, the government parties had never stated that they would impose area solutions. Today, we decide that area resolution is to be imposed. Before 16 May, the government parties had never stated that an area solution would be in place from day one. Neither do we today, but we who wanted an area solution from day one, had to make suggestions about it early, and not wait until next year. The third is that government parties have never stated that the entire power demand throughout Johan Sverdrup’s lifetime is to be met by power from land. Today we agree that force from land should be required to be applicable to the entire Johan Sverdrup field. I would like to say that it is worrying that the government parties are not saying what we are adopting today, namely that we are going to put an area solution in place as soon as possible, and no later than 2022 – because that is what we are adopting today. That's what the government parties are into. And that's what we depend on being communicated to the oil industry – to avoid a rematch. I repeat my question to the state councillor Tord Lien that he did not respond to in reply: What will the state councillor Tord Lien communicate to the oil companies in order that they will work to put in place an area solution as soon as possible and no later than 2022, and that it is not relevant to rematches? The last thing I want to mention is what Nikolai Astrup was into. He said that the whole purpose of the decision today is not to make any changes to the building stage 1. Then Nikolai Astrup must read the committee position, for it says: ‘The Committee asks the Government to provide as soon as possible a technical assessment by the Oil Directorate on the speed with which cable connections between the fields of Krog, Grieg, Aasen and Sverdrup can be established, if possible, from the start of production, without delaying the first stage of the Johan Sverdrup field. The Committee takes the view that this time indication forms the basis for the definition of conditions to be addressed in the grossing-up proposal, which is planned to be addressed in the spring of 2015.’» The whole purpose of this section is just to see if it's possible to change construction stage 1 in a way that allows us to get cable connections between the different platforms from the start. We, who are faithful to the climate agreement, understand that it is necessary to meet the clear ambition of the Environment Directorate, to prevent an increase in CO2 emissions and rather bring them down. It would have been a pleasure for me if Nikolai Astrup understood that this is what we write in the setting, and as we adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2409	Once again, I find a reason to remember that this is a huge industrial project. When the first construction steps on the Johan Sverdrup field are completed, it will be one of the greatest forces from the land solutions that have ever come into place. There has been a discussion about when and how the other fields should be supplied with power from land. To the representative Eidsvoll Holmås – as I also see as a lot more constructive on this crossroads than on the last crossroads – I just want to be very clear that the government will of course follow up on what the Stortinget decides today, and make sure that this comes into place, in line with the wishes of Stortinget, and no later than 2022. With regard to action costs, I would like to quote: ‘ the level of CO2 charge and the allowance price reflect the level of action costs to determine whether it should be implemented or not’;» [[...]] I may have said this earlier – I have probably done so – but the quote is from Ola Borten Moe, in a reply given in writing to Stortinget on 18 November 2011, while Ola Borten Moe was the State Council in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. So there's no trick I've invented. On the other hand, there is something that the red-green government overthrew the country after eight years, and that a significant majority on several occasions over the eight years gave full support to. I would like to say that this is probably also the reason why of the last ten major expansions – the major further development – of Norwegian fields that were carried out under red-green rule, only Martin Linge field was supplied with power from land, not the nine others. We will send the proposal to electrify the first extension we are responsible for, to Stortinget. Having said that, I would say that it is not just the Right Party and the Advance Party that have been concerned that what came out on 16 May could lead to postponement. This isn't something we've dictated. On the contrary, there has been real concern in the supply industry, among operators, in the financial world in Norway and internationally — but not least among all the thousands of people who are going to compete to do these jobs. Those are the ones that have been most concerned. The whole foundation of the Norwegian oil and gas industry is our skilled workers, our professionals, at all levels. They've been worried about postponement. I note that this concern has disappeared in the period between 16 May and today. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2427	The representative of Terje Aasland used the word "grease" about my post earlier today. Anger was probably a bit of a strong word to use. I'm not angry, I just point out with commitment that we could strictly put these requirements into the PUD treatment. If the Labour Party and the other parties were so sure that what they agreed on 16 May was not a risk of postponement, why at all take time to negotiate another clarification of what the proposal meant, with the government parties? If the goal was to show that power is in the Storting, and if the goal was to instruct the government, they could only have stood on their own. It wasn't like that. It was recognised that there was a need for clarification, not least in order to remove the uncertainty created by a large supply industry in Norway. The representative Arnstad is trying to answer my question in his last post. The closest she gets an answer, is a question back if the government would have accepted a cost of action of over 450 kroner. We in the government parties have never said that we couldn't, but the truth is that we currently don't have enough knowledge to know exactly what this cost of action is. That is precisely why we wanted to wait with this discussion to the PUD process. I believe that it is no shame to say that costs have something to say. We've never defined how high the cost should be, but there's no shame in saying that it plays a role. I am more concerned, however, that many representatives here today seem to believe the opposite. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2436	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2439	It is interesting to hear the representative Eidsvoll Holmås talk about being faithful to the climate agreement, when we know that the lack of effort of the red-green government is the reason why we are so far on deficit as the Environment Directorate has now revealed that we are doing. The new government is doing the best it can to do something about the matter. Then to the point ‘fastest possible’. Today we decide that area electrification should be deployed as soon as possible. Everyone understands that if we are not to delay construction step 1 in the Johan Sverdrup field, and a new installation is to be built in order to electrify the area, it must be connected with construction step 2. And so that has to happen before the end of 2022. We're going to figure out if it's possible to do this faster. Of course, I hope it is, but I think we need to be realistic about what is possible in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2446	The next speaker is the representative of Terje Aasland, who is the rapporteur on the subject and therefore has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2449	Just a brief reflection at the very end of the debate: I think it is absolutely crucial and important that the Stortinges together clarify at the present time what we are resolving in this matter – before the PUD reading. We could refer to further construction steps etc., but – with the hand on the heart – those who have been through PUD treatments before know that it is quite demanding and quite complicated to make the kind of relatively clear confirmations in a PUD treatment where the processes are well underway. I certainly believe that it is right that the Storting together does what we are doing now. I think we can be relieved that, in such a large, difficult and important matter, we will end up with a joint committee and a total magnificence. The most important thing is after all what is written in the setting, and the decisions we make. I would say that the Minister of Oil and Energy can't be in any position in the position at all doubt what he is going to do. It's absolutely clear what the Big One's ambitions and conditions are. I'm glad. Then we can continue the discussion about who has turned, and who has not turned – there is a little uninteresting in this room right now. I just want to replicate to the representative of Astrup. When he says that the trade movement believes that the Workers' Party has turned around, it is Leif Sande in Industry Energy who believes it. I underline: I haven't even talked to Federal Leader Sande during this treatment, so his expression is probably sucked from my own chest, without being inside my heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2462	The representative, Marit Arnstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2465	I should have wished that the Right had recognised – there is nothing to be ashamed of saying it – that when it comes to a PUD expansion, there are great limitations on what the Big thing can do about change, and we all know that. Then the companies have really presented the concept, they have presented it to the ministry, and the government has presented it to the Stortinget. You're almost in the process of entering into contracts, and we know that there's very little Storing can do to change it. It means that given that someone has made recommendations that are not in line with what the Storting says today, we have had very few opportunities to change it. Now, through this decision, the Storting also provides the licences for one year in order to arrive at solutions that are in line with the assumptions of the Storting. Furthermore, design is not a static process in the oil industry. It's a dynamic process, and I have great faith that the licenses will have the opportunity to meet the expectations of the Stortinge today unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2470	The representative, Ola Elvestuen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2474	First, I would like to remind you that the wording of the decision we are now making is quite similar to what was presented on 16 May, that is what created the dynamics. I am also pleased that the government has come in, and that the government parties have agreed on those decisions. We get changes based on these decisions already now. Landfills are now being built in a completely different dimension, with the preparation for an area solution also in phase 1. It must be positive that the Storting is as early as possible to provide the necessary predictability of an area solution, and that is a requirement of the Stortinget. Even in this debate, there can be uncertainty from the government parties if one really wanted to wait and let it still be a calculation of the cost of action and not a decision in itself that makes it quite clear that there will be power from land.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2481	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2484	I would still like to stress that what the Storting decides today is that we should have an area solution that will meet the whole area's power needs as soon as possible. I underline that because Nikolai Astrup again takes the word and speaks as a technician who perceives that the best solution is to push an area solution to 2022 in what he calls phase 2. I want to ask Tord Lien to follow up that decision, not in the way Nikolai Astrup says, but by going to the Oil Directorate and asking how we can follow up an area electricization that will meet the entire area's power needs as soon as possible without delaying the first stage of construction. The Minister of Oil and Energy may then receive a different answer on how to follow up the Storting decision. The second is the power connection between the different installations, which is also about getting it in place as quickly as possible. If we hadn't made the decision we're making here today, that order would never have gone to the OD, and that work would never have been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2491	The last recorded speaker is the representative Oskar J. Grimstad. Grimstad has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2494	I have to say I am a little surprised at what is happening today in the debate when it relates to the impact you have through the PUD, the development and operation plan. One gives the impression that when this document comes to Stortinget, it is more like information for Stortinget, and the information that Stortinget receives is accepted. It's mildly said a presentation that doesn't match. The large frames give one in the kerosene message, as the red-green government did, as SV did and underlined that the framework conditions should be, and then give a signal about the individual measures to be taken on individual extensions, through the PUDs. Then to say that a neighbor does not have the potential to influence, simply does not seem knowledgeable. I didn't think it was possible to make such a claim from the pulpit today in a matter that has been controversial, but that finally got a deal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2499	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that case No. 11 moved to after case no. 7 and that the cases No. 7 and 11 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2528	No one has asked to speak on the matter. 7 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2542	In this proposition, the Storting proposes a new law on fishing rights in the Tanava stretch, the so-called Tana Law. The new law will be repealed and to a large extent passed on the Law of 23 June 1888 on the Court of Fisheries in the Tanavastraket, the so-called Tanalaw of 1888. The majority's claim that the Tana Law is passed on as a special law is followed, even Innst. 88 L for 2012–2013 on the management of land and natural resources in the state of Finnmark. The proposal for a new Tanalov has been put to the attention, and the main impression from the hearing is that there is a broad support for the bill. On the basis of the hearing opinions, the Ministry has made minor adjustments in some of the proposed decisions. The hearing also made the proposal for Section 3 of the Bill on the relationship to international law visible in the hearing. The Ministry points out that the bill will not have any economic or administrative implications, and that is why it is a joint committee that supports the position on this issue. So short to a special comment in the option from the Progress Party, which is of the opinion that the Tana Act is a law and should be based on local self-government. One has noted in particular that in the listening process of the Tanavasstrek Fish Administration, the rights to fish are defined by law, regardless of ethnicity. The uncertainty in the understanding of the proposed additional wording of Section 3 of the Act, which makes the law applicable with the exception of restrictions contained in ILO Convention No. 169, is afraid to create insecurity attached to the management regime of the Tanavas line and the practice of the law. The progress game points to this, but please choose to go ahead with your current settings. I would like to recommend the setting in the case with this option.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2559	In general, this is a relatively small matter, but it actually has great significance for those involved. It is clear that when the fish management of the Tanavas Trail does not wish to infuse neither ILO Convention No. 169 or interference from the Sameting, which they may experience differently, including: very bureaucratic, we should actually listen to what local administrators think and say. It's not long since the Storting had this case processed. It was then decided unanimously by the Stortinget that the ILO Convention should have no effect in view of the Tana Law. I don't know if it was the composition of the Stortinget at the time, or if it was an electoral year that had great significance, but at least it was very clear that the representative of the Workers' Party, Bendiks H. Arnesen, had a very good understanding of the situation in both Troms and Finnmark. He actually understood that getting this into the law would not reduce the conflicts. On the contrary, it would increase the level of conflict in Finnmark. And we have more than enough conflicts of this already. It is true that farmers in Tana do not have the same ownership rights as other farmers in Norway. You don't own land after the river valleys in Finnmark, you rent land from the state. This means that there are no benefits to renting out fishing rights. It could provide a basis for business, tourism, etc. You don't have a chance to do this because it's forbidden by law to rent something you own. That's why this law is very important to those who live in the Tana Valley. In the end, many believe that conflict levels are being reduced by granting some more rights than others. I'm going to say that in Finnmark, you've actually experienced the opposite very often – you create more conflicts. I stand in the same number myself, but I will never get there that I demand special treatment for the rest of the community with a background in my ethnicity. In fact, I demand to be able to be treated like the person and the person I am – not based on special rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2572	I felt the need to say something, so that it was not just the Progress Party that spoke here in the hall. It sounds like they're really against what we're doing now, but they're voting for -- that's good. At least I think it is good that they vote in favour – I think the rest of the committee agrees. I would just like to stress, since we got into the discussion on ILO Convention No. 169 on the right to land and water, that the work done in Norway on the follow-up to this ILO Convention, with the significant investigations carried out on how to resolve issues related to rights of use, property rights and by other means, is good. We need to ensure that justice for indigenous people is not just what we are talking about for other countries to take care of, but that we also have to do the same in Norway. After all, structural differences and distribution of power make different individuals have equal opportunities to live out the fair assumptions that it is reasonable to expect. These investigations were carried out — there are some bricks of some investigations — are good legal considerations used internationally. For this reason, together in Norway has a very special ‘standing’ internationally, because a decent job has been done. With this I would say that I think it is good that we have this decision today. I think there's one more step on the way that we're about to go, to ensure the follow-up to ILO Convention No. 169 and to ensure good and balanced solutions for the whole of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2583	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2597	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each party and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2606	I would like to make a brief statement saying that I think it is good that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has presented the proposal she has made. From the Committee, we have been committed to rapid treatment, because this is really about ensuring the practice and enforcement of the law of natural diversity that is effective and which makes the law more effective in taking care of the Norwegian natural diversity. It fully supports the Committee. Then, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Green Party and the Left, I will address the proposals described in the vote. We have put forward the proposals because we felt it was right to follow up the intentions of the Minister for Climate and Environment to ensure that the release of organisms that are not naturally present on the ground is banned, saying that we should lower the threshold for risk assessment, not just prohibiting what is known to be harmful to other plants and the diversity of nature in this area, but actually lowering the threshold as low as ensuring that ‘avoiding the risk of significant adverse consequences for biodiversity’. It's because I think it's more in line with the precautionary principle. That is why we supported that proposal. I would also like to commend the Minister for Climate and Environment for a very open and positive letter, which at least I perceived as a clear support for the fact that such a proposal was fully feasible, and perhaps even desirable. We do not get a majority in favour of that proposal. We have a discussion that relates to Norwegian wood, where we say very clearly that we want the code tightened up. We believe that we only need to ensure transparency for Norwegian wood that is naturally found on the spot. It is quite simply that trees that exist one place and can belong in the natural diversity and the natural environment are there, not necessarily belong all over the country, but on the contrary can pose a threat in other parts of the country. That is why we have thought it right to promote a proposal that takes care of this, thus giving environmental authorities a stronger opportunity to put their feet down if the forest industry wants to do things that would be contrary to the diversity of nature. I also realized there that the Minister for Climate and Environment sent us a positive response. That is why we have found it wise to maintain the proposal, but I regret to see that the government parties are voting it down. All in all, I would say that it is wise and good changes proposed by the Minister for Climate and Environment, and we are following them wholeheartedly, and they are being adopted today. And then it's one last element, and that's that part of the reason for implementing the proposal is that it's going to lead to simplification. Some hearing bodies have expressed their critical opinion on whether the proposals put forward here are going to lead to simplification at all. However, there may be good proposals, but this may be true even if it does not lead to simplification. However, on the part of the Committee, we have wanted to ask for a review of this once the legislation has worked for a few years, to see if it actually contributes to the simplification that the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment has called for, and that we are voting for here today. With this I address the proposals that I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2623	Then the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås brought up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2626	I'm gonna be short, too. I can join that post that Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås just made, and also the reasons for the proposers. The proposals we have are a strengthening of the precautionary principle. The reason why I take the word, is to underline the importance of making a change in the release of trees. Is there one thing that I must say irritated me by the previous government, it was that they made it easier to plant trees as if they were not foreign, which gives no meaningful restriction in many places in Norway. It is clear that with the forest planting that takes place in many places, and as there is a great will to strengthen in many places, it is absolutely essential that we do not go into a new foresting time with grandling around in Norwegian fjords and coastal landscapes that many work hard to achieve. So I think it's a very bad thing that we didn't get a majority to get into this constraint, to get a clarification that it should be planted, there must be indigenous trees. Expanding this range is one of the real threats to biodiversity in many places, as well as the change it brings to the entire cultural landscape and the whole landscape sense in many places. So this is important. And even if we don't get a majority now, there's definitely something that the left won't stop working with. This is one of the major environmental issues in Norway now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2637	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough review, to which I fully agree, and thank you to the Minister for the Environment for a well-intentioned and largely good review and a good proposal for tightening up the deployment of alien organisms. I particularly appreciate two things: the introduction of a regulatory helmet, which can explicitly prohibit the release of alien organisms, and a law that can prohibit the placing on the market of certain organisms. It could be a reinforcement, so roughly we want to welcome this. Then I just want to elaborate on what the representatives Holmås and Elvestuen said. Then I'll ask you to think back on some rides that you've probably had around here in South Norway for the last few weeks, where you've had the joy of sweeping through huge meadows of the plant lupin, which is a star example of what happens when you don't use your head in importing and launching garden plants in Norway. There is a type of dispersal that has long since completely come out of control and which is crowding out small but indigenous Norwegian plants and plant communities. The point we in the Green Party is a little bit concerned with, is a proposal in Section 29 which implies a very general term for groups of organisms. This will continue to make it easy for garden owners to import plants that will have a potential spread capacity in Norwegian nature and that do not necessarily appear on prohibition lists because plants not established in Norwegian nature are not on prohibition lists. So we want to see the government – this and next – follow up on the obligation to assess the impact of legislative changes in five years' time, with a particular aim of tightening up the precautionary practices also in the field of gardening.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2646	If representatives wish to vote on their own proposal, they must be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2649	Thank you, I refer to the proposal of the Greens/Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European Greens/European
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2654	The representative then addressed the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2657	The Nature Diversity Act was adopted in 2009, but the chapter on alien organisms has not yet entered into force. It is now high time to put the legislation in place. Therefore, the government is now promoting proposals for some changes to the Nature Diversity Act. The aim of the proposal is to simplify the practice of the law, while not weakening the purpose of the law. The main aim is to put in place legislation to protect Norwegian nature from alien harmful species — one of the greatest threats to natural diversity. Signal crabs, water fever and wild bear chicks are examples of species that have been able to establish themselves in Norway and have significant adverse effects on natural diversity. In the EU, alien harmful species are considered to be the second largest threat to biodiversity and the annual cost to society is estimated at at least 12 billion. euro. The EU has now proposed legislation on alien species, so it tells a little about taking this seriously. I am pleased that the majority of the committee in its position supports the government's proposed legislative changes. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee's requests to the Government ensure that the corresponding regulations are adopted by 1 January 2015. I'll do my best to make this happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2668	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2672	There is every reason to enjoy most of this matter. But this kind of thing can sometimes give absurd results when they're going to be concrete. Section 31 of the Act provides guidance on what can be done without special authorisation. I would then only ask the Council of State to confirm or confirm that there will be no obligation to apply for planting of bush pine, Swedish asal and syrin in park facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2679	I want to confirm that there will not be a ban on it in private gardens. Then I have to get back to what concerns parking.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2684	The government parties today are voting down the SV proposal, the Green Party and the Left to impose stricter restrictions on the planting of non-local Norwegian wood. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Climate and Environment: when the government parties do that, what other measures than such a type of ban as we would like, will the government and the Minister for Climate and Environment do to reduce the danger and threats that spruce and other species that do not belong on the ground challenge and threaten biodiversity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2691	According to the law today, there is no requirement for authorisation for the release of Norwegian wood species, so the proposal that has been made really represents a reversal of what was adopted by the Nature Diversity Act in 2009. And it would have quite significant consequences and not least affected the use of Norwegian spruce. I just need to stress that the legislative proposal does not involve any changes in the outsourcing of the sitkagran, which has been a major challenge, and which today requires authorisation under its own regulations on foreign wood species. So the law becomes like it stays in that area. Then we have to make sure that there are no three-strokes here that hinder the development that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2698	I see that the Council of State, both in its letter and in the answer here now, acknowledges or acknowledges that the planting of Norwegian wood in areas where they are not at home can be a challenge to biodiversity. Then I just repeat the question, because the council simply replied that there would be no tightening. No, we note that, but the question is: if she acknowledges, as she does, that the planting of Norwegian spruce – which does not require authorisation – can be a problem for biodiversity in some places, what does she intend to do to prevent this from posing a threat to biodiversity there?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2705	It's true that when we don't change the law, we don't have the law with us to say that you can't put out certain tree species. That was decided by the Storting when they adopted the Nature Diversity Act in 2009, and then we relate to what has now been adopted there. We have to make sure it doesn't happen, but we can't use the law to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2710	There is again not an answer to what I am asking for. I understand that we do not get a law that supports us in this, and that the Council of State does not want to change. But what I'm asking is: what other things does the Council of State think it is important to do to prevent the planting of Norwegian spruce becoming a threat to the biodiversity where it is deployed, when it is not a site-specific species – that is, when it does not belong on site?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2715	When we don't have a law for this, it's important to use the Environment Directorate and the county officials and to inform about the wood layers it makes sense to plant out. There has perhaps been the most attention to the sitka branch, and there will be no change in the law now passed in view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2720	This will be seen in the extension of Eidsvoll Holmås’ questions as to whether there are a number of positive instruments that can be used, in particular to ensure the conservation of cultural landscapes, to preserve landscapes in protected areas, and to have a greater knowledge of what is happening to endangered species, so that they can be used in the past. Is this something the minister wants to look at?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2727	It is very important that, where positive instruments are used, they are used on the wood that is not harmful to Norwegian nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2732	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2749	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2758	The current draft representative is a proposal to call on the government in the context of the forthcoming government budget to present a climate budget showing how the government intends to achieve the climate targets for 2020, 2030 and by 2050, and how the budget affects Norway’s climate emissions. There is an overall committee that believes that there is a need to implement new measures and instruments to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions and that there is a need for a better overview of the impact of policies on emissions and what we can expect from emissions as a result of the decisions actually taken. During the examination of the matter in the committee, we received a letter from the Government Council Sundtoft, where she writes that all departments today report on the greenhouse gas impact of their major investment proposals where relevant. The majority of the Committee considers that this is not sufficient and therefore proposes to have a climate budget similar to that contained in the SV’s draft representative. During the discussion of this matter, the topic of climate legislation has come up. The Green Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party write in their respective comments that they are in favour of such a law. The Labour Party does not wish to go into that issue in the consideration of this proposal for a representative. So the Right, the Advance Party and the Left have made a concrete proposal where they: ‘considers the government in the context of the work on future climate objectives, and in the context of assessing the appropriateness of a climate law, further assesses how the control and monitoring of the achievement of the objectives of climate policy can be carried out’. There are different shades in the Committee in terms of measures to follow the trend of greenhouse gas emissions, but what I want to say about several of the comments and the proposal is that they point in the same direction. There's now a majority in the committee to get a climate budget, and I'm very happy about that. I hope and believe that it can be a useful tool to follow, but also to bring down, the greenhouse gas emissions. This is also fully in line with the expectations expressed by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change in the latest interim report on Easter, where they say that there is a need to go through all sectors contributing to greenhouse gas emissions and implementing measures. In this context, a climate budget, as I see it, will be very useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2775	Let me first thank the proposers for travelling an interesting theme. It is true, as the proposers also state, that we are lagging behind in achieving the climate goals set in the climate agreement. This must be primarily the response of the previous government, but I am glad that the sitting government has said that they will strengthen the climate agreement and thus contribute to our goal, even if this is going to be demanding from the point of view we took. The previous government made known two climate announcements. This led to two climate settlements in the United Kingdom to help reinforce these measures. Nevertheless, we know that it was not enough, and that we have to go on. Then, in line with the last climate agreement, the government has said that it should assess the appropriateness of a climate law. In this context, the climate budget will also be analysed. We believe it is appropriate to await this investigation before we conclude whether a climate budget is a good measure in this context. While we await it, we also believe that the work carried out by the Environment Directorate in March 2014 on order from the Ministry of Climate and Environment was a transparent and good report. The political parties, together with the Left, have therefore proposed that we: ‘considers the government in the context of the work on future climate objectives, and in the context of assessing the appropriateness of a climate law, further assesses how the control and monitoring of the achievement of the objectives of climate policy can be carried out’. We then assume that this type of report can be updated regularly to provide a better professional basis for national climate policy. We believe that this will be the right way to proceed in this matter, and then we see that the Storting share the objective that we should have a good and sound professional basis for the decisions and actions we are taking. I think we all deserve that. I bring this up with the proposal that was referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2790	The representative Nikolai Astrup has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2793	In order to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement, several different measures are possible. There, a climate budget may be such a measure as may be appropriate. That is precisely why this government, as the previous speaker said, has asked, and we also have a proposal that it should be assessed. In such a context, when a person enters and receives a professional assessment of what is most appropriate, it would be reasonable for such measures to be assessed in conjunction with many others to see if they are appropriate. Eight to nine months have passed since we got a new government, and a series of such measures that we see on the table as a representative proposal will be launched. It is a little strange that the same representatives as members of the previous government are now getting completely uncontrolled – almost – busy making suggestions. And then we know that, following an initiative by the sitting government, where the Environment Directorate now sees that we have – is it – a lag of 8 million tonnes, is a reason to initiate action. This should be seen by the previous government, with members of the Socialist Left Party in particular, at that time. Or do they work best in opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2802	The Christian People's Party has long called for Norway to introduce a climate law. We mean a climate law, according to the British pattern, will ensure a longer-term climate policy. Therefore, there will be one of the most important laws the Stortinget can adopt during this period. The United Kingdom got its law in 2008. In 2012, Mexico followed, and Finland, Denmark and China also work on legislative proposals. Now it's time for Norway to do the same thing. In recent times, through two reports, we have repeatedly highlighted the serious situation on our globe. The Environment Directorate has shown that we have no opportunity to achieve the climate agreement's objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. Compared to 1990, if we do not introduce drastic measures in a number of areas. We can no longer discuss whether we should electrify new fields forcefully from land, whether we should increase the bet on public transport, or whether we should increase the transition to more fuel-rich cars and to electric and hybrid cars. Now we know that we need to implement all these measures, and more, to achieve the goal. The Intergovernmental Panel’s second interim report shows that the temperature has already increased by nearly 1 degree and is expected to increase by 4 degrees this century. The consequences if this occurs are reduced food safety, more extreme weather and threatened ecosystems. The risk can be reduced if we do something to reduce emissions. We believe it is urgent to put in place a rigorous and good climate law. Therefore, to ensure a good tool, a wide range of laws must be set up as soon as possible. Such a legislative selection must also be mandated to look at climate policy ‘holes’ in other parts of the law, so that we can have a coherent legislative framework to achieve climate objectives. We believe it is absolutely essential that national climate targets are based on facts from climate science. There is broad political agreement in Norway on many of the measures to achieve the 2 degree target. However, many of the most important measures needed can be rapidly prioritised in competition with more short-term measures. A climate law with carbon budgets based on the British model will ensure a longer-term climate policy. It will shift the discussion from one way to another, because it sets the framework, but leaves to politicians to decide on the measures to reduce emissions sufficiently. A climate law will oblige any government to follow up climate objectives and provide a tool for systematic reporting of actions undertaken. Today, we lack an overall tool to provide long-term emission reductions in all sectors. A climate law will make the overall emission targets legally binding. The size must therefore ensure that all societal planning goes in the same direction, if we are to avoid the most dramatic impacts of changing climate. We're impatient. We do not want to await a climate law, but point out that it is urgent to have a climate law. That is why we support the proposal for the introduction of the climate budget, as a first element of a comprehensive climate law.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2823	As the rapporteur said, there is an overall committee that believes there is a need for further action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and is concerned about the seriousness of climate policy. I think it's interesting that Stortinget gets these kinds of things for treatment. Regardless of who is promoting the proposal, there is an interesting debate both in the committee's proceedings and here in the Chamber behind it. The question is then whether it is sufficient for each department to report on the greenhouse gas impact of its actions, on major measures, where appropriate, when appropriate, in budgetary terms, or whether it should have been otherwise systematised by a climate budget. We in the Centre Party believe, like the majority, that today's practices could have favourably been extended to a climate budget, because the Stortinget also needs a more continuous update and a better overview of developments in terms of the impact on climate policy of the work of the various sectors. A climate budget can be a means of achieving it. It can also simply be a measure that would have given us a better basis for good climate debates in this room. We in the Center Party also want a climate law, like the Christian People's Party, and believe that it would allow us to have a long-term and comprehensive climate policy today to some extent lacking – seeing things in relation to each other, not prioritizing short-term things at the expense of more important, longer-term things, being able to see the different areas in relation to each other, getting tools in climate policy that can work in a better way than what we see today. We see both budget and climate law as important elements for that. Then it is that when you're going to establish a law, you have to put down a law selection. Should one have any progress, so that one can also implement this within a reasonable time horizon, a real set should put down that law selection quite soon. Then it is a little sad that government parties and the Left will first assess the appropriateness of a climate law, and when they have done so, they will consider the issue of a legislative selection, and then they will assess the treatment in government. It is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, primarily an attempt to postpone the matter – quite simply. In any case, I find it difficult to see what another person should be able to achieve by first assessing the appropriateness, and then having a legislative selection. It is clear that a legislative selection can also look at considerations of appropriateness while doing their job of designing the specific legal text. I think it is an attempt to postpone the matter. But I hope that we will eventually be able to get there that one starts to prepare that kind of climate law, and at least that the left will gradually think and help to speed up that kind of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2838	I can reassure the representative Arnstad that we in the Left are in favour of a climate law. We have programmed climate laws and we intend to work to put in place a climate law, which the Center Party was unable to achieve through eight years in government. It's amazing that both the Central Party, SV and the Workers' Party are obscurant about how to change budgetary work as soon as it's done, which they haven't done in the eight years they've been in government, and have not seen as appropriate in the eight years they've been in government. I am concerned that we should be able to learn more about the impact of the measures that we are implementing. One of the effects of the policy that has been pursued is that there is a gap of 8 million tonnes – 8 million tonnes have been lost and the result of the policy that has been pursued in the last eight years and that they are behind. What we need now is not knowing and starting a work of analysis into the draft budget. What I want to know is the effect of the final budget, which is finally adopted in December. It's important. That's what we got with the Environment Directorate's report, which I think is thorough and good. It points out what needs to be done, and it also makes proposals on how to get through actions – because what we need is no more analysis. What we need are measures, and then we have to measure the impact of those measures to know what to do in next year's budget. That is why I am pleased that we now have an agreement, and a majority, with the government that we are getting an update of the DG's report every year, as a basis for the budgetary work that Stortinget is going to do. It is the will of action that will be crucial for achieving the objectives, and that will also be crucial for how far we are going when we are going to achieve the climate targets by 2020. Then it's a completely different thing to put in place a climate law. A climate law is a comprehensive work, but it may be the most important tool we have to ensure that climate policy is thoroughly implemented over time, including by a changing majority in the Stortinget. Therefore, the Climate Act is crucial in the next round. On the left, we are pleased that this is now about taking action in the budget, and about bringing about the impact of the measures – we get them through the Environment Directorate – and then it is a systematic effort to put in place a climate law, which can ensure that the Storting and the country take their responsibilities, not only in the next few years, but in decades to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2851	I have to say that I am getting really tired of the fact that every time someone from the opposition makes a proposal, the Progress Party asks why this proposal has not been promoted before. It can't be that when we're sitting on the Stortinget, we're going to be castrated throughout the big time just because we've been in government someday. I intend to use Oskar J. Grimstad's words against him at a later stage – when the voters throw the Advance Party at the head of the government. But it won't be today. I'm just going to say the following: we need a climate budget. We need a climate budget, because, as the debate we had earlier today on Utsira showed us, representatives of the parties Left, Christian People's Party, SV, the Green Party and the Labour Party – all of them – have stood here and said that we hear the government say that the climate agreement is firm and that we need to strengthen the climate agreement, as the government parties say, but we do not see it in the practical policy and in the decisions that are taken. I want to ask the question of Tine Sundtoft – and I intend to do that in the exchange of lines, she just has to prepare for it. Emissions rose in 2013. Will the emissions of CO2 go up or down to next year, in other words in 2014 – during the year we're in now? Can she answer that? If I ask her how she intends to achieve the objectives, and what means she intends to implement in order to achieve the 2020 climate objectives, can she answer to me which of the proposals contained in the DG's proposals on things should be implemented if we are to be able to be close to achieving the target? Then Tine Sundtoft does not have a document anywhere that says which of the different objectives are to be achieved. That is why I believe it is a betrayal of the climate agreement when the Left will not now be able to support this proposal, which would have been given a majority, because then the government in this year's budget, i.e. in the draft budget due in October, would have to present a plan for how they intend to achieve the objectives. So I am asking the question of Tine Sundtoft: what kind of impact, what effect does the budget adopted for 2014 have on climate change emissions in Norway – are they going to go up, or are they going down? We know they have to go down. If we look at the different grips the government has done, it is not so strange – and I ask again Oskar J. Grimstad: Why do we have a special need for this now? Well, we have a special need to get a climate budget in a situation where we've got climate negators in the government. This is the first time we've had climate negators in a government that controls the country's climate policy. The Progress Party is therefore in the positions of Minister for Transport and as Minister for Oil and Energy, which are the two largest emissions departments. I have tried to ask Tord Lien the following simple questions in writing: Does Tord Lien see it as his constitutional responsibility to work to reduce CO2 emissions in the oil sector? On that question, it's completely impossible to get the man to give an answer that means anything. He can't answer yes to that. That's when we have a problem. If, by sectoral minister, Tine Sundtoft does not assume its responsibilities, and Tine Sundtoft will remain fully in place and defend a situation – as happened in 2013 – where emissions are rising, it does not seem that any of the other ministers are doing their part in bringing emissions down. Then we don't get to the goal. The Minister of Industry received the decision of the Committee on Simplification and stated that the simplification could lead to the setting of environmental requirements in public procurement – contrary to what Nikolai Astrup has said when he spoke about the importance of public procurement – to impose environmental requirements and climate requirements in order to reduce climate emissions. The CO2 strategy, which we were promised during the presentation of the revised national budget, has been pushed to the State budget for the autumn. That means we're still pushing on what to do in terms of carbon capture and storage. We treated Utsira earlier today. We have figures that show that road traffic is increasing to, for example: The Stavanger area, without the Minister of Transport being out and saying anything about what action he intends to do on the part of the government to do something about this. We need a climate budget to know if we are in the vicinity of achieving the climate agreement and the decisions the Stortinget has taken. The majority of this room is going to go in for today, is enough research work, waiting time, appropriateness assessments and pushing things out in time. I had not expected anything else from the government parties, but I had expected another one from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2875	One of the less interesting aspects of being elected to the Storting is to hear parties that have been in position and that have been in opposition, trying to read each other the text of a climate policy that they have agreed to this year and year in, and that they share responsibility for the results of. But the world is sneaking forward, and one of the signs we're looking at is the excellent proposal of representatives Eidsvoll Holmås and Serigstad Valen in SV, about a climate budget. Of course, the representative Eidsvoll Holmås is right in saying that this is an absolutely necessary exercise to get a certain overview of how the effect of Norwegian climate policy actually unfolds, so it does not come as the Christmas evening on the ring when you happen to ask the Environment Directorate for a report. Whether the representative Eidsvoll Holmås gets answers to his questions to the Council of State Sundtoft on how the development of emissions is going to be on your sector and sector date, I look forward to it with interest. I have asked that question a couple of times – three times to the Council of State already, without getting an answer. The proposal for a climate budget is very constructive, absolutely necessary, and as the representatives of both the Christian People's Party and the Central Party have pointed out, absolutely necessary elements in and a very constructive basis for what must become a Norwegian climate law. Then, of course, we all agree that it should not be a postponement, but rather an incentive to a climate law. That's why the signals we got referred to here, that the government might want to look at this in the context of its assessment of climate law, at least a positive signal. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that a climate budget – contrary to what we get the impression in the letter from the government council Sundtoft – does not cover important elements of the UK climate law. A climate budget just builds up under it. The proposal for a climate budget will show how government priorities in the state budget can be expected to affect climate budgets, but this is not necessarily the same as the regular reporting to Parliament on the state of emissions reduction as a climate law – at least according to the British model – will provide, and will force a completely different seriousness in the follow-up to climate action. Nor does a climate budget as proposed imply that climate objectives become legally binding. One will still be at the level at which the Stortinget has been found for several periods, namely that there is an intention to implement something, and one will see how it works, and most often, at least so far, not all the world has been doing well, giving rise to emissions in Norway. What is very important about climate legislation, and which at least a climate budget could contribute to, is moving towards sectoral targets for emissions reduction. As long as Norway does not have targets for each sector that is committed to those responsible for that sector, we will not have an effective climate policy in any sector — or nationally. At least here, a climate budget will help to make the situation more visible. Finally, I would like to say that I am startled at the Left, which allows this possibility of concrete progress to go away, a move that would force the government to report in a way that it has so far expressly avoided in debate after debate here in the United Kingdom. This would make a difference, and I hope that at the next opportunity – and there will be more opportunities – the Left will get on a more offensive line in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2891	I am pleased that representatives from the previous government are now concerned that not only are targets to be set, but that we should also ensure that they are achieved. This government is concerned with cutting greenhouse gas emissions, and we're concerned that we know how we're doing. This year, several important reports have emerged that constitute a serious backbone of climate policy. We received two interim reports from the United Nations Panel on Climate Change’s fifth main report at Easter times. They draw a clear picture of the challenges. Another central report is the so-called gap report that I ordered from the Environment Directorate. It showed that it's important to figure out the status in this way in order to know how we're dealing with it. I have now ordered a new report to show the way to the low-carbon society by 2030 and 2050. 2020 is just an intermediate station. We're going to be a low-carbon society by 2050. I therefore fully agree with the rapporteurs that it is important to have looked at the attachment in the long term, while at the same time ensuring that we take the right decisions today. We did not exactly get to the table after the previous government in terms of national emission reductions and the 2020 target, as demonstrated by the report we received from the Environment Directorate. The government has said that the climate agreement is firm and that it should be strengthened. In this context, of course, the government is concerned to know how we are going to meet our climate goals in the short, medium and long term. Norway reports annually to the United Nations Climate Secretariat on how we comply with our obligations under the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol. Every four years we deliver a main report, every two years we deliver an update report, and every year we deliver greenhouse gas accounts. We are also talking about greenhouse gas accounts and emissions developments in the budget proposal. In addition, an overview is provided of the impact on greenhouse gas emissions of large government investments. Emission projections are published every two years and new projections will be presented in the 2015 national budget. This is an important part of how Norway responds to its obligations, and it is also important for us and the global climate that other countries do this. There is a need for sound reporting on emissions development, on the climate measures in place and planned, as well as knowledge of the impact of different measures and instruments. The government is now working on several major processes that are closely linked to the proposal under consideration. Firstly, we are working on assessing a climate law. Secondly, we are working on a new emissions obligation for Norway for the period after 2020. This commitment will be in the form of a greenhouse gas budget and will be presented in the first quarter of 2015. A climate budget will be part of how Norway will follow up on its emission modesI, but it needs to be seen in the context of what emission targets we will have after 2020, and what other systems we need to have to meet our targets. Therefore, adopting a new climate budget system without seeing these processes in the context is not sensible. We're now in the middle of an extensive work on multiple pieces of puzzles that are interdependent and that have to be connected. I'm concerned that we don't do things piece by piece and division. I believe that one in the context of the work on climate legislation and a new Norwegian commitment should also consider further how to monitor and monitor the achievement of the objectives of climate policy, and whether we need new action.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2904	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2907	One crucial reason why I think it is important to promote this proposal is that it could ensure that we can say with some certainty whether we are moving in the right direction or in the wrong direction. It would have been good if we had had a majority for that, but I record that the Council of State, and unfortunately also the Left, is against it. On several occasions, the Council of State has said – and repeats – that she believes she did not come to the table. During the last period when the right-hand side of power increased greenhouse gas emissions. In the period we red-green had the power, they went down. I happily admit that they should have gone more down, but during this short period that the right-hand side has now sat, they have at least not gone down further. My question is: will the Council of State say that emissions are most likely to rise in the year we are in, or will she say it is most likely – with the policy put forward by the government in its budget – that they are going down?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2916	We have said that we should strengthen the climate agreement, and we are in the process of strengthening the climate agreement. We've invested more in rail, we've invested more in public transport, and we've allocated 100 million. kr for research on carbon capture and storage. We have now made proposals to increase the climate technology fund, we are working with the Green Tax Commission, we are doing concrete things now that will reduce emissions over time. We know that the Environment DG's report contains projections taking into account adopted policies. From 2012 to 2013, emissions increased by 0,1 tonnes, i.e. by 0,2 pst. It's kind of stable from 2012 to 2013. The things we have presented now are expected to reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2921	I understand that the climate and environment minister says that the emissions are going to fall in the long term and that she is working on it, but that's not what I asked for. What I was asking about was simply: will the Council of State view it as most likely that, as a result of government policy, emissions will fall into the year we are in, or will it view it as most likely that emissions will rise? Or does she not have a bearing, and in that case – is there really reason in itself enough to say that there would have been a need for a climate budget, as we have suggested?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2926	Now the representative Holmås knows well that it was this government who asked for the gap report from the Environment Directorate to get a status to know how we were going when we took responsibility. There was nothing the previous government was very busy getting there. When we say that we are strengthening the climate agreement, and that we are working against the low-carbon society in 2050, we expect emissions to decrease. If they go down just in 2014, I can't give an exact answer right now, but we're going to follow it up with regular reports from the Environment Directorate, and we've set up a policy to bring down emissions. 2020 is an important objective, but the main objective is the low-emission society by 2050. We have communicated that from day one, when we assumed this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2931	As far as I can remember and hear, the current government promises words to others exactly the same as the previous government promised. They take more or less exactly the same measures and have exactly the same refusal against concrete, obligatory figures on how much is to be emitted. We have also not received any figures from the Council of State for how much is to be released anywhere for some time. Can the Council of State first explain what it is the government will do that makes a climate budget unnecessary, and secondly what the government will do that will give concrete emission cuts, with figures in some interesting future?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2936	We have said that our main goal is to change society towards a low-carbon society. To find out what the situation was like when we took over, we got the gap report from the Environment Directorate, which says we're missing 8 million tons. We also know very well which sectors are releasing what. We know that we have to reduce transport. That is why we are spending more on public transport, more on rail. We know that we need to reduce emissions in construction. That is why we are working on measures to obtain investment in construction and phased out oil firing in construction. It is this government that has proposed to increase the allocation of the Climate Technology Fund, so that more enterprises can receive support to re-convert their production, so that one emits less. We're going into the sector by sector to come up with measures to change this society.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2941	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2946	I think that review the Council of State had of this, showed that here it is measured very much. If there's one thing we have, it's knowledge. We have knowledge of what works when it comes to reducing emissions. What we need to have in place is the willingness to implement the measures. That is where the main problem lies. Although the proposal of Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås was adopted, what budget are you going to consider? Is that the draft budget that the red-greens presented last autumn? Is that the proposed amendment, as proposed by the new government, or is it the final budget adopted where the actual environmental measures were put in place? Because that's what we need to figure out, how much reduction did we get by increasing the mineral oil tax by over 50 cents? We need to figure that out, but you wouldn't have found out when this was presented in the autumn. You'll find that out afterwards to see the effect, and we need that. So getting an update of the reports of the Environment Directorate is absolutely necessary in order to have a basis for creating budgets. It is a necessary, good basis for making budgets, a need to know what measures must be taken to achieve the necessary objectives. What is proposed here sets in motion an enormous amount of work on investigations and projections on a budget that will ultimately not be adopted in the form it is presented. Then it is much better to get a systematic feedback on the effect. The presentation by the Environment Directorate — and all credit to the government who asked for it — is a good basis of work to know what needs to be done. Then the next big step is to get a climate law, and a climate law is something quite different from what is proposed here. A climate law is about creating a legal framework that ensures that a changing majority achieves emission reductions for a long time in the future and that a person is given a security to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2955	I hope no more drawing. For I have some dinner guests at home waiting to celebrate my birthday, and I have no exchange! But first to the representative Elvesuen, who makes a very significant point, namely that there are measures that reduce emissions, not budgets. There are measures that need to be implemented. The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås says that climate budgets are important now that there are «climate deniers» in the government. Well, let me remind you that it's the government as a college that has said that the climate agreement should be reinforced, and so it's an agreement that the then opposition had to drag the red-green government after the hair to get it on. So there was a maximum of what the previous government was willing to do, and now it's going to be strengthened. It is absolutely necessary, but it says something about the difference in life and learning from the representative Holmås. If it is the case that the emissions in 2013 went up, as the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is about, it is precisely his government that has to take responsibility for that point. Let me also remind you that it was the current government that just ordered the Environment Directorate's report, where the red-green climate heritage was revealed. So it was not the previous government that was interested in our situation, but the new government that was interested in our situation. I believe that regardless of how the conclusion is reached in the assessment of the appropriateness of a climate law, it is absolutely necessary that we strengthen the climate agreement and introduce measures to reduce emissions. The new government is doing well. That is, after all, the most important thing in this case, and I hope that the opposition also agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2972	I have sometimes participated in the Questionnaire here and asked the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment if she has an overview of climate change mitigation measures proposed by this government. I've been told that no, you don't, because it's up to the individual state councils in their fields. Well, then I checked a little in my areas, because I am responsible for the administration now. One is public procurement. I had probably expected that a government from the Advance Party and the Right had understood the market mechanisms, namely that you as a big buyer can make a big impact. To my surprise, I see that the government has now planned to eliminate environmental requirements in the Public Procurement Regulation. It will not promote climate action and key climate adaptations in the supplier industry and in all possible contractual relationships that the public has. The second is the municipal sector, which is huge. The climate agreement states that municipalities should play an important role in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. I then asked the government during the treatment of the municipal bill: what has the government done in relation to the municipal economy in this respect, so that the municipalities can take part in the climate responsibility they have? The answer from the municipal minister is not a penny. Not a penny has been spent on the entire municipal sector. The municipalities and county councils have many things they need to do. As the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment just said in his speech, it is for example. the need to phase out oil firing. We have just given up our position on the municipal bill, and in it SV has proposed that we set up a loan scheme to phase out fossil oil firing in municipal and county buildings. Is there any support for this? No, and at least not from the government. We have also proposed a funding mechanism for local climate action to support municipalities and county municipalities in implementing processes for climate-friendly conversion. It's absolutely necessary to get this done. But the government answers no. The sector by sector does not deliver, and when we ask the climate minister what she wants to do, she points back to the different sectors, which have done nothing. Now the representative Astrup was up here and said we have to put the concrete things on the table and see what it is. Yes, these are at least three suggestions. Public procurement – using purchasing power to produce climate-friendly and environmentally friendly solutions – is the introduction of a system to phase out fossil oil combustion, and it is supporting municipalities in their important role in reducing climate emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2983	There's something called steering after the cooling water strip. It is a very good term for the climate policy that has been in place in Norway for the last eight years and is still being pursued. It assumes that you have some big goals and claim that you want to achieve those goals, and to your surprise, you find that you don't reach them. This government has an interesting reference basis in that it has a lot to do with business, much to boost business. What characterises the way you work in large and small tasks and projects in business? Well, it's that you set goals, you set targets, you report, and you adjust to get where you're going, whether it's Statoil, State Power or any small four-man enterprise. What do we get from the current government? Yes, we have a rather frequent repeated spell that says: the climate agreement needs to be reinforced. What in the world does that mean? How many tons is that? That's what matters. We will have effective measures in transport. We're getting more community investment, yeah. But we also get multiple roads. What is the net result in terms of its greenhouse gas emissions? Renewable energy production is being pursued in Norway. There is also a strong commitment to continuing oil activities. What's going to be its net emission result? What we will continue to demand from the Government and the Government is: Can we get and will we get concrete goals at sector level that the government has to deal with year after year whether they deliver on or not, so that we can summarize the objectives and see if there is any likelihood that Norway will achieve its overall commitments in relation to the climate agreement and Kyoto 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e2994	The representative Holmås says he is being “seriously tired of” the criticism that they did nothing when they sat in government, for an entire eight years. I'm getting really tired of hearing SV talk about the Progress Party as «climate negators». The representative may not like that his own government is the reason we're 8 million tons behind the target. But that's a fact. The representative may not like that the government he was part of, led – fortunately – an active petroleum policy with a record in the number of extraction permits. But that's a fact. It probably annoys the representative that this government has said that we should strengthen the climate agreement and pursue a more offensive climate policy than his own government did. But that's a fact. That the representative is impatient after a new offensive climate policy is understandable. It must have been frustrating to sit in a government for eight years that you obviously disagreed with. But I can reassure the representative Holmås that although the government is busy with good processes to achieve our climate goals, it does not mean that it stays with the processes and investigations. A government with ‘climate negators’, called the Progress Party, implements several actions. We're doing a huge investment on the railway, it cuts emissions. We're going to spend $76 million. kr more than the red-green government on walking and cycling routes, it cuts emissions. We focus more on climate technology, it will cut emissions. The government is now working on the design of tax deductions forinvestments, it will also cut emissions. We're going to phase out oil boilers in State Building properties by 2016, it'll cut emissions. And we're running a green tax shift, it'll cut emissions. I could still, but the point is that while SV is now outside the government and launches climate action after climate action they did not get in place themselves, the Right Party and the Advance Party are in government and do the job while we can. Of course, as the representative Holmås says, we should not castrate the former government party from launching a new policy in opposition, but it helps with some credibility to be taken seriously. Just like that, SV is missing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3013	I must say that I am a little surprised at the direction this debate has taken, both that it is so high temperature, and that there are so many accusations through the room about who came to the covered table and not. I just feel that the level of this debate is not very constructive. It's not going anywhere. I thought that all of us sitting in this room were busy getting results, getting the greenhouse gas emissions down. I thought we agreed. After the debate we have now, I'm not sure if we actually agree on it, because there are so many accusations flying through the room. Part of us believe that a climate budget is the right tool. I believe it. Then I notice that there are others who think you need to have far more assessments before you can start going into such processes. Okay, okay, that's not the majority for what I want – okay. But I don't make accusations to others for that reason. There's a will and an impatience in this hall that I thought was positive, but once again I'm not sure where it's carrying the farm. The climate crisis is the biggest challenge we face, and unless we in this room are able to have more constructive debates than the one we now have, I become uncertain about what the future will be like. I'm worried that we can't get an international climate agreement in place. I don't get any less worried after the round we have here in the hall now, because it's obviously not a will of the Storting to come to an agreement and to be constructive to each other. I hope we can sharpen up a little bit in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3024	The climate negators have come into government, says SV, and that is the difference between the previous government. That's possible they're right. Yes, we are in government, but if we use the label «climate negators», the SV label must be «climate hysterics». Because we have marked a radical change in SV's commitment to relaunching the climate and environmental debate, especially after the Environment Party Dei Green and Rasmus Hansson took the seat here on the Stortinget. But unlike the climate hysterists in SV, when they put in government, we have said yes, we need to strengthen the climate agreement. In it is a promise that we intend to keep. The climate challenges and the UN climate report were also known to the previous government, so there is nothing new that has come, except that we ordered from the Environment Directorate a configuration of where we are compared to the target. We didn't experience that with the previous government, we didn't feel that SV asked when they put them in position. We have a government council here from the Ministry of Environment – or the Ministry of Climate and Environment, which it is called today – that pointed to a number of new measures. This government has been sitting for eight months, while the previous one has been sitting for eight years. So we're going to deliver more in eight months than the previous government, the red-green government, managed in eight years. There is too much to ask for. I feel sure of one thing, and that is that the Progress Party will deliver its Councils, as the representative Bru was in – on the road, in the petroleum sector, in agriculture and not least in the justice sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3035	I am the first to praise – and I have done so on several occasions as well – the Minister for Climate and Environment to do the job of ordering a report that says where we are and what the Directorate for the Environment suggests we have to do. I've done that on several occasions, and I like to repeat that rose. But we must not pretend it's the only time we've got a recipe list on the Stortinget table where we've been told what kind of possible grip it is that we can take. That's when I think it's absolutely necessary that we take a grip. Because we cannot have the climate minister standing on the voice of the Stortinge saying: I cannot answer exactly what the greenhouse gas emissions will be next year, I cannot even answer whether it is most likely that greenhouse gas emissions will rise or fall. It is therefore the case that greenhouse gas emissions must decrease every year in the years that come, if we are to achieve the 2020 target. I'm the first to say that it's very good that the government comes into place with a renewable energy and energy efficiency scheme. And then we'll see what happens to the harvest. I'm the first to say that more efforts on public transport and more investment on bicycles are positive things, but at the same time it's up to a road investment of 40 billion. kr into Oslo, which is going to increase capacity and potentially blow up the climate deal and the climate targets are going to completely collapse together. We know that if the Right and Advance Party had got what they wanted, we would have oil drilling outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja now at the top – and then Oskar Grimstad from the Great Hall – that would have led to increased emissions compared to what we see in the North. That's why I say that when the Storting meets to make the big decisions, it doesn't just keep pointing to the list of the positive measures we're doing, what contributes positively to the climate, if they're hit in the heels of a bunch of decisions that contribute to increased emissions. As for the gap report, I would like to say one thing to Tina Bru, because Tina Bru claims that it is very good that the gap report came, and I have said that I agree. But if she's read the whole gap report, you'll see that there's some credit for the decisions and decisions that were taken, that have actually reduced climate emissions and that, overall, during the period we set, climate emissions went down, both in relation to forecasts and in relation to actual figures. One of them was the sales obligation for biodiesel, a decision that SV has strongly endorsed, another, for which the climate minister himself has given particular commendation, is the conversion of car charges, which has led to a significant decrease in CO2 emissions. These are things that SV has been driving through and along with the rest of the red-green government, and it has produced results. Now we expect to see what kind of results the government intends to present, and then we need a plan, not just words and updates about where we stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3051	I have been sitting and listening to the last part of the debate, and I have to say that there are a lot of words, there are some spells. That is the word on the climate budget, that is, the climate agreement is to be strengthened, there is climate law with carbon budgets. It's at all a discussion that I think it's getting little out of, I'm sorry I'm saying it -- a discussion that's the most important one we're facing because the carbon dioxide content in the atmosphere is increasing so dangerously quickly that it's going to affect all life on Earth. And when we talk about this topic, it's now better scientifically documented that climate change is man-made than cigarette smoking is health-threatening. And then what's the problem with CO2? Well, it's CO2 that comes from black carbon, it's simply exhaust. I think that the size of the discussions in the future should be more precise that the CO2 that comes from renewable carbon, that is, green carbon, is not the problem. On the contrary, it is part of the solution to use renewable green carbon. The problem is the enormous consumption of black carbon, that is fossil carbon. One has to distinguish fossil carbon from renewable carbon. The main problem today is that the profitability of businesses and individuals using fossil carbon is very high, and the profitability of producing, processing and using renewable carbon is very low. And when we live with capitalism, we don't get to do anything about this without this market being corrected, in the opinion of the Center Party, by adding CO2 taxes to the fossil carbon, and using some of the CO2 charges to stimulate the economical use of renewable carbon. There must be a cross of thought for more than the Center Party that at a time when you've never talked more about climate, the profitability of operating with the green renewable carbon has never been worse than today. This goes completely wrong if we don't change the basic economic context. I would challenge the Council of State to answer whether she agrees with what Prime Minister Solberg said several years ago, that correcting market forces is a good right-wing policy. Then the current Prime Minister said that it was right that the representative then said that someone would use the CO2 taxes on fossil carbon to economically stimulate the renewable carbon. Does the current Minister for the Environment agree with this view?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3080	I am also a little surprised by the intense temperature of this debate – some of the same temperature I have felt for almost eight months. We have said that we should strengthen the climate agreement, and I thought in my naivety that when someone has made a settlement, one has put the dispute a little away and agrees that one should do things together. I think it is important that we also agree on what is our most important job, namely to reach a low-carbon society by 2050. It requires an enormous transformation of us as individuals, of business and of the public. To get that understanding, I think we would have been more serviced with a little less temperature and maybe to be a little more constructive. To Karin Andersen: The EU will now bring new procurement directives that will apply to Norway through the EEA Agreement, and they will also provide a good basis for reviewing procurement policy. And I totally agree, the public trades for $400 billion. kr every year, and what we do there, is very important. So we're going to follow up. Then I fully agree with the representative Lundtigen, and that is what the United Nations Climate Panel says very clearly: Forest is part of the solution both because it binds carbon, and because we need more over to the green carbon. Then we have ordered a new report from the Environment Directorate, which should also be constructive towards the low-emission society by 2030. And along the way, we are developing concrete policies to achieve this. We're already reporting a lot on what we're doing. We report to the United Nations every four years. We also have a main report, last delivered on 10 March this year, on our climate policy on international commitments, on national instruments and on activities in which we participate. We have the SSB that also provides annual emission accounts. Greenhouse gas accounts and emissions trends are referred to annually in the Ministry of Climate and Environment’s budget proposal, and the Ministry of Finance publishes air emissions projections every two years. So it's not like we're not reporting anything at all. I think that if we're going to get to the conversion we're totally dependent on, we might want to be more concerned about what instruments we're missing to get to that conversion. And to Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås: It's not the roads that pollute now, it's the cars that run on the roads, and here we add up to a charging policy that rewards cars that emit the least possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3097	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Case No. 11 has been dealt with earlier, and the Storting will proceed to case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3115	I'm not responsible for this interpellation starting at noon. 19.10 on a summer day. Some representatives may want to have dinner and one with the other, but we have to take the time for this important topic. We often argue in this room about who gives the most money to the railways. It's all right, but today I want us to discuss how we spend our money and how the system works. It is also an important debate. In recent years, rail appropriations have increased sharply. There's been a whole big deal on it, although I have to admit that we in the left have wanted it to go even faster. And we would think that a large increase in appropriations would also lead to a large growth for railway contractors. It did, at least in the beginning. As appropriations have increased, several foreign entrepreneurs have established themselves on the Norwegian market. As appropriations have increased, Norwegian engineers and contractors have started their own railway company. They have used their skills and become entrepreneurs. That's good, too. But this rate has stopped. At the same time as the appropriations have increased sharply, the same railway contractors have had to reduce or seek bankruptcy. This shows that there is a bit of a fuss about railway policy. During the budget procedure in the autumn, the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party increased the railway budget by nearly 1 billion. kr. Almost everything went to maintenance – of course. We know that delays are largely due to faults on signalling systems, materials and tracks. A better maintenance of the rail network provides better predictability for everyone taking the train. It gives better predictability for the baby mother who is going from work in Sandvika to pick up children in the nursery in Tønsberg. It gives better predictability to the mining industry in Kiruna, which is to extract ores from Narvik. Therefore, many entrepreneurs have also invested in maintenance and investment in machinery to maintain the Norwegian railway network. These machines I'm coming back to. In addition to what I have mentioned, over the next few years large sums have been allocated to large investment projects on the railways. We all know the big expansions from this town towards Hönefoss, Skien, Halden and Lillehammer. This room has also planned major improvements in Rogaland, Northern Ireland, Trøndelag and Hordaland in the coming years. Testing and installation of new and better signalling systems is also under way throughout the country. All of this is good. All of this is necessary. But when the plans for the railway have never been bigger, and we're increasing the appropriations for maintenance, it's strange that the contractors are struggling. I would call that the paradox of railway policy. I've had meetings with several contractors in the railway sector. One could tell me that in 2013, they had to cut down from 180 to 125 employees in a very short time. It's a violent downfall for any company. There's an even more violent downfall for a company in a business that knows there's more need for them in the years to come. I have also met foreign actors who have established themselves in the Norwegian market during the large growth period. These are important. They can make major expansions and, in the meantime, can take less of a job in Norway and become familiar with strangernose circumstances. The sad thing is that they have unfortunately become more familiar with strange conditions than with the railway. Big companies like Strukton, Balfour Beatty and Spitzke have moved out. That's too bad. To get the biggest investments in the years that are coming, we depend on being attractive to the big players. But why do they cancel out? Why do they have to sit down, we have to ask ourselves. I think there's three relationships we need to deal with. Firstly, it seems that the system is often in the way of getting a more efficient public sector. In particular, the system prevents the positive contribution of private actors to the value creation and construction of infrastructure or welfare. We know all the similar issues of child protection and care, where, through unforeseeable and rigid legislation, the public has in practice given users a worse offer. We also see the trend in the railway sector. It's sad that it's like that. Unfortunately, the railway station appears to be an unprofessional order. Whether it is due to regulation or lack of procedures, I am not sure, but I am sure that the Council of State together with the Left must and will get to clean up this. Several contractors report sudden and unannounced tenders. The offers come on sections or entire sections, such as whole packages or pieces and divided. Nor is there any automation in what the Railway Agency itself does, and what they put forward for tender. Nor has the Railway Agency announced an open public strategy on what the Railway Agency should have in terms of competence and machinery itself and what others can offer. Secondly, when increased appropriations do not lead to increased speed in the work on more and better railways, there is a problem of trust between citizens and politics, between citizens and the public sector. An ever-increasing use of costs in the public sector must lead to better services and infrastructure for its citizens. The Council of State and the Left agree that no money has been used, but projects implemented that are important in the transport policy for people and for business. The large growth in public sector red tape in general and – in this case – the railway system must be specifically justified and sensible. This must lead to more railways being built smarter and faster. This must lead to more railways being maintained. If we can't point that out, trust in the public sector is getting weaker, without Norwegian infrastructure getting better. Thirdly, when the public has a vague strategy about what to do, it leads to a clumsy use of money, both private and public. It would therefore have been nice if the Council of State explained what the Railway Agency's strategy for self-production is, so that it would be easier for the actors to understand when working with a competitor and when working with a customer. It would also be nice to know if the Council of State wants the public to do large-scale self-production, and in that case what kind and how. We know that the Railway Agency has plans to invest in machines for 2 billion. kr in the current period according to the National Transport Plan, but we do not know what kind of machinery. Now we come back to the machines I mentioned at the beginning. While the Railway Agency is planning billions of investments in machinery, several of the private contractors have spent millions buying the same machines as the Railway Agency is planning to buy. Several of the private parties report that they have invested a great deal in new and adapted equipment during the period ahead in order to take on the tasks expected in the years ahead. In the worst case, the machines stand unused and are only equity and write-down objects. All of this and more shows that there is a need for a rail reform – quickly. The left wants the foundation for this to be laid as early as possible. The aim of the rail reform must not be privatisation, but predictable and sensible management of the rail sector for the benefit of commuters, builders, freight and climate. So this is the back door because I've invited the Minister of Transport here today – it's not to extend the day. But I think this is an important debate. I would like to discuss what we can do to use our money wisely so that we get the most maintenance out of this money, and what we can do to ensure that the private operators get the best possible framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3159	The interpellant addresses a very important theme that has engaged the government and the majority of the population significantly in the last eight months. I very much agree with many of the problem descriptions that are being addressed. They also harmonize with problem descriptions taken up by the opposition in the previous period, which I have strong intentions to do a lot with during the years we have ahead of us. Actually, we've already started doing a lot of things, and I'm going to get into it. This government is paying considerable attention to the railways. Together with the Left and Christian People's Party, we saw a significant increase in the appropriations for the current year's budget. But as the representative points out, this isn't just about how much money you should give, it's also about how we run the railway, how we run the investments, and what incentives and structures are in place. We have taken faster decisions to decide where freight terminals should be located, precisely because it is important to have progressed in the processes and not to delay them for many years, as planned, pending a freight analysis. If a few more goods are to be transferred to the railway and away from the road, an efficient terminal must have low-cost, efficient operation and foreseeable uptime. It is an essential part of the cost structures of the railway sector. It's not just the operation of locomotives and wagons, it's also the end points. We have improved the route offer a number of places, and we have suggested that we both double the number of departures on Sørlandsbanen and extend the shuttle on Trønderbanen – as early as December 2014. I think we should also have a majority for that in Stortinget without any particular problem. Then we've started discussions on a more formal basis when it comes to connecting us to the rest of the world. This applies in particular to couplings – naturally – via Sweden, to look at Gothenburg-Stockholm, up in Trøndelag and, not least, in Ofotbanen. Here it is important that we coordinate investments, so that benefits are actually realised in a coordinated way between countries, and that we do not plan for each one of us. Then it is important in this work, when we discuss how much money is allocated, that we also see that there is a difference between investing in new routes – which may be important in some places – or spending time and money on maintaining what you already have. Not least for freight, maintenance is likely to be more important than building new routes, because it is about uptime, and it is about predictability of getting the goods out when to go. If it takes 15 minutes more or less, it's not that important as long as you come when you've promised. Maintenance is also important, because it's about punctuality for commuters. It's not many years since there was chaos around Oslo S for a long time because overhead lines and other things didn't work as they were supposed to. This makes fewer people take the railway, simply because it can't be guaranteed that they come to work in time. The punctuality of the NSB is now very good in many places. Especially in the Oslo area, it's been very good for the last six months. Let's hope it lasts. Our maintenance thoughts are at least that there should be an important contribution to this. We work to get a better market for the entrepreneurs. There are several reasons why it has not been good enough. Some of them I think might be ideological. Something is simply about admissibility, simply because when the Railway Agency does not have so much money to grant for maintenance, they do not have so many opportunities to contract. These appropriations have varied slightly up and down. It's very nice the years they get a plus, but the years they have to cut very much, it creates a very difficult situation for the private entrepreneurs in the market. We're aiming to do something about this. That's why it's natural that I spend a little time looking at last year, 2013, because it shows the problems created for private entrepreneurs. The railway works purchased much less maintenance work in the market in 2013 because they received lower appropriations for operation and maintenance. This led to bankruptcies, resulting in leavencies and terminations in the supplier market, and to an increase in infrastructure maintenance delays. Thus, in the 2013 budget, the appropriations from Stortinget for operation and maintenance were reduced by 170 million. kr. It's a relatively small amount, but nevertheless big enough for the contractors it's going down. What is not seen by such an overall figure is that the Railway Agency’s operating budget for 2013 was increased by 266 million. NOK, because you had a lag on out-of-date rear systems that had to be updated. It's a job that the railway works do a lot of themselves. But their maintenance budget was reduced by 436 million. So it's almost half a billion dollars. kr less to the maintenance market. This is noticed when you provide services or tenders to the Railway Agency. The renewal budget was reduced by nearly 1⁄2 billion. NOK, then there was a slight increase in collective maintenance. But it is renewed that many of these can be involved and contribute, contract, plan maintenance and have long-term plans. Thus, the reduction in the level of activity of renewal in 2013 resulted for private entrepreneurs in many of the negative things mentioned here. This government rate significantly. In the government statement, we say that we must: ‘Synchronise the management of the Community’s assets, and thus also the maintenance set-aside, in the annual budgets.’;» And we're going to ‘Start work on obtaining the infrastructure maintenance seat suspension.’ That's why I'm a little proud when I can point out what the government, the Left and the Christian People's Party together have done. So you've cut the renewal by almost one and a half billion. kr in 2013. Then the new government alone increased the budget for renewal by 650 million. kr. Should you be able to avoid increasing the maintenance run, which is now approx. 17.7 B.C.E. kr in the railway sector, you have to have 2.1 billion. kr for renewal in the year to come. Because of the strength we did, this government went from 1.1 billion. NOK to SEK 1.8 billion. kr. There is still an increase in the maintenance maintenance run, but much less than what was planned. It shows the difference between governments and the difference between talk and action. This is also important with regard to the debate that was just concluded and that was about climate policy. It is not only useful to worry about CO2 emissions when the collective offer is not able to provide good enough services for both passenger and freight transport. It is important to ensure positive developments in the supply market. The government believes in competition, and we believe that competition will also strengthen the way money is spent on maintenance and investment in the railway sector. Then it's important that we have predictable priorities. There will also be the infrastructure fund, which the government and the cooperation parties have set up, which is now 30 billion. kr, in. A planned growth in this also means that there is a greater degree of predictability of how much money the Railway Agency has for these purposes in the future. It is important that those appropriations do not fluctuate from year to year, but that they have a steady, predictable growth. It is then possible for the Railway Agency to plan better and for the contractors to invest in equipment, so that it is known that the equipment can actually be used year after year, instead of one year to invest a lot in equipment that is unused next year. It's a bad business economy and a bad social economy. The existence of an efficient supply market is crucial for competitive outsourcing. We have informed the Railway Agency that they must be involved and contribute to this. At the Railway Station they are now in the process of developing a new supplier strategy in the field of operation and maintenance. It's in line with what the interpellant is also concerned about. I want to follow this up, and I expect a new supplier strategy to help the Railway Agency communicate better and more effectively with its supplier market, and that they will experience that the Railway Agency will become more predictable when ordering operations and maintenance services. We've spent a lot of time on both etat management meetings and in more informal conversations when we meet people who work in the railway. I think they're taking the signals very clearly. At the same time, there are some premises that must also be provided, because it is not necessarily effective for the state to buy services if you have only one supplier in the private market. We must be able to stimulate more suppliers and that there are more professional environments. This is achieved in the long term by putting out contracts for tenders, so this market can also be developed gradually. But looking back on history, there is no doubt that there are enough companies — Norwegian and foreign — that are competent and willing to deliver if they only get a chance to compete and it is predictable that the market will work over time. Efficient maintenance of railway infrastructure is also a central theme in our work on rail reform. This will also be mentioned in a separate big message on reform work that I intend to present to the autumn. Appropriations are one thing, the systems are another thing, but together they will be able to give us a more predictable good maintenance strategy and operational strategy on the railway infrastructure. There is a prerequisite for success in both passenger and freight transport in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3215	It's good to see that the Council of State is on the ball. I would like to thank him for his answer. I know that the Council of State is concerned about this, and my goal is to create enough pressure so that we get more progress. We're going to work together well to achieve a better managed rail sector. Something has already been done. The grips that the Council of State mentions with the meetings are good grips, but I think we need more new measures, and something more needs to be done. This interpellation is not just about structure and private actors. Unfortunately, the examples I used instead are good examples of the system preventing us from maintaining our network. For the third consecutive year, the Railway Agency presented an action plan in which the appropriations for maintenance were reduced. This was done despite the fact that the civil parties – or the two in government and the two constructive cooperation parties – were significantly increased from the proposals of the Stoltenberg government. On 18 March, Elisabeth Enger of the Railway Station stated that the maintenance seat run on the Norwegian railway was at least 17 billion. kr. There's a lot of money, but this money is necessary. A well maintained railway network is essential to get more goods on the road, to get more passenger traffic on the road and to increase confidence in Norwegian rail. In this picture, the entrepreneurs clearly have a very important role to play. They are not only providers of machinery and labour, they also have a high level of competence. Several of the private actors report that they have worked on strategies to take more work winter time. That way, we'll have more time to do what needs to be done in summer, in summer. There is more efficient use of labour and machinery. At the same time, the railway works are hanging again, and an excessive proportion of the work is done during the high season. It makes work both more expensive and less efficient. It may also seem that the railway works work better when it is reactive than when it is proactive. It may seem that they are more likely to repair flood damage themselves than to light up to private maintenance of trenches and culverts in advance. As you hear, the industry has several ideas about how to use the maintenance budgets more effectively, so that we get the most out of the money we spend on maintaining the railway. The railways are critical infrastructure for people and business, and the Stortinget has been involved to make it more important. Both climate policy, urban policy and industrial policy point towards it. Then we have to make sure that we are able to take the best possible care of it. I would like to ask a question to the Council of State, and that is: What will the Council of State do to increase maintenance on the Norwegian railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3233	I am very pleased that the theme travels. It is very good to get that support also from Stortinget that this is important, and that a more private player wants to enter the entrepreneurial market. It must be said that my assessment is that we are far from in line with what both the representative Raja and the undersigned want, but then after a period when private operators have not necessarily been the one that you have talked about the most when it comes to performing tasks in the public sector, you have a very large turnaround. There my job will still take a little more time, I'm probably afraid. This is probably also the case when the representative criticises the fact that much of the maintenance work that is now being done is done by the Railway Agency itself – simply because there are processes that have been going on for a while. I have simply made the conscious choice that I do not think it is natural for the Railway Agency to terminate the maintenance tasks they are carrying out or have planned to start, then to postpone them, to put them off for competition or to place them in the contractor market. I think it's important to get the policy adjustment that we set up, gradually, by looking at new assignments in the future and using the system there, while we're not delaying the necessary maintenance tasks that we had already started or were close to starting. Then the representative may disagree with that strategy, but to me it makes sense. It's the whole way to do reform work, you have to consider how many issues you're going to deal with within the system that already exists, and how many issues you might have to put off because you want to deal with them in a new system that might not be in place for a while. There I think we have to try to find a balance where we do not delay things where everyone agrees that the job itself has to be done, but where at the same time we have the pace to change the attitudes and principles underlying future tasks that are done. But with regard to the money that was granted by the government together with the Left and Christian People's Party, they have made an important innovation on the Southland Railway in terms of contact lines. The work on ERTMS has been expanded – i.e. the new signalling systems. Norway has one of the oldest signalling systems in the European context, making it difficult to obtain spare parts. This is why it has been a priority as part of the renewal work. It would have been possible to do a lot on the Drammensbahn, but a repair of the station area – once you had shut things down – allows you to get more money left and can avoid stopping in trains later. There are also some improvements after floods in the Gudbrand valley and elsewhere – especially on the Dovrebahn, which we also thought it was important to get fixed, simply because as long as the situation was as it was, it created delays and thus unforeseeable freight transport. I want us to get more goods onto the railway, not less, and that's why we prioritised what we did. But our course in the future I hope that I have communicated quite clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3252	I want to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. We may also have to be so honest to say that what we're facing right now is not something that has arisen acutely, it's a common legacy we have after many years of neglect. The maintenance of all infrastructure is important, but for the railways it may be even more important because it affects the very core of railway competitiveness. The fact that the railway can guarantee punctuality is referred to as the most important single element in the choice of transport of goods by road and rail. But also for us who are train commuters, punctuality, speed and capacity are important. As a train commuter, I have noticed that the regularity and reliability have become much better in recent years, and that is the end of the time when you could expect the train to be delayed and add a little extra time at the breakfast table before going to the station. Today it is actually so that I have the impression that the train starts a few seconds before the train table. All in all, my little experience as a train commuter is that the NSB and the Railway Agency are far better than their reputation. Every now and then that events occur like the one in Bergen now is to live with, and my impression is that the train commuters are doing it. But it's probably worse for those waiting for a late employee or a delayed container. I want to commend the then State Council of Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and the Railway Agency for the thorough work that was done with the Oslo Tunnel over two summers. Shutting down the Oslo Tunnel for all traffic was a courageous grip that gave the necessary time for extensive rehabilitation work, and it helped. This may be the major challenge of the Railway Agency: all maintenance must take place almost during the running of neighbouring rails. When this is said, there is every reason to take a reinforced hold of the enormous aftermath that is well documented, a job that needs to be carried on with increased strength. There are two aspects that the representative Abid Q. Raja touches on in his interpellation. Both belong to a common heading: predictability. Point 1 is annual appropriations. The Railway Agency, in meeting with the Committee, has placed great emphasis on the importance of having a predictable framework for annual maintenance. Both from the Railway Agency and from other market players, it has been pointed out that it is difficult to establish a large bundle of operators that can undertake bidding when the volume varies from year to year. It's one of the factors that leaves us with few rail maintenance professionals. It must be a good economic backbone to invest in non-continuous machinery, but it is also difficult to maintain qualified labour. The second point to be addressed is the distribution of assignments. The meetings with the actors raised critical questions about how the Railway Agency distributes the tasks between self-production and private operators in the market. It appears that the Railway Agency largely ensures a high level of activity for self-production, while other actors have to take the fluctuations with the unforeseeable consequence. This is actually undermining the industry. This is what the interpellant also takes up in its interpellation, and what the Council of State has in mind in its answer. This will also be one of the main features of the future reorganisation of the railway sector. What should the future railway works be? We'll probably get back to the answer to that. I believe that whatever the organisation, it will be in the interests of the Railway Agency that there is a good professional environment within and outside the Railway Agency that can contribute to maintenance in the years to come. We're going to build a lot of railways, and we're going to maintain the infrastructure better in the years to come. Then we have to make sure that we have competent professional environments at all stages. There is a significant responsibility on the part of the railway undertaking which the dominant party orders from this type of contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3278	The interpellant raises important questions about maintenance and not least the organisation of the railway as a whole. I would also like to thank the Council of States for setting out an offensive attitude to be able to look at the problems of new eyes. Despite increased appropriations, railway operations show that almost daily challenges are associated with a large maintenance set-up. It is about what several have already mentioned: lack of punctuality and closure of sections for shorter or longer periods. This is therefore not least about the everyday life of all train passengers, and the expectations we are about to create for them for the future. Predictability is a keyword that is mentioned, and I would also stress that. In and around the larger cities, public transport will be the most important way of tackling the population growth of the future. Only in Oslo, new numbers show that we can pass 1 million people in just a little over 20 years. This is precisely a requirement for punctuality, but also for large capacity in and out of cities, and it is interesting to note that the railway is actually popular. More and more people choose this solution for their daily transport needs – once it is well and branded. I find it interesting to note that the Progress Party, which in the 1990s believed that rail was a poorly suited passenger service, has now clearly turned around. The government has ambitions to show its power of action by establishing its own road company, and we welcome that. What about the railway company and the organisation of the whole railway sector? The government has invited you to an imaginative event with a deadline of 9 May this year for recording. We're waiting in excitement for what's coming out of it. The Christian People's Party believes it is necessary to convert and renew the railway sector. We've been talking about the renewal of the railway now for almost eight years – now we want to see action, and we want concrete results. As we see it, there are two main steps that should be in place. Firstly, we need a railway company of our own that can provide a better rail service than the railway works do today, and we should be given more competition, both in terms of passenger transport and maintenance. Our view is that today the monopoly of the NSB should be abolished. More than NSB and the Fly train should be able to carry passengers. We have no objection to the fact that Statens Jernväger, Flytogen or other passengers are transported on the Norwegian railway network. From the Christian People's Party we're busy getting a rigging around ownership and operation that allows the NSB to also be an actor that can compete in the same line with other companies. We believe that it should be possible to provide both more and better passenger train services through a conversion and renewal of the sector. We also believe that the reorganisation of the railway sector could create more opportunities to release private maintenance actors. It will enhance both the entrepreneurship of railway installations and help to increase competition with a view to obtaining the best solutions at the fairest price. Increased funds for railway maintenance are important now, and this is important in the future, but we also believe that a new organisation of this sector will release funds and contribute to both improved maintenance and increased competition. It is a political majority here on the Stortinget that will now renew the railway sector, among other things. by facilitating increased competition. That development forces itself, and by the Christian People's Party is increasing competition in this area desirable. This is not a new policy, but it is only now, with the new political majority and with an offensive state council, that we can bring about the significant renewal of the railway that we so badly need. Now is the time for action!
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3295	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an incredibly important theme – and the theme is maintenance, not investment. The appropriations for rail and operation and maintenance have increased sharply, as the interpellant said, there have been record increases in appropriations. In 2005, 2 773 million were granted. kr for operation and maintenance, under the Railway Station, and in 2013 5 187 million was granted. NOK – an increase of 187 pst. It is enormous, and it is clear that such an increase places great demands on the organisation and management of the railway system. This is the result of a clear prioritisation by the government and the Council of State, and by the Central Party, which has had the Council of State during this period, it has been a clear, explicit policy that priority should be given to operations and maintenance – because the railways are the many fine gears to go at the same time, and if they do not go at the same time, large investments are of little value. This increase has provided an economic basis for improving both what is called corrective maintenance, preventive maintenance and renewal. But there are still large aftertastes, which many have been in, in almost all areas: stations, tracks, crossings, level crossings, overhead lines, steering, light – yes, anyone who has been in this has experienced the reality. From 1 December 1996 onwards, the organisation of railway operations was greatly changed by the fact that a split rail wheels, rails and areas in several separate economic and legal units/companies have caused major problems, such as the relationship between the railway works and Rome Eiendom. It has taken a great deal of time and has incurred considerable additional financial costs. These are the messages I get from the practical life. In addition, we know that the Bondevik II administration cancelled many employees at the Railway Station, and this resulted in a shortage of professionals. For this is a work that is special; it's not just taking people from other industries – rail is special, with its distinctive character. The red-green government fixed up a lot of this and got back many professionals and trained many young people. I know many young people who have safe and good jobs in the Railway Station, who are really professionally interested in their job. However, there are still significant problems with the operation of the railway system, and many, many, are questioning the management of the railway system – from top to bottom – whether this is effective enough. The organisation of railway operations is therefore important, and for the Centre Party it is important to organise it within a management company, and there is a need to assemble railway operations – not to split them up, as has been done. It is important to discuss and clarify the operational responsibilities of the Railway Agency with regard to installations and maintenance and what should be left to the private. It is quite obvious that we need to have a lot of self-activity at the Railway Station. Something else would be a bold experiment, as we've seen. It has to be a lot of self-activity, because here one has to have a great base of competence that can provide a basis for it all. As the representative Raja from the Left said, the Central Party too would like to call what we are facing, a railway reform. As the representative Raja said, it wasn't privatisation that was the main point, but bringing together the railway company, bringing together the organization, so that one gets a management and an organisation that is more efficient, and it was also getting more predictability. For predictability, long-termity, and we know that predictability increases capacity. I cannot be told strongly enough: predictability increases capacity, both in the public sector and in the private sector. But it's important to bear in mind that here we are faced with a lot of special skills of people, and this has to be a strength in its own ranks. Finally, I would like to say that I hope the government will continue to greatly increase the appropriations for operation and maintenance. This is going to be very demanding, because there is a much greater status in investing in new plants than improving the small points that are absolutely necessary for the day-to-day operation, which we are talking about here, namely maintenance and operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3316	To a large extent, the welfare state stands and falls on those who create values every day. Not least, future well-being depends entirely on our politically facilitating those who take chances, who invest their own resources, time and money in making value. That is why it is important to call for private entrepreneurs, value creators, those who offer efficient, good services and help to make public good, such as rail, better. My good colleague Abid Q. Raja said instead – just enough at a slightly higher volume and pace than what I am capable of – that the public sector depends on trust. In a country where the public is as big an actor as in Norway, there is a huge responsibility on us that manages the public resources. In this context, it does not at least mean that we ensure that the State is a professional provider of services from the private market. We must be careful, open and competent and authoritative to have some flexibility and trust in those who provide such services. The feedback we get indicates that we're not there yet. There is no clear and open strategy for contract structures and size of supply, nor from the Railway Agency. This makes it very difficult for private entrepreneurs to plan before the offer is suddenly on the market. Adding and investing is also unnecessarily difficult, and poor supply routines simply make it difficult to operate an enterprise optimally – which in the next round can lead to poorer and more expensive supply and poorer and more expensive solutions for the state and the community. Despite the fact that the supplier industry has repeated the message many times in the last few years, one comes as much of the offer late in the winter or early in the spring. These could be distributed over a longer period of time, with funding under the government budget. It would have made it easier for companies to plan the next year of work and the next year of accounting. Although the Council of State is not formally responsible for sectors other than those that are in its department, I am sure that it is agreed that, in constructive cooperation, we have a great responsibility not only to the Railway Agency or the State, for that part, but to the entire public sector, to become far better and safer as purchasers. One thing is that there will be much more robust frameworks for providers and better services, but it will probably lead to savings of 10 billion. Since it's on the verge of a long day, I'm going to limit myself to giving the Council of State credit for the actions he outlined in his main post, in order to improve the conditions for the supply market in the railway sector. It's very good and fun. I nevertheless allowed myself to challenge the Council of State to clarify and elaborate further on what can be done – as quickly as possible – to ensure that the Railway Agency becomes the buyer of the field and the supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3335	I would like to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to discuss railway maintenance. I think it is extremely important that we make sure that we have an informed debate on how we manage to ensure sufficient long-termity of the investments we make, against what kind of work we do for the whole time to ensure maintenance. At the same time, I would like to point out two very specific points: One is that I believe it is extremely important that when we discuss the place of private entrepreneurs in the discussion on railway maintenance, we do not refer to a vulgar description that value creation is something that happens in the private sector, and that if railway maintenance is done by private individuals, it is value creation, but if it is done by the public, with the employees of the railway works, it is not value creation. It's the same work that's done, and the value of the work that's done is the same. The other thing I want to say is that if you want to have efficient railway maintenance, you depend on a good railway station. I would like to remind you of the increase that has occurred in railway maintenance under the red-green ones, which Per Olaf Lundtägen has been involved. The railway maintenance was not high enough in the period when the Left controlled the department. I can see that Abid Q also agrees with Raja. The second thing that happened during that period was that there was more involvement in both the outsourcing and phasing out of parts of the railway works' employees, which meant that important competence was lost in the railway works during a period when there was a need for more competence, which we noticed very clearly when we took over after the 2005 elections. I would warn you that we end up in a situation where we do not recognise the value of maintenance done in our own direction, because there is no doubt that all forms of contractual relations between the public and others are complicating factors in how maintenance is carried out, and effective management of one's own organisation in the railway works is the best way to ensure good railway maintenance. The second thing I want to say is that when we have big tasks to solve, which you choose to solve outside of your core organisation, I think that public should become a better demander of services than we are today. I am absolutely sure that the work being done needs to look at how to use the innovative power, innovation and experience of individual entrepreneurs and individual entrepreneurs, who can be great and have international competence, and who may have discovered new and more effective ways of doing things, which can contribute positively to the further development of railway maintenance in Norway. Ensuring it in a good way is important. But we must never forget that railway maintenance is something we do to ensure that the railway is maintained and that people and goods come forward. There's nothing we do to get entrepreneurs to exist. They are paid for the risk they take, and this is a fight, but they must be aware that it can swing. I am also keen to hear what the Council of State will say on the matter of railway companies, because they have now been very anxious to put in place a road company in connection with the revision. I am interested to hear what the Council of State says on that question. At the same time, I would like to express considerable concern about the Christian People's Party's position on privatisation, for which this debate is raised by Abid Q. Raja among others. to point out the need for predictability in the industry, in order to ensure optimum use of resources. If you are going to do the opposite in the NSB, with more unforeseeability through the unforeseeableness created by the launching of individual parts of the NSB, everyone understands that there is greater uncertainty about the size of the organisation and greater uncertainty in all possible ways. I would strongly urge the representative of the Christian People's Party to look at the countries that he thinks are the best successful in railway operations, because then he will see that they are not organized according to a privatisation model – at least if he looks at the countries that I think are the best successful in that effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3358	I would first of all like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. This is an important debate, because it is about how public spending their money, and it is about how we should deal with private actors. It's also about how to maintain our infrastructure. I agree with my colleague from Akershus, Nils Aage Igstad, who says that the maintenance system is a major challenge, and that more big business and more governments have inherited this. But then we, this big one, wanted something more. We would need to take more action, spend more money and organize better, so that we can bring this back. Then we have to try to break this legacy pattern, so that future politicians do not get very heavy burdens in captivity. The councils were afraid that what I am addressing could help delay the process of getting more maintenance. That's not the goal. My goal is to bring down the delays, to get up the maintenance, to make us more efficient, and to prevent as much and perhaps more than just repair in retrospect. The goal is to get the railway to go both more often and faster, and that it is to trust. Then you get more goods on the track, and you get more people to use the track. So, more goods away from the road, and more people away from the car and over to the track. Then our emissions are reduced. It will be good for the industry that saves money on this. You'll get less wear on the roads, which is what heavy transport creates. It will also help to reduce the additional risk posed by heavy goods transport on the roads. I thank you for the good debate. The left wants to get to more on the railway, and then this bunch that I have now picked up, is one of the flocks we have to solve. I hope we get this team solved quickly, so that several wise heads start good businesses, which deliver good solutions to the Norwegian railway. If we get there, I think we've got a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3377	I thank the inter-pellant once again, and I thank the Stortinget for a good debate. It is important to focus on the railway and maintenance because it is part of the big bet of the government and the bulk of the population. However, the debate has also shown that there is a very clear distinction in the way a person approaches the issues or challenges. One side, which has run, has communicated a very strong belief in heavy state government, where competition becomes problematic as to whether to put things on offer and things like that. Competition offers are about defining what an actually has to have. It is a task that you should have regardless of whether it is State or private. So it's going to be done when you put off competition. This is in contrast to the majority, who have more faith that we should use the skills and dynamics of the market. None of those who have spoken on the civil side, as I have seen, have said that we should privatize the railway, as some claim. I have seen that the Christian People's Party and others say that it is good to have a competitive outing on the railway. The approximation here is that the state, the public, is still responsible for the infrastructure being in place, but when it comes to providing services, it is good if private individuals can complement NSB and would like to show that one can do it better or differently. This has been accepted in freight transport, and even under the previous government. I don't understand why it's so wrong if you also do it for passenger transport. There is a logical lack of criticism from the red-green parties. What also comes out here is that money is important. There is no doubt about it, but what is one of my points, and as I perceive many from the other bourgeois parties also see as a point, is that large fluctuations in appropriations for maintenance are not lucky. Yes, we all agree that significantly more money was allocated during the red-greens last year than during their first year – more money than under the Bondevik government. It is natural when you have crazy much more money in the state budget to distribute. But that turn from 2012 to 2013 – with nearly half a billion dollars in innovation reduction – creates huge problems for an entrepreneurial industry to deliver those services, because they also have their expenses, their maintenance costs and their employees to pay. It's problematic when the market suddenly disappears, and it's people you have to permit or quit. It's not only when the state experiences fluctuations that it's uncomfortable, it's also like that in the private sector. I'm also very happy that a travels the discussion that goes on a competitive outing, because the NSB Gjøvik track is an example of how it works. Despite the relatively worn-out material, you provide a service that is very much appreciated by most customers. It's because this is also about the organisation and mentality that NSB Gjøvikbanen has really done. The conclusion is that maintenance has been strengthened. The route offer has been extended. Freight transport is reinforced on the terminal side and much more. We're on the right track, but there's a lot left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3388	The debate on substance is closed. So 12 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3394	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3537	It is first votered over I, § 13-5, and II, § 7-1c. The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3552	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee for the remainder of I, the remainder of II and III and IV.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3562	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3572	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3587	The Labour Party, the Central Party, the Left and the Socialist Left are behind the vote, so the President assumes that the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3619	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 2, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Center Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a case on how to introduce one hour of daily physical activity for students from 1 to 10. Steps.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3643	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to submit proposals for the introduction of a system to ensure the survival of the elephants from 1 to 10. steps at least one hour of physical activity each day, within the current hour.’;» The Central Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3676	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Henrik Asheim on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 4 July 2003 84 in the case of private schools entitled to state aid, the third paragraph of Section 2-1 is replaced by the following: The Ministry may grant approval to private schools which do not fulfil the requirement for a basis in the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3717	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3733	There were not enough votes. You must be nice to press. It is repeated over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3747	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3976	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e3986	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The size then goes to voting in case no. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4045	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4055	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. The size then goes to voting in case no. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4216	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4226	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4234	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Left, Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 3, from Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Greens/Greens/EFA First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3 by the Greens. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 100 on the management of the diversity of nature is amended as follows: the fifth paragraph of Section 29 is replaced by the following: Unless otherwise specified by the Royal Decree, this Act does not require authorisation for the introduction of terrestrial plants which have been in general sale here in the country until 1 January 2014 and specified domestic animals. No authorisation shall be required for the introduction of biological pesticides which have been authorised for the introduction into or in compliance with other laws.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4262	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Left, Socialist Left and the Greens. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘In Law No 19 June 2009 100 on the management of natural diversity is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4416	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4426	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4435	During the debate, Mr Astrup has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads: ‘The government asks in the context of the work on future climate objectives, and in assessing the appropriateness of a climate law, to assess in more detail how the control and monitoring of the achievement of the objectives of climate policy can be carried out.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be replaced by the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4478	Case No. 11 has already been weighed over. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-12.ana.ud1387e4492	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Unless someone asks for the floor, the meeting has been cancelled – and you can devote yourself to the evening’s upcoming joys.
