ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e35	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State will meet Siv Jensen, Vidar Helgesen and Elisabeth Aspaker for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jonas Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e42	I have a question for the Minister of Finance, and it is about the opportunity of the revised national budget to capture moods and make changes in the middle of a year. When we discussed the budget last year, we pointed out from the opposition that the cuts and tightening of the permitting arrangements were poor planning for the year we had ahead of us. The Councils rejected that criticism, introduced cuts in the stipulations and said in the budget debate: ‘We cannot create the budget based on mood — we create the budget based on facts. Therefore, the government will follow the situation closely in the future and make proposals for changes to the revision if the situation changes.» The question is, Has the situation changed? Have we gone from mood to fact – in this area and in some other areas? The kindergarten area was a similar case that we were worried about, but where the council felt that she had a good overview of what was coming. Now the government has presented the proposal for revision. There are no changes for kindergartens or permitting legislation. During the consultation of the Financial Committee on the revised budget, the LO and the NHO came up with an overall criticism that the restrictions were not proposed to reverse. The National Association of Construction writes to the Committee in its input, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It is very disappointing that the government disregards the fact that the social partners are united in the reversal of the restrictions in the law on permitation that were applied from 1 January 2014. These restrictions have led to more redundancies, create unforeseeability for employees and create additional burdens for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. Official statistics confirm this development.’ [[...]] The government, although slightly weaker growth and increasing unemployment are reported in the revised national budget. I've visited companies that are now cancelling people rather than being able to permit them, and so keep the workforce. In view of what appears to be a change in the situation from the autumn onwards, it is natural to ask the Council of State: why does the Minister of Finance not do what she said in connection with the State budget, and makes proposals for changes in this area in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e59	It is absolutely right for the government to normalise the permitting legislation in the context of the current year's budget. It was also quite right given that we have a very normal situation in the labour market. Then, ever since we discussed the supplementary proposal, I have said that the government will follow developments in the labour market closely, be in dialogue with the industries and sectors concerned and, if necessary, also make changes to the legislation on leave. At the moment, there's nothing to it, it's still a perfectly normal situation. According to the estimates I have seen, there is no higher use of leavement now than it was last year, and unemployment is still low and employment is high. But what I can assure the representative Gahr Støre about is that if the situation changes to the worse, that we should have a dramatic deterioration that calls for changes to the law of the permit, the government will of course quickly assess it and come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e66	Thus, the out-of-work actors experience changes and they report clearly. Obviously, however, there are no signs that the Council of State takes seriously. Another area of a similar nature is the nursery situation — an area where the Minister of Finance has not made proposals for changes, despite the fact that the situation here has also changed. Here we have a number to relate to. When the government provided increased cash support in the autumn, it assumed that the demand for nursery places would be reduced by 4,090 places. The fasite shows that demand has increased instead, the need is 4,500 places. However, the government, which now acknowledges that they bombed in its autumn estimate, does nothing to compensate the municipalities. Kindergartens are a statutory task, so the municipalities have to carry it out. Then they have to cut elsewhere, and it hits weak parties. It affects parties that the government likes to talk about: rushes, psychiatry, non-statutory areas. What signals does the government send to Kommune-Norway when it imposes more and more tasks on the municipalities, but does not follow up with money to solve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e75	Firstly, it is not right that I do not take into account the serious situation on the labour market. I do; I follow it closely, and I also have close dialogue with the industries and industries concerned. So to kindergartens. The government has reviewed this issue, simply because we have recognised that the calculation tool used by both the previous government and this government in assessing cash support and kindergartens does not work optimally. In 2012, when the government of which the representative Gahr Støre was part, tightened the cash support, the municipalities experienced more income than had been suggested. Then there was no big debate about it. Now it's the opposite situation that arises. That is why, in the revised budget, we have announced that we will review the system, in dialogue with the KS, in order to arrive at a better tool and better compensation for the municipal sector in the context of the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e82	It opens for five follow-up questions – first Day Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e85	The Council of State said in its first response to the representative Gahr Støre that there was no increase in the commissions – and that is exactly the whole point. The whole point is that when people today have little to do, they are – instead of as before, when they were licensed – being quit. That's the problem, that's what we've been trying to describe. So the Council of State tells her to follow the situation closely, and then you need to have dialogue with the parties to change if necessary. At the same time, the government announced some increase in unemployment – both in the budget and again, in revised form. There are signals that have previously led to the strengthening of the permeability code. Now it's weakened. As far as dialogue with the parties is concerned, the signals we receive — from the NHO, from the LO, from employers in general, from the construction industry, which was mentioned — are now urgent to get back the old legislation. What information does the Council of State have that would mean that the legislation would not be amended, when all those who live with it daily claim that it should be amended?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e94	I do not have any information to suggest that it is urgent. If we look at figures both during the financial crisis, after the financial crisis and now, then there is nothing to suggest that there is a need for liberalisation in the law on permitting. But I want to repeat that I'm completely open to get to Stortinget with it, if the need should respond. I have e.g. on repeated occasions in dialogue with Norwegian Industry asked for an industry-wide assessment of developments, simply because there may be different challenges in different industries, and I believe that it is based on actual figures, actual developments, and we need to consider this. It is also not right that we now see a sharp increase in unemployment; it is moderate. Unemployment in Norway is still very low. We have a high level of employment, growth in employment, and at least I would advise the Labour Party to wait to press the alert button until the situation calls for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e101	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e104	It is not the Working Party or the opposition of the Centre Party and SV that push the alarm button; it is the construction industry itself. It's LO, and it's NHO. During the consultation of the Financial Committee, there was one clear advice: Reverses it cut off in the law of the permitment that the government implemented before Christmas. And as the National Association of Construction said, then we have to cancel employees rather than permit. Then we see the numbers for May. What does Nav say? They say they see that the most worrying development is precisely in the construction industry. Then it's amazing to see a government council that doesn't take a whole industry, which has hundreds of thousands of employees, seriously, and that takes Nav's indicators seriously and changes and shows power of action and strengthens the law of leave, strengthens employees' rights and strengthens businesses. When will the Progress Party take employees and businesses seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e112	The government takes the companies and employees seriously every day. This is precisely why we are committed to strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian business, which is why we are committed to strengthening the overall framework conditions for Norwegian business, and that is why we are regularly and closely monitoring developments in the Norwegian labour market, so that we can provide the right tools at the right time if the situation so permits. The normalisation of the legislation on lay-offs cannot be particularly alarming. This has been repeatedly done by the Stortinget and former governments. The whole point is to be able to make changes if the situation calls for it. So it's true that the latest figures for May indicate a slight increase in unemployment, but it also corresponds to a rather sharp decline in unemployment in April, so I think we're going to be a little careful to base ourselves on a single monthly statistics. But as I say, the situation would evolve to the worse, the government would take hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e117	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e120	One might wonder why the Minister of Finance and the Government have first amended the law on permitting, when it is that the Minister of Finance is still promising to change it again and again with its effect, or when it actually affects someone. But what we're hearing now is that people are being cancelled. The finance minister has to say as much as she wants to be in dialogue with the parties, and that she is in dialogue with KS about kindergartens, but dialogue with the parties does not give people back the job – genuine people who lose real jobs – and dialogue with the KS does not give people who need kindergartens, a kindergarten. I want to ask the Minister of Finance what she wants to say to those who are now losing the job, and to those who are not now getting kindergarten because of government policy. Don't answer me, but answer them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e125	Government policies are not contributing to changes in different industries. Rather, on the contrary, it is important that the government implements many more measures to strengthen the competitive conditions of Norwegian business across the whole country. We do that by strengthening the appropriations for infrastructure, by having competitive tax rates, and we do that by focusing on research and development and on a good and competitive education system. In all of these areas, the government has made an active commitment and will continue to do so. So I want to repeat: if there is a need to make changes to the permitting legislation, the government will do so, but we will do so when the situation so warrants, and not before. Regarding kindergartens: It is wrong, the right to children's gardening has not changed, it is still there, and it is the responsibility of the municipalities to provide for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e132	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e135	June 4 is a very special day, especially if you go back 25 years, with dramatic events both in China and in Poland. Common to the two events is that freedom of expression stood as a core value for which people stood up. So can anyone ask, what in the world does that have to do with the Minister of Finance? But there is a thread to freedom of expression from what the Minister of Finance has to say, namely VAT. We know that we have a dramatic change within Medie-Norway. The circulation number rages for the paper newspapers. With that, the advertising revenue is also raging. We get a lot of readers who go online but don't generate similar incomes, and a free press is a foundation in a democracy. I think there are a lot of parties in this room that have had and have slightly different opinions about which VAT to put on both newspapers and other platforms, namely the digital ones. But in common with us, maybe evolution is now going so fast that we need to reconsider whether the terrain we're moving in is kind of similar to what we saw for us just a short time ago. So my question is, quite openly, how does the government view this, and it could mean something to the government's assessment of what VAT you put on the media?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e144	There is no doubt that freedom of expression is strong in free democracies, as Norway is. That is why it is important that we constantly look at whether we should make changes to the instruments in order to adapt to a new reality. I think many Norwegian politicians over the years have had close dialogue with various media players just to follow the developments that happen when paper newspapers are being sold, and that more and more of us are using digital platforms to read the newsprint. In the government platform, the government has called for the equalisation of paper newspapers and e-papers through a common low rate of VAT. That's what we're doing. It is a challenge, because this also needs to be notified and approved by ESA. But the government is working on this and is trying to find a suitable method and a suitable rate, which, hopefully, can help correct the developments we are now seeing – or, let's say, adapt to the developments that are now taking place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e151	There are probably a lot of people in this room who have tasted of a so-called common low rate. I must say, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, that as dramatic as development is, we are willing to look at a little more drastic solutions also in order to strengthen what has become more and more important, namely a free and independent press, not least in a situation where one public relations agency after another that professionalises the information given to the public. So my challenge is really very straightforward, that the government is very open to work and has an open mind when you now evaluate all the different elements, and that it can also include assessing whether to refrain from VAT on all platforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e156	Now this government has a continuous close and good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Biggest. That means, of course, that we will also listen to the recordings and views of the two parties on the way to finding a better system that will take care of the changes that we are now seeing in the entire media industry. It's worth taking seriously, simply because we as citizens have changed our behavior with regard to our media habits. Then we must also make changes to the legislation that regulates.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e161	There will be follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e164	That's what the previous one is asking points, that in the media industry there has been a dramatic development over a very short period of time. Just since the signing of the government platform, this development has gone very fast, and we're sitting with a different kind of knowledge now than we did just eight to nine months ago. That is why I am pleased with the signals given by the Minister of Finance, that she will look at an opportunity to meet the media industry, and that the VAT regime is also part of this. It is important that even if there is something on a government platform, the map must be in line with the terrain. There may be changes, and it is not unusual that changes have been made even if there is something in a government platform. But I understand the finance minister there that she shares the same concern that... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e170	That's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e173	The Government recognises that there has been a development calling for action. That's why this is mentioned in the government's platform. Today, paper newspapers have exemption from VAT, while the electronic platforms have 25 pst. It's a difference of substance. Then we have to try to find a better solution, which can stand out in a new situation. So we're looking at it, and we're willing to engage in dialogue with the Christian People's Party and the Left to find a unified solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e178	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e181	As you've been in here, a number of media houses are under pressure. Evolution is happening very quickly, and it can also have unparalleled consequences. It may have particular consequences if the authorities are now making sudden changes to the conditions, in addition to the upheaval that lies in the market itself and the entire publication platform of the media houses. Has the government at all considered the aspects of its own proposals? How sure is the Minister of Finance that one does not now initiate violent changes that one does not overlook the consequences of? In particular, if one introduces a low VAT on paper newspapers, which are currently exempt from VAT.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e186	The Minister of Culture has the primary responsibility to assess how the framework conditions for the media houses should be. I am responsible for the VAT, and we work together to find a good solution. But it's not that this – I think – is perceived as sudden and violent changes. For a long time, media houses have visited the different parts of Stortinget and addressed this question. This is something they've been busy for a long time, it's something they've long wanted to get a change on, an improvement in the framework conditions. And then the question is, how do we set it up, so that we make a system that is robust, and that stands at a time when evolution seems to go just one way, away from the traditional paper newspapers and over on electronic platforms?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e193	Arild Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e196	It is a very important question to ask, because it is about how we as a society in the world situation and in the situation in the media market can facilitate journalism and the free word. The issue of VAT is a very important part of that landscape. Other questions concern the production grant granted to Norwegian media and the role of the NRK. 2014 will be a very important year in this way. I hear a lot of nice words from the government about what you want to do in the long run. But so far, everything the government has done to the media industry is about making the situation more difficult. It has been assessed to throw small newspapers out of production aid and now assesses a static ceiling on production aid. The question is: When can we expect to get some signals from the government and proposals for the Storting that will strengthen the media industry and the free word?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e203	Let there be no doubt: I think it's a unanimous big thing that's occupied with the free word and occupied with that we're going to have a free and independent press. So the question is, what are our instruments when the situation has changed as much as it has? I hope that more parties at Stortinget are willing to look at whether many of the traditional framework conditions that have been built around the industry are perhaps ripe for change. There are changes the Minister of Culture has made and is under her responsibility. What this question is about is the VAT on paper newspapers and e-newspapers, and as I say, this is something the government is now working on and will come back to Stortinget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e208	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e211	It is good that the government comes back to Stortinget with matters, but Medie-Norway is in an emergency situation. The review of the class struggle shows that as many as 1,000 employees may lose their jobs and have to leave the media house this year. Especially bad is the situation for small local viewers, who lose large advertising revenue. They are among the most important lifebloods in our public and in our democracy. 90 pst. their revenues are from paper, so changing the VAT regime digitally will not have much to say to them in the short term. I am not sure that there is a total big deal that is very concerned about this, firstly because I think the Minister of Finance's answer seems unaccompanied, and secondly because a central, not named – for this occasion – party politician just after the election said that the newspaper should now be'sleep in his pants'. This is not the traditional point of the Progress Party. When I asked questions, I got the government tax relief policy in response – then also. Do I now also get it when I ask what measures the government intends to take for the media industry in the short term?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e220	It is well in the responsibility of the Minister of Culture, but the Minister of Finance can choose if she will respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e224	I think the bulk of the question to Serigstad Valen should be addressed to the Minister of Culture. Now I just answered a question from the representative Arnstad, who was concerned about sudden and violent changes. And then the approach to the Serigstad Valen is that the situation is acute. So it's maybe a little bit difficult to get what the Storting really thinks the government should do. What the government is doing is following up what we've said we're going to do on the platform, that's to come back with a change in the VAT system related to the media houses. But if our media habits change there as we go away from some traditional media and to others, it also has to have consequences for the framework conditions. We have to build framework conditions based on what the population wants to acquire from information. I would also like to point out that the representative Serigstad Valen is concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e233	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e236	Since the state councillor Jensen is doing so well, she can do a little more! Norway is a long-term and diverse country. In parts of the country, the distances are large and the population density is small, but we have housing, a foreign population and profitable business. We in the Center Party are concerned that if you live in Oslo, in Stange, in Alvdal or in Kirkenes, you should have the opportunity to bet, and we've used a lot of tools to get it done. The government went to the elections to lower taxes and taxes. However, after the government joined, it has issued a tax notice for Norwegian district companies and sole proprietors. I'll frame up: The social security charge has increased for self-employed persons. This is the biggest increase in the diesel tax ever for business. The tax burden on agriculture was increased by a variety of measures. As the Minister for Fisheries well knows, a grip on fishermen has been tightened by cutting our proposal to improve the fishing deduction. And as if that were not enough, the fees for the Norwegian food industry, which is the country's most important and heaviest industry, were increased. This is targeted tax and tax measures under Norwegian districts and Norwegian districts. And now in March, it was also announced that it wanted to give in to the EU in terms of an increase in the employer’s fee for Norwegian district companies, of more than 1 billion. kr. My question to Minister of Finance and Fee Siv Jensen is: What has happened to the Progress Party, and why are you using your power to increase tax pressure in Norwegian districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e265	This is a positive error. Social violence Vedum knows very well that when the Stortinget dealt with the state budget for 2014, the taxes were reduced by over 7 billion. kr. It's very hard to get it to become a tax boost. These included: the relief that businesses have long sought. It is enterprises, whether located in northern Norway, in central Norway, in the east country or in the south, that have requested changes in farm tax, property tax and inheritance tax. All three of them were taken by the government, and we've notified them that there's more to come. Then there will be a large and comprehensive tax debate for the autumn when the Scheel Committee presents its tax analysis. There will be an important principleal debate, because there will be a discussion about what kind of tax system we are going to have in Norway in the future that is in competition with all countries around us. I hope we have a constructive and good debate on that, because it is important that we get a tax level that is competitive with countries around us. This government is busy with it. Then there is a claim that we want to increase the employer's fee. It's also a positive error. It was a change that was notified by the EU under the previous government, of which Battle violence Vedum was a member. As far as I can see, the previous government did not do anything to the European Commission to find better solutions. That's what this government has done. We've been through the whole thing, and because we've done it, because we've been pressured, because we've had a meeting with the Commission, because we've had a meeting with ESA, we've managed on the rise to get a tighter definition of the system than it was supposed to be. I'm very pleased with that. On Friday, the government presents the proposal for compensatory measures for the differentiated employer’s fee. Then Stortinget will know how the government meets it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e274	The Minister of Finance and Fees knows very well that we never gave in to the EU in this matter. Nor did we dare to stand up and put national interests ahead of the interests of the EU in a number of other cases. The main step taken by the Minister of Finance is taxes on wealth. Let's look at the wealth tax and how it turns out. During the red-green period, we raised the bottom subtraction. Only in the last budget we provided, there were 100,000 fewer people who would pay taxes on wealth. But as the Siv Jensen and the Progress Party have added to it, the inhabitants of three postal addresses – those living on Snarey, Nesøya and Jar – will receive as much in tax squares as the inhabitants of 141 municipalities in the rest of the country combined. So the tax and tax measures the government did were targeted tax and tax measures for Nesøya, Jar and Snarey, while the scarfs were for Norwegian districts. I repeat, what concrete tax measures have you taken to strengthen Norwegian districts? The arrests you did, strengthened Jar.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e283	It's also a positive error. The fact that we reduce taxes on wealth by increasing the deduction and reducing the rate will benefit Norwegian businesses by strengthening the number of jobs and providing the basis for getting more jobs. Those who own this capital will thus be able to invest it and reinvest it so that we get stronger, better and more businesses located around the whole country. This is one of the reasons why an overall Norwegian business life — whether you talk to business managers in Northern Norway or in the East — has asked the government to make rapid and effective changes in property taxes. That's what we're doing. But that is not right – the previous government did not lift one finger to meet the proposal for changes to the differentiated employer’s fee. I noticed what the former party leader of the Central Party, Liv Signe Navarsete, said about the Great Council chair a short time ago. She expressed herself so that it was a trip that was almost wasted, that she had at least only discussed this with the ESA leader.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e292	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marit Arnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e295	I hear the Minister of Finance in his reply says that there will be new tax reliefs. The Progress Party has promised many tax reliefs. One area where the Norwegian people have been promised great relief is the car charges and tolls. Just before the election, today's Secretary of State Bård Hoksrud promised that with the Advance Party in government he could guarantee that it would be toll-free throughout the country. I remember. When I was Minister of Transport, I had the pleasure – I have to admit – to discuss these questions with Hoksrud repeatedly. To remove the tolls were never produced as difficult, nor was any reservation made for the digestion of the upcoming toll elections. As State Secretary, however, Hoksrud has said that tolls and car charges are important and important, that it is necessary to ensure that the revenue of the State does not go down and that tolls and car charges are necessary for maintenance and investment in the way. My question is: does the Finance Minister of Hoksrud share the view that tolls and car charges are important revenues for the state, and that they must be taken care not to go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e304	Even the Progress Party has not ever called for the winding-up of each single car-related charge. But what we've wanted to do is reduce someone and remove others to get a better device on the car charges. That's what the government is doing. We are now going through the entire car tax system with a view to making changes. One of the reasons why there's a need for that is that it works. We now see that, among other things. on the charging system and all the benefits associated with electric cars. These are privileges that only 1 pst. In Norway, car drivers have, but are in return, very large. Then there will eventually be demands and expectations from the 99 pst. the other drivers that a review is being carried out and that they are looking at the device of the car charges, and the government is doing well. We are also in the process of implementing a wide range of measures to improve transport policy. We have established an infrastructure company, and we are establishing a new road company, whose purpose is to build cheaper, better and faster than we have so far. All of this, collectively, will benefit the drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e313	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e316	I register with interest what the Minister of Finance says about the previous government's efforts in this important area, because it's very dramatic with an increase of 0 pst. to 14 pst. But my question really goes to the European Minister, who has a considerable responsibility to see these matters together. I listened to what the Minister of Finance said here, but we know that the Minister of Europe has a very close dialogue with Europe and the EU, which assesses these issues. My question is therefore how he now assesses the situation of a differentiated employer fee, which we know is very important for District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e326	I consider the matter in the same way as the Minister of Finance. It is a very important issue for the districts; it is a very important issue not least for North Norway, and it is a very important issue not least for the transport industry. It is therefore important that in our EU and EEA work we learn lessons from the experience of last year. The important process took place in the EU between January and July, but nothing was put ahead of the Storting on what was going on, there was no public debate, and there was no possibility of mobilising a national discussion on how to better intervene with the EU. We must avoid that kind of failure sin. We have to be ‘on the ball’ in the past, and we need to have more transparency and discussion on these issues to promote Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e333	Ola Elvesuen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e336	My question is to the Minister of Finance. Now there have been many questions about the tax system, and I agree that it is important that we have a comprehensive policy that strengthens business throughout the country, including Norwegian districts. But I noticed that the main questioner – among the charges he thought were negative for the districts – mentioned the diesel charge and the increase in the mineral oil charge. In the answer given by the Minister of Finance, she spoke about reforms and her policy towards the charging system. But what I missed was a policy that is based on the need for a greater green tax shift. Because it is clear that the increase in the mineral oil charge is an important part of a first step of a major shift in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. We have a consensus here that we should strengthen the climate agreement. How does the Minister of Finance feel that we now need to strengthen this policy with increased environmental taxes?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e347	That's why in a short time the government is setting down a green tax commission. This is precisely what we do in order to assess how we can properly carry out a tax shift by reducing some and, where appropriate, looking at the environmental-related areas in which it may be natural to increase the tax. It shall decide on it and, when it has completed its work, the Council and Government will be able to start discussing the recommendations of the Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e352	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e355	This question is about how Norway to the seventh and last functions, how the districts are related to the cities, what kind of values you create, and how to get this country forward. So it's really not just about district versus city, it's about how one can make it work out the best possible way. The big cuts that governments have made both in business development and for county municipalities and municipalities that especially frame the districts go directly beyond the possibilities of developing something around the districts – which is largely the whole country. When the government also says that the relief of capital and wealth benefits the districts, a lack of ability to understand how Norway works. The capital of Norway is unevenly distributed. It's true, as Schlagsvold Vedum says, that there are some streets on the west side that just get more in tax havens than all of my part of the country. My question to the Minister of Finance is simply: What is the government plan when it comes to raising capital for investment in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e364	I have also read the article in the North Lights where Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes made quite false claims about the government's policy in this area. I can only say that when I visit North Norway, I hear no cry about any more subsidies. What I hear from any business manager and any company located in this region asking for is competitive framework conditions that allow them to compete with the rest of the country and the rest of the world. That's what this government delivers. That's why we're committed to strengthening investment in infrastructure across the country, that's why we're committed to reducing the total tax burden across the country, that's why we're dedicated to research and development that's going to happen across the country, and that's why we're committed to strengthening education provision across the country. All these measures will work. And these are the measures I have heard from the Norwegian business community asking for more of them. They'll get it, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e373	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e376	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. The left is particularly concerned with the framework conditions for the smallest enterprises, founders and self-employed. What's good for the little ones is almost without exception good for the big ones. It's not necessarily the same consistent opposite. For the left, it is an independent goal that more people start their own business and close with it. Valuation and future well-being lie rather heavily in the fact that we are being closed in this way. It is also important for the dissemination of power that self-employed and several small businesses are involved. This exposure has been previously shared by us with the Progress Party. Nevertheless, it is difficult to find traces of this involvement in the government statement. One area where there is considerable inequality between self-employed and ordinary workers is within the tax system, in the disfavor of self-employed persons. The deductions made by the Tax Payer Association show that an income of NOK 300000 is taxed at 38 pst. higher in an individual than the same income received as remuneration. The difference is rightly perceived by many as grossly unfair and very discriminatory. The main reason for the difference is that ordinary workers have a large minimum deduction, while self-employed workers are not entitled to the same. In addition, self-employed poorer tax conditions relate to savings for their own pensions, they have a higher social security charge, they do not have the possibility of accounting for surplus funds, they do not use the TaxFUNN scheme and they do not receive tax exemptions for continuing training in line with normal workers. In some cases, this draws an image of a tax system that does not stimulate more people to start their own businesses and activities, contrary to their ambitions of the Left and the Hopeful Advance Party. So my question is, does the Minister of Finance see this fundamental injustice, and will she do something about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e391	Thank you for the question. The Left Party and the Progress Party share the view on the importance of SMEs. These are the most of them in Norway, and it is of course also important that we build good, competitive framework conditions around them. Of course, this is about taxes, I agree with Mr Breivik, and that is why the government is now going through the whole tax system with a view to simplification and reduction. I'm sure we'll also get input from the Left in that process to look at other single elements of it. This will also be natural elements when we discuss a larger tax reform, because we cannot underestimate the fact that the farm flora in Norway looks like it does. We must also be concerned about finding the most accurate and targeted instruments, but nevertheless within a tax system that is simple and transparent. If we make it too complicated, we also make complex rules and structures that have to be tested and checked at the other end. And that's another dimension I'm concerned with: simplifying and debureaucraticizing the structure around. That is why I am now taking action in relation to both the tax and tax rates, the tax rate and the central government collection centre because it will make the public bureaucracy around the tax collection easier and easier to deal with both self-employed and individual taxpayers. The Minister of Industry is in the process of passing through different laws to see how they can be simplified. I am sure that the Left agrees with the government in is an important measure to simplify the everyday life of small and medium-sized enterprises. So the government is working on several fronts to make it easier to be a businessman in Norway, and I am sure we can find out good and successful actions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e406	Thank you for the first answer from the Minister. Very many self-employed people also experience today's legislation relating to advance taxes as a major problem. Today's rule is that taxes must be paid before the money is physically lit, based on the historical income calculated. However, if the payment is not made, the tax collector may charge the tax collected for the entire year of income even if it is due only for the first date that is invalidated. This is a practice to which the Left is very sceptical, to which we have addressed in several budgetary proceedings in the Grand Duchy, and I believe, of course, that self-employed people must be treated in the same way as ordinary workers in this area as well. The proposal costs no more than three months' deferred interest income for the country, which at today's interest rate level is reasonably minimal. During the discussion of the 2013 State Budget – I believe it was – the Left and the Progress Party agreed to change this practice, so my question to the Minister of Finance now is whether it still thinks that this is a regime that should be changed and whether it will take the initiative to do so at the first reading of the budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e418	I believe it is a very good input, which I will assess in more detail and come back to the representative Breivik with an answer to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e423	It opens for follow-up questions – first Iselin Nybø.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e426	As the representative Breivik addressed his main question, the current tax rules do not stimulate the development and innovation of individual enterprises. One example is the SkattenFUNN scheme. The self-employment of economic operators is not included in the costs that form the basis for tax deductions through the scheme. By comparison, the same person receives tax deductions if he organizes the operation as a limited liability company and pays compensation to himself. It is also appropriate to point out that ESA has long ago approved the scheme as existing under Bondevik II, with grants for unpaid labour input in the TaxFUNN, which typically takes place in just one-man enterprises. In reality, therefore, this is on political will – and a few million dollars – so my question is: does the Minister of Finance have the will to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e435	Already in the current year's budget, the government strengthened the tax FUNN scheme, simply in recognition of the fact that there is an important system that is relatively simple to practice. At the same time, I have also been told by several people that the system is certainly easy to handle when you are inside it, but it seems to be demanding to get into it. There are also recordings I have received, and I think it is natural that the government assesses that question together with the issues that the representative from the Left now raises, so that we can continue to work on strengthening the tax FUNN scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e440	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e443	The previous government set an ambitious goal of simplifying forms, rules, laws and reports for Norwegian business by 10 billion. kr by 2016. Half of that was to be achieved by the end of 2013, and we were able to do that. We've saved Norwegian business for between 5 and 6 billion. kr, e.g. with the removal of audit obligations for small enterprises, the reduction of share capital requirements, changes to the Share Act, improvements to the ALTIN, the introduction of an electronic invoice and many other things. The last major simplification launched by the red-green government was to halve the retention obligation under the Accounting Act. It was stopped by the new government. There had to be some new investigations to do. This had to be for review and discussion and has therefore not been carried out. My question is, when does this simplification measure come? And how much has the new government simplified for completely concrete? There have been very little concrete results from the fine words.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e452	I do not agree with that. I believe that this government is well-informed with a wide range of simplification measures. Each and every government councils are focused on it within their territory. I can say that for my part, I go through every one of the underlying agencies for which I am responsible, to look at the possibility of making simplifications – first of all for taxpayers, then for companies, who depend on having a simple meeting with a public bureaucracy. I know that the Minister of Industry, who has a lot of responsibility for this, is also well on the move and can certainly inform the representative Giske more about the work she is doing. But I can assure you that we have full pressure on this. It is not that we have stopped halving the storage obligation. We are well in the process of realizing it, just as we are working on a wide range of other measures that I hope will give taxpayers more money for the tax they actually pay, and that they experience the meeting with the public sector as effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e461	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e464	It is important when implementing changes, ensuring a system that is not too complex and that, in the context of changes for individual enterprises, one has also thought about the consequences for that type of enterprise. Paradoxically enough, the removal of the inheritance fee resulted in some unintended negative effects for individual enterprises. My question is simply: why can't a person in retrospect recognize the kind of unintended negative outcome, and also compensate for it in different ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e471	The fact that the inheritance fee is now history is not a problem. On the contrary, it is an advantage for all those who are currently not paying the inheritance tax in the future. There is a fee the government parties have wanted to do something with a very long time. Now it's gone. I think that's good. It's not a problem for anyone that it's gone. What the government will continue to do is to reduce the total tax and tax burden by full strain over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e478	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e482	My thoughts and my question go to the Minister for Fisheries – so she can calm down, as we say. The Minister for Fisheries is interested in and wants to improve profitability, including: by structuring and allowing boats below 11 metres to buy up and join together. The Labour and Social Committee came back tonight from a two-day trip on the Finnmark coast, and I have the impression that the ram salted sea air is hanging in both the nose and head. On that trip, we were among others. on Nordvågen AS, Norsra AS, a plant outside Honningsvåg. There we saw that the fish that was fishing – the coastal fleet has now fished almost all of the quota, they have no more quota left – were in ice boxes, and it vibrated in the fish meat, so fresh it was. Behind the factory stood the trail with the engines running and the broom and was ready to drive down to France to an increasing price market. There was a lot of demand, so it looked very good. But the workers were now licensed, there was no more quota left, so they need to get more raw material. We traveled to Hammerfest yesterday and were at Aker Seafood's facility in Rypefjord. The same problem was there: 50 pieces have now been cancelled – there are only 50 pieces left. The workers were in despair. As they also say, they could have produced more. From my living room where I live, I see the freezing rays, I see only the black smoke of them – they travel south to the freezer stores to send the frozen fish on board to China. The question to the Minister for Fisheries is this: does the Minister for Fisheries see the same thing as the fishing industry workers and more fish industries, that the landing of fresh fish would give more employment, fewer permits and better profitability?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e497	There is no doubt that from nature we are blessed with a fantastic raw material just off the coast. But if this industry is to have the right of life in Norway, we are totally dependent on the profitability of those jobs, that there are markets that are willing to pay the cost of further processing in Norway. Fortunately, I read newspapers from the north, I meet people, and I face an increasing optimism about investing in new technology. Markets work well, and we see that the innovation that is now taking place in the industry promises very well for the future. So I'm optimistic on behalf of the coast, but I think we have to assume that not everything can be like yesterday, not in the fishing industry either. We must now strive to find the best paying markets, the best imaginable technology and the best prospects, and apply new strategies to balance out these big seasons we have, which means that we have too many fish in the market parts of the year and too few other parts of the year. Fortunately, we are now working on strategies and have businessmen with us in that this is the way to go. We have to think about something new, and we have a lot of people who are now in the starting pit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e506	Johnny Ingebrichtsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e509	The Minister for Fisheries leads me into the next natural question. The fact is that it is known that the coastal fleet fishes most of its fish in February to April – and now they have fished the quota. But then we used to have an arrangement with the trawler, which is big boats that can go far into the Barents Sea and fish when the fish in April-May goes out into the Barents Sea, which is natural. I therefore ask the Minister for Fisheries: can the Minister for Fisheries imagine going back to the scheme that the large boats that can go far north of the Barents Sea are required to fish parts of his fishing quota in the autumn far north of the Barents Sea – which the coastal fleet is too small to do – to keep employment and profitability by just over the year summer, harvest and winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e516	Periodication of fishing, shifting quota years – these are issues that come up in close proximity, no matter where I am. Whether I'm at the annual meeting of the Fiskarlag, whether I'm at the annual meeting of the Råfisk team, or if I meet fishing companies and fishermen out there, this is one of the big issues. So there we are in the think box: what are we going to do? What's the ambition, which must be, is that we're going to get as much value creation as possible, as many jobs as possible, and maximum export values out of the raw material that we have, and that we fish at. But I haven't concluded on this. We want to have a good dialogue with the industry, and then we get to hear and see what kind of opportunities we have. But this is the quota year I've announced and I'm preparing to deal with Russia, which is a party we have to agree with if we're going to do something about the quota year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e525	I don't really understand who the Minister for Fisheries is talking to. It's not just her talking to people along the coast, there's a lot of people here in the hall who actually either are in the profession or have ours and fishes, and the story we're hearing is not as golden as she wants to make it that way. So that's kind of funny. However, the availability of raw material to Norse industrial enterprises is a number of places critical along the coast. After the age of shrimp, Stella Polaris in Kårvika in Troms is at risk of closure. It is probably the most cost-effective grower in the world, yet they do not get raw material. If developments continue and the corner stone industry in Kårvikhamn is brought to a standstill, the future of the Norwegian shrimp industry may be at risk, the future of the built may be at risk, and in particular exciting possibilities for the development of medicine based on Norwegian resources may be at risk of being moved out of the country. Does the Minister at all intend to do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e536	In fact, we work intensively in the department and look at what we can do to save the last rest of Norwegian shrimp. This has been a great industry with dozens of factories, and so we are in a situation now where we are in two-three – we can count them in one hand. The challenge is that cod fisheries have been more profitable and that the fleet that has previously also had shrimp as an important part of its annual catch no longer has it. The shrimp is too far away, it's too far north, it's too hard to find, and so you haven't found it economically profitable to look for it. But we intend to tighten up the activity requirements with regard to the fact that those who have shrimp concessions have to fish on them. Another thing is that if you want to go on with them and find a better economy, we have also released previous shrimp boats. So we're working on the matter, but unfortunately there are no easy solutions to this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e543	Ingrid Hegø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e546	The coastal fleet is the starting point of many coastal communities, and the smallest fleet is decisive. My question is about structuring under 11 meters, which is now out on the earring. A week after the Minister sent this on the phone, the Government Party adopted at its national meeting a no for structuring below 11 meters. Finnmark Right, the minister's own party, is also opposed, and the Finnmark Regional Council is strongly opposed. The size should, in my view, have given the entire structuring debate a wide lashing, so that we can ensure that it becomes long-term and careful for this important industry. My question, which is about this directly, is: Has the Minister secured his anchoring in the Storting for what is out on the ears? Anchoring has been a foreword to this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e557	It is true that structuring below 11 meters now has been sent to the hearing. It can't come as a surprise to anyone. This is actually one of the points of the government platform. I note that a consultation round means that it is a consultation round. That means there are divided opinions about what should be done. I intend to let this round of consultations go, and we will gather the points of view that may come. I would like to say that because if we are now in a historically favourable situation where the smallest fleet is fishing well, we must also have for this fleet a policy of profitability, which is to carry worse times on the back, which is to ensure that this fleet is competitive in terms of access to labour in the future, and which is to ensure that this fleet – which is so important to the coast – is able to renew itself. That is why it is important that we now think about the possibilities that make sure that we have a coastal fleet – including among the smallest boats – that is competitive in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e564	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e568	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. One of the major flagship issues when the Minister of Finance presented the budget last autumn was NOK 50000 in grants to all new enterprises that took in apprentices. The draft budget of the Ministry of Finance states: ‘In order to stimulate new enterprises to take in apprentices, the Government proposes to provide an incentive grant of $50,000 to new apprenticeships.’ Now it turns out that this was a pure bluff. In TV2 today, the Minister of Knowledge admits that the budget is simply wrong: "We had calculated approx. 200 new apprenticeships, but now there are many more," says Røe Isaksen. That's not so strange, because the average number of new apprenticeships in the last few years has been well over 2,000 a year. The government has just stopped with the ten o'clock. Many young people have no apprenticeship. Many companies want to use this grant to make their contribution, but they are not helped when the government makes promises without content or promises grants without coverage. As the budget stands now, the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance are violating the budgetary rules on realistic budgeting. Section 3 of the Regulation states that expenditure should be realistic calculations. When you've promised $50,000 to apprentices and the average is 2,000, you'll need 100 million. kr, not the 10 million. kr as the government has set aside. My question is: Will the Minister of Finance complain to Stortinget, and to apprentices who are waiting for grants, that she has promised 50 000 kroner in the budget proposal to new apprenticeships, but has not granted more than 10 pst. of the money? And most of all, what will the Minister of Finance do to correct the error?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e591	The President would point out that 'bluff' is enough on the outside of parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e594	I'll try to answer this, even if it's the Minister of Knowledge's responsibility. I would like to begin by saying that I think it is alarming what kind of approach the representative Giske has to this, because this shows that the government's policy is working. This shows that the stimulation the government adds up to in and around the apprentice companies works. The fact that we're now getting more apprenticeship places, and the fact that we're getting more apprenticeships, is good. This simply means that we need to increase the appropriations for this purpose in the future – simply because the policy is working. What has been the problem for a very long time has been the opposite, namely that we have had challenges in the professional field, and we have had challenges with regard to enough apprenticeships. The fact that we're getting speed on this through both an incentive grant and an increased apprenticeship grant is good. The representative, Gishe, should also be happy about that. Rather, we will have to make sure that in the future budgets we allocate more money for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e603	With all possible respect: this answer is simply nonsense. If there are half as many new apprentices in 2014 as in 2013, there are still 40 million missing. kr on the budget line. There will be one tenth of what was received in 2013 to cover the budget line with a subsidy of NOK 50000 per enterprise. But it's more serious than that. When we discovered the error, we sent a letter on 21 May to the Minister of Finance asking about the deficit in this post and how the figure of 10 million. kr was obtained. In the answer from the Minister of Finance, there is nothing to say that 200 seats have been added, there is nothing to say that there have been 2,000 new seats each year, and there is nothing to say that there are tens of millions missing to cover the grant. It is only when TV2 starts digging that the minister of knowledge admits that 200 seats were destroyed in the autumn. But if one knew that in the fall, did one also know that on Friday when the Minister of Finance presented the Minister of Knowledge's answer to the Storting? You haven't given the information you're sitting on. The question is whether the Minister of Finance sees that she also violates her obligation to provide information to Stortinget, who is working seriously with a revised budget that should be realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e610	If it turns out that the Ministry of Knowledge has today made new assessments and updated estimates, it should of course be reflected in the final work on the revised budget of the Grand Duchy. I fully agree with the representative Giske. But I still believe that the main approach to this should be to this matter, namely that by stimulating the apprenticeship grant and the incentive grant, we actually achieve results. There'll be several places. It's going to be more activity. We should be happy about that and make sure to increase the allocation for the purpose, so that more young people can get the education they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e615	It opens up for additional questions – first Martin Kolberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e618	There was a confession in what the finance minister answered the last question – as I heard her. That's good, because I think we fully agree on the importance of apprenticeships. But what we want to clarify here is that the answers given to the Storing have not been correct. It has been asked quite specifically from the financial fraction about the development of the number of apprenticeships. The estimates have also been specifically asked. There the Minister of Finance answers – it is true that the Ministry of Knowledge responds, but it is the Minister of Finance who formally answers – that there is no overall overview of new recognized apprenticeships, and the Department therefore does not know how many apprenticeships that sign apprenticeships for the first time. That's exactly this point we'll have clarified, and I now heard the admission of the Minister of Finance. It is very good if she says that this was a crazy and not complete information, so that the Storting can handle this correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e625	I am still in the situation that I have to check this with the Ministry of Knowledge. They are responsible for this. If they believe that new estimates have now come to light that show a different trend, we must, of course, correct them. But I still believe that my main answer is that it is good that the incentives the government has strengthened in the budget, now seems to work, so that more young people get apprenticeship. This has been an expressed wish over a long period of time. And that the instruments work, that's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e630	Anne Tingelstad Wøien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e633	In its approach, the Minister of Finance says that it shows that government policy is working. At the same time, she has underlined in her own letter that one really does not know how many new apprenticeship places come every year. Then I don't understand how she can say that the new policy is working. We know it's going to be approx. 2 000 new apprenticeships each year. It should also be the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Knowledge. We also have the same challenges in the kindergarten field, and so I wonder if it's the way the government fools the populace around in municipalities, tricks business owners and has really cheated the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e640	I think it's a pretty dry claim. This government has no ambition to trick anyone. Rather, what we're concerned about on the contrary is facilitating more apprenticeships and more apprenticeships. The professional lift started this government in connection with the changes in the additional proposal in the autumn. That's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e646	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e649	I understand the Council of State that she agrees that there is not enough money for this measure and that there is a need for more in the years to come. In the government platform, there is a great deal of good about professionalism and investment in these industries and these areas, and much of this is also agreed by the Left. Among other things, the government has a rather ambitious target of attracting apprentices to public enterprises. The fact that the Council of State is now notifying more money to exactly this grant scheme is well and good, and we are looking forward to that. However, I also wonder whether the Minister of Finance is willing to look at other measures to stimulate enterprises to incite apprentices, such as: exemption from the employer’s fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e656	So the government started its professional career in the context of the additional proposition, and we allocated 114 million. kr for that purpose. That's a good start, because it turns out it works – both because we get more apprenticeships and more apprenticeships. If it turns out that up-to-date estimates show that this is a trend that goes much faster than the estimates we used in the budget, it is fundamentally positive, because then the stimulation works. So the question is whether there is a need for further stimulation to get it done. I believe that is an ongoing question we need to assess and come back to in connection with the annual government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e663	Karin Andersen – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e666	It seems that the government is struggling a little bit with the calculations for the time being. SV has asked about the background calculations for the kindergartens and received no good answer. Now we also hear that we do not get good answers – and get completely different answers – when it comes to apprentices. Both parts are important, because that's what the Council of State says: Politics works. People want kindergarten. They will not queue and wait for the government, which has made a faulty calculation, which KS has found to be incorrect, and which it would have been possible to fix now. Then it is also important to know whether the government during the process of revision is now ready to correct these errors, or whether to wait and look at this, and that then probably will not be enough money, either for apprenticeships or for the kindergartens that people have actually legislated for today. Can the Councils answer that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e673	When the government presented a revised budget for the Storting, we discussed the issue of kindergartens and cash support. We have also shown that when the previous government had a similar problem with the opposite sign in 2012, nothing was done about the weakness of the calculation tool, which is the dilemma we face. When the municipalities experienced in 2012 that the previous government cut off the cash support for two-year-olds, the opposite effect was achieved, namely that the municipalities put back more money than they really should have, and then nothing was done about it. In this situation, there is the reverse problem that has arisen, namely that the municipalities experience that they have less money than they should have had. This indicates that the calculation tool itself is wrong. That's why the government in the revised notification has told us that we're going to go through this with KS, so that we can get a better calculation tool that will help us reduce the risk of errors in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e685	Then the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e697	There will be a wide range of changes in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 1 and 2 from the representatives of Svein Roald Hansen and Anniken Huitfeldt, respectively, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 5, from the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister for Climate and Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy, who will direct him. Question 6, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge who directs him. Question 8, from the representative of Mr Sivertsen to the Minister for Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Jorid Holstad Nordmelan to the Minister for Knowledge, is addressed by the representative of Mr Arild Grande. Question 15, from the representative, Mr Micasen, to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Health and Welfare, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e720	This question, from Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e723	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘The Asian Human Rights Commission reports gross abuses, abductions and killings on baluchers in Pakistan and Iran. Recently, it was reported that there were three mass graves of 169 corpses exposed in the Khuzdar district of Pakistan and one grave of seven corpses in Iran. Will the government take the initiative to put the balut iron situation in Pakistan and Iran on the agenda at a meeting of the UN Human Rights Committee in Geneva?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e730	Norwegian authorities have followed closely the situation of balouts. In Iran, more mass executions in Sistan and Baluchistan have been reported in recent years. According to one of these reports, 16 Baluchish prisoners were hanged on 25 October 2013 as a retaliation for the attack on an Iranian border guard. The hanging happened despite the fact that the prisoners were demonstrably unable to have anything to do with the attack. In February of this year it was reported again that 15 baluchers had been executed in secret. Iranian Shia Muslim pilgrims have also been attacked and killed during their visits to the sacred places of the province. The hard-handed behaviour of the authorities against separatists and their lack of protection of the religious minorities in the province is critical. Local sources in Pakistan claim that 169 have been found to be equal this year, but it should be emphasised that official figures have not been published by the authorities. However, our embassy in Islamabad reports that there were bullet holes in several of the bodies, and that it is not the first time one discovers the dead in Baluchistan that bear the mark of being liquidated. There have been complaints for several years against the authorities that people have disappeared in this province, without evidence of what has happened. A citizen of Baluchish origin with whom the embassy in Islamabad has previously had contact was reported missing in Pakistan five years ago. He is still missing. After the founding of the mass graves in January, the Baluchian provincial government set up a legal commission to clarify what had happened. There is still no report. Furthermore, the previous Pakistani Supreme Justice Justice, Iftikhar Chaudhry, made an effort to get the cases relating to missing persons in Baluchistan, put up in court and held military authorities responsible where they thought there was a basis for it. Through judicial hearings under his leadership, it was clarified that some of the missing balouts are alive, and that they are kept locked up by the military in detention camps. A few have been released. Most of the persons included in the missing list drawn up by the Court of Justice remain unexplained. Work is in progress to identify the persons in the Khuzdar mass graves, but there is currently no report. In Pakistan Baluchistan it is Hazara, a Shia Muslim minority, who are increasingly being persecuted by extremist Sunni Muslim groups. In Iran, on the other hand, the baluts are Sunni Muslims, and they are discriminated against by the authorities. Common to the situation is that the Baluchistan provinces are among the poorest and least developed areas. The situation deserves international attention. Norway addressed the protection of minorities during the country hearing of Pakistan in 2012. Although minorities were addressed more generally, the Hazara in Baluchistan was mentioned in particular. It is natural for us from Norway to re-examine the situation of minorities during the forthcoming country hearing of Pakistan in October this year. We will then in particular question how Pakistan responds to the recommendations made during the 2012 hearing. We will consider whether the situation of minorities should also be addressed in the next country hearing of Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e745	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a population that it has been, and is, little attention around at least in the Norwegian public. Some baluchers live in Norway who are regularly in contact with us and who ask us to get more attention. I'm happy with what the council says, that it's been taken up, and that you want to take it up again. I think you might point out the situation of balouts. This is a people's group in an area where borders were transformed after World War II, which has lost its homeland, and the fact that they also lose the opportunity to have their culture, language and human rights is twice tragic. So I think it's important that we maintain the pressure on Iran and Pakistan regarding these abuses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e752	Let me say that I fully agree with that. The situation of minorities is important to the government; it is an important matter for the Norwegian authorities in the International Human Rights Forum, and not least for matters around Baluchistan. Let me add that in the case of Iran, we have also taken up the situation of minorities, among other things. in the discussions of the Political Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with his Iranian counterpart, among others. on human rights in the countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e759	I think I just thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e768	This question is from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The question is also answered by the Minister at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e771	‘When the Israeli President visited Norway, the Prime Minister said that she would increase trade with Israel. Was it clarified that the Free Trade Agreement between Norway and Israel applies to Israel within internationally recognised borders and not to goods produced by Israel in the occupied territory? If not, what does the government do specifically to clarify to Israeli authorities that the free trade agreement does not apply to goods produced in non-international Israeli settlements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e778	Norway recognized Israel in 1949. We recognize the state of Israel within the borders of the territory of Israel controlled before the war of 1967. During President Peres’ visit to Norway, these attitudes were taken into account in the discussions. Prime Minister Erna Solberg also presented Norway's position on the settlement policy in the press conference she held with Peres on 14 May. Norway has made it clear that the EFTA Free Trade Agreement with Israel applies only to the territory under Israeli control and internationally recognised before 4 June 1967. The EU Association Agreement with Israel is understood in a similar way by the EU. The EU has developed guidelines to ensure that EU funds cannot benefit institutions in the settlements. Norway will follow these guidelines in which we are involved in cooperation with the EU and Israel. These are guidelines such as: where Norwegian research institutions participate in EU research cooperation with Israel through Horizon 2020. When Israel entered the OECD in 2010, the Norwegian side also underlined the clear view that Israel’s membership of the OECD concerns only Israeli territory within internationally recognised borders from before 4 June 1967. This is still the current Norwegian policy. We have ongoing negotiations on new tax agreements between Israel and Norway, and in those negotiations the government bases the same view on the territorial demarcation of the State of Israel. We have presented to our opponent that our view is that the concept of the territory of Israel can only refer to the territory under Israeli control on 4 June 1967. This is in line with international law as expressed in UN Security Council Resolution 242 of 1967.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e791	That was probably a somewhat unclear answer to my specific question. So this was about the Prime Minister's signal when Peres was in Norway. Then she said that she would increase trade with Israel. We also support trade with Israel from the Labour Party, but was it made quite concrete that this did not apply to goods produced in the occupied territory? I know very well that we made it clear when our government set out, when it came to Israel's membership in the OECD, that this was the case within internationally recognised borders, but was it said by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or by the Prime Minister when President Peres was visiting Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e798	What we're talking about here is a well-known Norwegian position, which is clarified and taken into account in many different contexts, such as: in the conversation about a new tax agreement, where there is a new discussion and a new agreement. That's what we're thinking about. It is not a vision that is taken up in every possible context, precisely because it is the basis of Norwegian policy towards Israel, and it is a vision that is very well known to Israeli authorities. When we add up and want to increase trade with Israel, there is an increase in trade with Israel based on the view we have of Israel's territorial demarcation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e805	I understand that the government was not particularly concerned when President Peres was in Norway – either in bilateral talks or in public – that it should be clarified that this should not be done in areas of international law. It is also a signal that it is not addressed when the signal is outwardly increasing trade, but it is not mentioned – either on a two-man basis or in public – that this should be done in internationally recognised areas. When the government hasn't said this outside, what will the government do to clarify this? This government has said that they will have increased attention to human rights, but why is the government so clear about Russia's violations of international law against Ukraine, and not say one word when they signal an increase in trade with Israel?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e812	As I said, this view is fundamental. It is a natural and long-term view, and attitude, from the Norwegian side. But I must be allowed to thank the representative Huitfeldt for the opportunity to clarify this publicly, so there should be no misunderstanding that that policy is firm. I am pleased with the support for the ambition to increase trade, but there is therefore an increase in trade based on the clear view that Norwegian governments have had and continue to have of Israel's territorial integrity and demarcation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e823	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘The size has been expressed through the predatory agreement to ensure both the sustainable populations of wild game and the continued active and versatile use of the land resources. The working party is concerned with anti-conflict measures in the problem of grazing industries vs. Crustaceans, inter alia: compensation schemes for the loss of predatory game. Proposal for a new replacement regulation is now on the table of the Council of State. Can the Council of State provide information on the status of this work and what changes are planned, if any?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e832	As the representative of Odd Omland, I am concerned that we are responsible for achieving the stock targets for the large predators in priority breeding areas for predatory game. At the same time, we must create the most predictable and robust solutions for grazing. This is in line with the two-part objective pursued in the 2011 Robbery Agreement. The representative of Odd Omland is committed to implementing measures that contribute to minimising conflict. It's an ambition I'm sharing completely. That is why I work with the Minister for Agriculture and Food, among others. stressed the need for predators to operate more clearly zone management in their region. It provides for a clearer distinction between areas for wild game and areas for grazing animals. It will provide a more robust and predictable management with less conflicts. As regards the replacement regulation for domestic animals that are killed or injured by predatory game, I can inform you that the revised regulation was adopted on 30 May and entered into force on 1 June 2014. The revised regulation provides a better basis for the proper measurement of compensation, while streamlining the treatment of claims. There is an access to information that will improve the ability of administrative authorities to clarify other causes of livestock loss on grazing than predatory game. This will improve the possibility of measuring the most appropriate replacement for grazing animals taken by predatory game. Furthermore, a new main system is in place for a standardised substitution calculation. If four basic conditions are met, the compensation authority shall consider any loss in addition to normal loss as likely to be lost to predatory game. This will simplify treatment. It is important for me to stress that this standardisation does not restrict today’s right to full compensation. In addition, some other minor changes have been made to the regulation. Overall, this provides a basis for more knowledge-based management, less need for discretion and more efficient handling of cases. In addition to these changes that have entered into force, no changes to the replacement regulation are currently planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e849	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State says, I have also understood that the regulation was adopted after the question was asked. I am pleased that the government has taken note of the so-called Krokan judgment and thus transferred the burden of proof in the event of the loss of predators to the authorities. However, what was behind my question is that the industry has expressed concern about the new guidelines developed in Section 4. The new guidelines contain the following: ‘It is the damage which one cannot avoid, which shall be covered by the compensation scheme.’;» The industry's view is that this is a sharpening. Does the Council share the industry's concern here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e865	I do not share that concern, because there is no change in the burden of proof. What is new now is that the sheep owner must provide information on herd data for the sheep population. I really think that the administration is now getting a better basis of fact, and that knowledge will make it easier for the administration to determine proper compensation. So I don't share the concern. I believe that the regulation now simplifies this, and that there is now less use of discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e872	The right to full compensation, to which the Council of State was entitled, is enshrined in Section 19 of the Nature Diversity Act. But what concerns the industry is the consequences of the new guidelines, which we were talking about here, and the refusal of compensation for non-responses, such as drug addiction. those referred to in the guidelines: early lowering, late grazing, use of watchdogs, grazing or movement of animals to a new area. Can the Council of State confirm that the measures referred to here are not being practised in such a way that it remains the discretionary exercise of the State that becomes decisive and that the right to full compensation, pursuant to Section 19, is established?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e879	As I explained in my initial reply, the claim for damage documentation is now reduced when the four basic criteria are met. This means that when the four conditions are met, all losses above normal losses are considered as probable losses to robbers. This means that one shall not pass through further discretion or other moments before full compensation is awarded. I think it will be a simplification of the procedure, which will benefit both management and animal owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e884	The President now sees that we are missing both representatives and current state councils, but I also see that we have both the representative Sonja Mandt and the state councillor Torbjørn Røe Isaacen present, and therefore I think we should be a little flexible about the order of the questions today. I now inform those who follow the questionnaire from their offices and TV screens that the handling of the questions has gone a little faster today. Now we go to question 10 from the representative Sonja Mandt, who will be asked his question to the Council of State Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e895	We're in a hurry. ‘At the University’s national meeting a few weeks ago, the Council of State stated: ‘The teacher’s vow is not only for the school, we also need a child’s hail.’ How and where has the Council of State prioritised this promise?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e904	Thank you for the first of many questions in this questionnaire. It is nice to come to Stortinget and tell you a little about the government's results. We have never spent more money on quality in kindergarten than we do now. Why is that important? Well, that's important because the key to quality -- we know that the quality differences in kindergartens are great -- are staff. It's the kindergarten teachers, the college teachers and the kids. To be quite specific, the budget for the year has 200 additional places for workplace-based kindergarten teachers, compared with 2013. There are 150 different places for national leadership training for pediatricians, compared to 2013, which was the last year the red-green ones put in power. There are 570 places in total for study places for empowerment of assistants in kindergarten, which is a 30-point programme — to mention something.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e917	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We know that every third employee of the nursery has education as a teacher, and many of the questions I have asked about kindergartens, the council has had to explain, or he has pushed responsibility over to the previous government, or he has told the Storting about everything to review and review. But here he tells us what's in the current year's budget. However, I would like to say: on the website of the Education Association, we can read what Røe Isaksen has said about kindergartens and knowledge. He says clearly that they have started the work of strengthening the kindergarten law, and that they include kindergartens in the teacher's vow. Then it is no wonder that we want to know how and where to do this. Now he's in position to say something about what he himself says is necessary. Is the money in the teacher's vow to be shared with the kindergartens, or is there any fresh money for them? Should they be earmarked for kindergartens, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e928	The quality promise and the kindergarten teacher's lift are being made by the government. In this context, there are two things that are important, as I described in this year's budget: The first thing that matters is that we provide continuing training, further training and the possibility to develop locally in kindergartens. That's what the government is doing. There is money put into it in this year’s budget – a budget where we have never spent more on quality in kindergarten. The second is getting more kindergarten teachers in. According to the SSB, it is approx. 4,400 kindergarten teachers in need. We can't fill it up overnight. I think the Labour Party and the Government agree on that. But then we have to do exactly as the government does: bet on e.g. workplace-based kindergarten teacher training, where there are 200 additional places this year, compared to last year. I have an ambition to continue in the budgets that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e937	There's already 1 billion missing. kr in the nursery sector. The cuts made by the government — especially in terms of expansion — will not exactly recruit professionals and attract new skills, nor will people want to take the place of study that educates for work in a kindergarten sector that is being reduced, as we see it. We've had a lot of campaigns to recruit people to the sector, as the Council of State also says, and good local economy was something that the red-green government was concerned about. The impatience we saw in opposition, on the part of the Council of State, lacks – at least in my view – a little now. Can he tell me what they knew in the opposition about the measures that were necessary and to which the Council of State refers, which you now have to check out more about? Can the Council of State say anything about what concrete measures he sees further, and which he has promised the Educational Association in the Teachers' Lift? I don't think anyone here disagrees that the government has a review force, but we're probably in complete doubt about the implementation force.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e948	As I said, the quality bet in kindergarten is going on, and I have an ambition to continue with it. There are 200 extra places this year, compared to last year, and these are state funds. While there is a difference between the teacher’s vow and the nursery teacher’s vow, the temporary employment costs are not covered by the kindergarten teacher’s vow, the state money goes to, for example: that more people should be able to work in kindergarten while taking kindergarten education. 200 more places are an important contribution. There are 150 different places this year compared with last year's National Leadership Training for Children's Court Governors. It is a direct contribution to the quality of kindergartens. I will not stand in Stortinget and say that this is the quality promise in the kindergartens finished. We intend to be in government for several years, and therefore I repeat: I am both impatient and have even higher ambitions in this field, but that the government is delivering – there can be no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e957	Now we go back to the original order of the questions and welcome the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e964	I am sorry that I had seen errors in the question order. But here is at least my question to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘In a letter dated 26 March 2014, the ESA Government warns that it will be able to bring an action before the EFTA Court for breach of the Air Quality Directive if the government does not submit a plan to address the health damage to the air quality that exists in several cities, but in particular in Oslo. So far, the government has not shown the will to do anything about the main problem, which is car traffic, but instead prioritises the development of new up to 14-field E18 that will exacerbate health problems. What is the equivalent of the population of ESA and Oslo to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e973	The Air Quality Directive was adopted in the EU in 2008 and adopted by the Stortinget in 2012. ESA has already pointed out that several Norwegian cities in Norway exceeded the Directive’s limit values between 2008 and 2012. This is a problem the government has inherited, and we're working on solving. ESA has moved on to the case against Norway for breach of the Air Quality Directive and considers this to be an infringement of EEA law. Norway has recently replied and ESA is now considering whether to bring the matter before the EFTA Court. Road traffic is the main source of exceedances. We work along two concrete tracks to solve the problem. In the longer term, cleaner vehicles and increased bets on collective, bicycle and gangways shall contribute to the reduction of local air pollution. In the short term, we will work with the municipalities to find solutions to the more acute situations. Municipalities are the local air quality pollution authority, with the primary responsibility for implementing measures to improve air quality and develop action studies. That's why we're going to work closely with the municipalities. For example, I have to do this. Press enquiries: Mary Brazier (Strasbourg) tel.(33) 3 881 73785 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42672 e-mail : The work for better local air quality is a matter that the government takes seriously. In response to ESA, sent on 26 May of this year, Norway reports in detail on ongoing and planned work on improving local air quality. Among other things, we report that a working group should be set up to assess the need for additional local air quality instruments. In addition, the Environment Directorate will now follow up the work of municipalities on air quality much more closely. Finally, in the case of E18, it's a little bit misleading to talk about the 14-field road into Oslo. Here's what we're talking about: both local roads, motorway fields and collective fields. The planned expansion shall include, inter alia: improving the accessibility of buses and contributing to more coherent public networks around Oslo. The climate agreement states that the growth of metropolitan areas is to be achieved by collective, bicycle and gangways. It is an important objective which could contribute to improving air quality in the long term. The Government will cooperate with major cities on the instruments necessary to achieve the objectives of air quality and traffic management.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e988	The people of Oslo do not ask for a working group. The population of Oslo is asking for concrete measures to avoid breathing in harmful air. The health-damaging air is the worst for Oslo's population. In Bergen there has been a positive development with a reduction in pollution that is a target. In Oslo, we haven't seen anything similar. What concrete action and action is the Minister for the Environment – after thinking about it since the last time we spoke to her – going to propose to the people of Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e995	As I said in my first answer, this is a problem we inherited from the previous government, which did not find good solutions to this. We are now working closely with the municipalities to find solutions to this problem. It is we who have now set up a working group across several departments to look at additional instruments to improve local air quality. It is also we who have asked the Environment Directorate to follow up more closely the work of local authorities on action investigations in this area. We want to find, together with the municipalities, who are primarily responsible for this, a solution to a challenge that both the previous government and this government are taking seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1000	In the hearing opinions, the fagetaten in Oslo Municipality has linked to parts of the regulatory plan of the neighbouring municipality of Bærum, among others. put forward the harmful air and that the road planned will not achieve the objectives set in the Air Quality Directive. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: is it that the Council of State will implement the development of roads that contribute to poorer air quality and further damage to the population of Oslo, and further breaks ESA's recommendations, or is it that the Council of State will say that we are doing what is needed to ensure that the population of Oslo is given an air that is not harmful to health and that we are following the laws that we have adopted here?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1007	We are concerned, in close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, to provide the people of Oslo with a good air quality. With regard to the plans for roads west of Oslo, I said in my reply that it improves the accessibility of buses and contributes to a more coherent collective network around Oslo. It is precisely the kind of action that we also need to take in order to meet the objective of the climate agreement, which we fully agree on: the growth of traffic must be taken through corridors, bicycles or public transport. Then we must also have roads that make the buses come out in a better way, so I do not see the contrast in this as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås takes up. We are in complete agreement. We need to find a solution to this. It was a challenge for the previous government not to find a solution, but we want close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo to solve this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1016	This question, from the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister for Climate and Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1019	«This spring, too, landowners in Gudbrandsdalen are severely affected by flooding from the Gudbrand valley. In the 1960s, there was a ban on the extraction of gravel from the Low. This has led to the fact that eleven places now are so shallow that the only way the water can take is to land and properties outside the river. It will take several years for the management plan of actions to be completed and actions to be implemented. Will the Council of State now take immediate action to remedy the situation of the God-fired beer that is once again being hit hard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1026	In recent years there have been several floods, including: in the valley of Gudbrand. Together with the knowledge we have about climate change and increasing rainfall levels, this means that social security should be a high priority when dealing with issues of river mass withdrawal. In the Gudbrand valley basin, the accumulation of gravel and sand in the river over time has increased the flood potential in the valley. The purpose of flood suppression must nevertheless be balanced against other considerations such as the environment and safety elsewhere along the watercourse. Environmental considerations will be important in dealing with security issues, including mass take-offs. This is because physical changes in and around the watercourses affect habitats for plants and animals, not least the large trout, which I perceive locals are also concerned about. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate and County State assess the changes that a hedging facility or a mass take-off will make to the watercourse environment. In the event of good planning and technical implementation, it is possible to carry out mass take-offs to ensure both flood considerations and fishing interests. However, it requires good interaction between the State authorities concerned and local actors. I – and certainly the representative – know that a comprehensive management plan for the Low is under preparation. It is important to see things in context, and the plan will contribute to this. Social security will be an important consideration in this plan, and it will facilitate the coordinated, efficient and rapid handling of such issues. In some cases, even before the plan is completed, it will, of course, be both correct and necessary to implement measures, and I am committed to facilitating it through effective procedures in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1035	Thanks for the answer. I grasped the straw straw I heard, that there could occasionally be opportunities for immediate action. I stand here with the draft management plan for the Gudbrand Valley Battle. It was sent out to the hearing in February, and there have probably been some answers to the hearing now. The plan shall be completed by 2017. So this is the next magnification period. We know that there has been flooding in the Gudbrand Valley for three of the last four years, and action in the Gudbrand Valley is urgent. I will quote something that was said to NRK Hedmark and Uppland on 26 May: «Flood protection must be built at the same time as gravel must be extracted from the Gudbrand valley bed. That is what the Agricultural Policy Spokesman of the Progress Party says on Stortinget, Morten Ørsal Johansen. He believes that agriculture in the Gudbrand valley is so important that everything must be done to prevent the land from being constantly flooded." Is the Council of State saying the same thing as its colleague, or is it more important to wait for measures to be taken after the next flooding period — and to run the risk of constant flooding? I am still asking about immediate measures, which are smaller measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1047	The Council of State agrees with the representative that it is important to protect both life and values along the Low. However, I am not familiar with the description that I should have heard of, that it is not already being acted on – because it is done. There is also an opportunity to apply for mass take-offs. In that case, something the administration is responsible for authorising, and that is already happening today. Then I would like to say that the last period the Ministry of Oil and Energy sent out a letter – with the title: Deepening of watercourses as flood protection – where it was stressed that social security must be given greater importance when dealing with applications for mass take-offs. It is important to put in place a comprehensive management plan. It will help to improve precision and speed up the process in the future. But it's not like the authorities are waiting for this plan to come – and they're holding hands until it's in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1058	Thanks for the answer. I think we agree on a cross-political basis that it makes sense with a management plan for the Gudbrand Valley Battle, that one looks at the whole of the Low and the side rivers as a whole. Yesterday, the County Committee of the Uppland County Municipality took a decision asking for immediate action to be taken in the Low. It will essentially mean – I think – mass withdrawal, i.e. a gravel roof. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State opens up the possibility of applying for such measures already this year, and that we may be able to get a yes to this from the relevant authorities – who may not be this Council of States – so that we can start action already during this summer. I wonder if the Council of State can confirm it.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1067	I can confirm that it may not be particularly wise to proceed with proceedings from the Parliamentary Chair. NVE has an important role to play in this. The NVE has been present for some time now heavily in the case of the Low, and will continue to work on it. The NVE is responsible for prioritising the state funds and the efforts made by the State in the area of flood and tailor-made protection. They also have a management responsibility for the type of activity in Norwegian watercourses that a mass take-off would entail. As I said, it is not that the fact that a comprehensive management plan is being worked on means that nothing should be done in the period until the plan is completed. I am very pleased that we seem to agree that this is a good principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1080	This question, from the representative Jan Bøhler to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, will be answered by the Minister for Knowledge who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1083	I allow myself to ask the following questions, now to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In municipalities like Oslo, reception classes are often placed in schools where there is a high proportion of students with a minority background. This may go beyond the possibilities of getting a Norwegian-speaking school environment into play, learning and association for the benefit of students in reception classes as well as those who go to school already. This situation arises in particular in cities where there is a relatively short distance between high and low minority schools. Will the Council of State ask the UDI to cooperate with the municipalities in order to find better solutions for the placement of reception classes?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1092	I am concerned about both children and equality, so it is nice to answer the question as the right councillor. Children of primary school age are entitled to primary education if the child is likely to be in Norway for more than three months. Once the stay has been for three months, compulsory primary education is required. It's the school owner, the municipalities, who's responsible for all primary education. The government is concerned that short-term students in Norway receive a good training offer, so that they can learn Norwegian quickly and follow regular education. This applies to all pupils, regardless of the reasons for immigration. The law opens up the possibility for municipalities to provide newcomers with training in a specially organised introduction offer for up to two years. The aim of training in an introductory offer is that students should learn Norwegian as soon as possible, be able to achieve the skills objectives of the Knowledgelift and follow the regular training. Primary students have the right to attend their secondary school, i.e. in the school closest to home or in the community school to which the student is implicated. New entrants of primary school age have the right to attend secondary school, unless they choose to accept an introduction offer for newly arrived students at a school other than the secondary school. When primary school students no longer attend an introductory offer, the student has the right to attend a secondary school. Introduction offers may be made in separate classes at a school or in partially integrated offers in a class. Large municipalities tend to establish introductory schools or introductory classes, while small municipalities integrate pupils into ordinary classes with special language training. Introduction classes — or reception classes, as the questioner calls it — are often established in the secondary school of newly arrived students or in some schools in the municipality. It is up to each municipality to choose whether to have an introduction offer, where appropriate – as well as content and organisation. The Ministry of Knowledge sees the use of introductions as useful, as it enables students to learn Norwegian and participate in regular training.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1107	I thank you for your answer. The problem here is: even in Oslo, where there are relatively many reception classes and many students with a minority background, only a small number of schools have reception classes. Even in areas with schools where over 90 pst. Of the students with a minority background and other mother tongues, other schools have a much smaller proportion of students with a minority background. Nevertheless, the reception classes are largely assigned to schools with the highest proportion of students with a minority background from before. My question is whether the government wants the UDI, the Directorate of Mangfold and others who work to succeed in housing, good integration and rapid Norwegian training to do more to influence municipalities to place the reception classes in sensible places rather than in schools where the proportion of people who are weak in Norwegian is increasing. This applies both in the schoolyard, in play and in learning — all purposes — for the best of both parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1116	I totally understand the problem. We could have had long, good and interesting discussions about this. The question I have to deal with is whether we should change the responsibilities of the municipalities today, and that the state – UDI, Mangfoldsdirektoratet or others – should enter and govern the municipalities more than today. I don't think it's a good idea. I think it is better to leave responsibility to the municipality. Then the municipality – the local politicians – has to take responsibility for integrating and addressing exactly the kind of questions that the representative of Bohemia addresses. I want to say that the discussion about what is an appropriate way to solve this, I hope the municipalities have. But there is a discussion that should take place in the local governments or in the urban government hall in Oslo, and that the state should not go into and review through national schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1123	I thank you for the appropriate response and understanding for the problem. What I think is that in the settlement process – when the state and the municipality work together to achieve a successful settlement and integration – it should be part of the state's role to discuss with the municipality if you have a proper thinking around this. The problem of success is that students who have an ethnic Norwegian background do not move from their schools to other schools because there is an excessive proportion who are weak in Norway, is a common problem. The state should also be interested in how we succeed in this around the municipalities. It is to reinforce the problem of misposition of the reception classes — when, after all, there is a small minority of the schools in Oslo that have reception classes. I think this should also be something to the state, which is working on integration, interested in.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1130	Here we are moving into an area that is not my responsibility: UDI and the settlement of refugees. I have to deal with what's the educational policy part of it. One of the questions that comes automatically then – since I cannot answer questions about housing – is: When you first live, should you initially have the right to attend the secondary school? It has been an important principle in Norway that small students, even in those municipalities that allow parents to choose differently, should have the right to attend secondary school. But then the municipalities have the opportunity to create this in other schools as well. I don't see anything educational policy about it or whatever the state should do with the educational policy side of it, so the question of UDI's role I almost have to refer to the relevant State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1139	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Employment and Social Affairs: ‘According to the School Department of the Back Association in Norway, since the winter of 2013, Nav has changed the practice of granting care to relatives of newly operated patients between 12 and 18 years of age. While this was previously granted, all applications are now rejected. It is essential that newly-operative children and young people, including those over 12 years of age, are provided with the necessary assistance during the first four weeks after the operation in order to achieve its success. Will the Council of State ensure that Nav resumes its previous practice of granting such applications?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1148	I choose to give the representative Hansen the following simple answer: Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1153	Then I thank you for that. I think there are many out there who have been rejected, who will now rejoice that the Council of State will ensure that the practice is resumed. The alternative would be – as four consultants from Oslo University Hospital have written to the Council of State – that they stay at the local hospital to prevent them from making movements and not being able to calm down, so that the operation is successful. I hope that the Council of State will show considerable effectiveness and ensure that Nav now resumes its practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1158	The reason I was so clear and clear in my first answer is that I have also had a close dialogue with Nav, the department has had dialogue with Nav. In the past, schooliosis was not considered to be a chronic disease, and ergo one could not receive care after 12 years of age. New medical assessments that have been carried out show that even if you do an operation, you do not have to get well. You can still have those plagues, and then it's important to facilitate good rehabilitation and get the ability to function in a good way. This is why Nav has also changed its guidelines to ensure that more than 12 years of service are also provided, provided – naturally – that the conditions for care are met. Then I want – if the representative Hansen asks a follow-up question – to continue with my answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1165	I just want to conclude by saying that I believe the Council of State now used the keyword, namely rehabilitation. I have wondered if this matter has been in a blind spot because one has discussed whether this is chronic or not. It's chronic, but that's not the point, because it's the first weeks after the operation this is all about. Even if you were to recover from the operation, you would need this rehabilitation phase in order not to have a wasted operation, to use that expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1170	That's an important indication of what the representative Hansen is saying. I think it is important to keep the pressure on care matters, because we also see a lot of seriously ill children who do not get the help we want them to have. This is why the government has announced that a comprehensive review of both the care allowance system and the care pay system should be carried out. It says in the government platform that we want to reform the care scheme. We're looking at how this can be done. It's a bigger, more comprehensive job, and it's important to be able to get that work done in such a way that you get a good, functional code, not least for the vulnerable groups that need it. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative raises this question, because it makes us aware once again of the challenges some people face with different diagnostics at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1190	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1198	‘In the treatment of the Single European Act Straightway — Quality and diversity in the single school, Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, the current government parties Right and Advance Party proposed that a clear deadline for transition to a five-year master-based primary school teacher training should be confirmed. Now the Right Party and the Advance Party have had government power in a whole big session, and my question is therefore: What is the clear deadline for the transition of the Council of State to a five-year primary school teacher education?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1205	The Government aims to introduce a five-year teacher training programme from 2017.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1210	I hear what the Council of State says, but the matter is that there have been quite massive elections and quite concrete proposals from the opposition in Stortinget. The first party leaders did when they started negotiations on the platform, that is to say that now the teacher is going to be five years old. It was incredibly easy to fix that time, for example, just looking at Finland. Today, just before the Questionnaire and here in the Chamber, it is confirmed – of course and of course – but only with action during the next majority period. I almost have to ask the Council of State: what's new since 2013? Why is it just an ambition to aim for the introduction of master’s education and not a clear deadline, as you clearly confirmed in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1217	Firstly, when I say that the government is aiming to do this from 2017 – in 2017 and in general before – it is a quite clear deadline. So point two: precisely because this is a major reform, we have to start early. One of the challenges is that it is a little unclear whether this has been the Labour Party's policy. The Workers' Party has sometimes given the impression that you want master's education, and sometimes you have said that you want more five-year-old teacher training courses, and sometimes you have been very critical about it. The government is now starting up, and this will have major consequences. A framework plan needs to be drawn up, institutions need to adapt, several of the colleges that currently have teacher training must also build up their own professional environments for it. It'll take some time, but the government is running, and we're not going to deliver this election promise saying that nothing is going to happen until the next majority period. This work is in progress, we are now starting and delivering on the election promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1226	I noticed that it was easy to ask for a clear deadline in 2013, but that it is not quite as easy to ask for it today. But we have to leave it. ‘Praksisshock’ is a word invented by Norwegian teachers and teachers. The internship occurs when the teacher goes from being on the school bench to self-directing the classroom. How to conduct a parent’s meeting, what to do if you have a student who experiences difficult things, and how to actually write an IOP – these are things that are experienced through practice and that cannot be learned in a lecture situation. Does the Council of State think that a research-based master's project is the best medicine to avoid the practice of newly-trained teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1233	A master's task is by definition research-based. Then you write a master's degree problem, it's a research-based master's degree problem. I fully agree that the practical shock is a very big problem, but the question back to the Workers' Party – which he does not have to answer – is: Do you mean, for example, that. that those who have five years of teacher training at the University of Tromsø are less fit to enter school? Do you think those who have a five-year master's degree from the University of Agder are less fit to enter school? According to the master's code, a master's task today is to be between 20 and 30 study credits. It does not eat up a two-year master's education, it does not eat up a five-year master's education. At best, it eats up parts of a last six months. The fact that there is to be a contrast between the government's ambition to raise quality in school, to introduce master education for all teachers, to allow professional immersion while having close contact with the labour market and to be in practice requires that you be a worker party representative to understand. In addition, most of the master’s tasks are just a central part of research. It's e.g. to go to a school and see how teaching works there, how the relationship between teacher and student works, how mathematics or Norwegian works. There's no difference here, just at the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1240	The President then expects the IOP to be a ‘individual training plan’, recommending a full opinion of the whole concept, so that it is informative to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1243	Question 10 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1250	This question, from the representative of Jorid Holstad Nordmelan to the Minister of Knowledge, is raised by the representative of Arild Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1253	‘I refer to Innst. 380 S for 2012–2013: ‘A second majority, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, consider it important to ensure that kindergartens have good staffing, and are pleased that the government will introduce a requirement for ground crew in the kindergarten in one adult per three young children’s seats and one adult per six children’s seats by 2020.’; [[1:3]] [[1:6]] Is that reducing the appropriation by 700 million? a follow-up to the ambition to increase the pedagogical density of Norwegian kindergartens?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1260	We have never spent more money on quality and content in kindergartens than we do in this year's budget. The kindergarten teacher's vow is in progress, and the core, the key to higher quality in kindergartens, are the employees who are there, both kindergarten teachers, the professionals and the others. If you take a look at what the government has actually done, one example is workplace-based kindergarten teacher training: in 2013, that is, last year, there were 143 places, this year there are 343 places. Now my bill is not all, very strong side, but this should mean that it has been more than a double. This is government money. There have been 150 seats for national managers’ training for directors. This is bet on quality. Increased appropriations from 2013 to 2014 to drive team construction and school competence development build quality. Increased appropriations in the State budget, from this government, from 2013 to 2014, will ensure that even more people who have a professional letter will have the opportunity to take teacher training. All of this is an important contribution to quality. Then I have earlier in this room up to several times answered the calculations with cash support and kindergarten and refer to previous answers that have been thoroughly explained in the storeroom.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1271	I fully agree that the most important factor in improving quality is the employees in kindergarten. It has the Storting fixed repeatedly. Then there is a lot of good competence among the employees, who were started by the previous government, and who the new government is following up. It was sketched in several large-scale messages in the previous period and supported by a total increase. So there's nothing new lying there. I would like the ambitions of course to be slightly higher, but it is good that most things are followed up – in line with what we put up to from the Red-Green Government. One thing is to bet on those who already work in the sector, but we have a challenge to get more people to want to work in this sector. Then, issues such as wages, working conditions and pension conditions are absolutely essential to attract more people. At that time, the requirement of the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager to increase non-discrimination between the private and the public was that this should be done in order to increase wages and pension rights. What does the Council of State do to ensure that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1280	Our ambitions are higher. It's strange that the red-green parties sometimes say that the quality ambitions in the kindergartens are too low, when this government has spent more money than the previous government on it. And we don't have plans to stop either. It is not that the quality effort in kindergartens is over with the budget in 2014 – we intend to sit for a long time. Kindergarten quality is one of the main areas of activity of this government. Then I fully agree that it is important to motivate more people to work in kindergartens. Increased non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens has been the subject of a cross-political agreement. Kristin Halvorsen, former Minister of Knowledge, also said that there should be increased equal treatment between public and private kindergartens. They took one step in that direction. It is up to the parties to negotiate the terms and conditions of employment and the pension. It's neatest also that it's like that. The great grip of the previous government was to have a recruitment campaign in the kindergarten. It has received some criticism, but has also had a lot of good for it. We continued it this year. But it's not given that it's the best way to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1289	It is quite right that the Council of State says that the previous government has put a great deal of emphasis on quality. The growth in budgets for direct employment in terms of quality and skills for employees was high under the red-green government. It is true that out of a 50-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. I'm So the growth in dollars you spend on this is really slowing down with the new government. This is what we see in the whole sector. The view of the sector is changing. The ambitions are about to stop. Where we promised several places and provided it in the budgets, it stops with the new government. Where we promised a massive bet, so that more people would have the opportunity to be in kindergarten, it stopped working with the new government. There is a lack of money in the kindergarten, and we have also seen in the past that there is a lack of money in other fields that the Ministry of Knowledge has. Where was Røe Isaksen when the rest of the government discussed the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1296	The councils were sitting in the room -- I was sitting in the room with all the others. I believe that the municipal budget is also sound. Well, if I don't remember wrong, it's about the same growth that's been on average in recent years. The ambitions are very high in the kindergarten field. But we probably have a different angle of incidence than the red-greens, because where the red-greens were quite one-sidedly occupied with quantity, we're also concerned with quality. I believe that one of the biggest challenges in kindergartens is that there are too many quality differences between kindergartens. Then the key is the employees. My ambition is not just to deliver the budget in 2014 – my and the government's ambition is to deliver a budget in 2015, 2016 and 2017 as well. The quality promise in kindergarten must be our ambition to continue. So there's no lack of ambition – we've also started delivering and delivering more than what the red-greens did in terms of quality in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1309	‘Rights were chosen to ‘help other groups at school free up time for teachers and school management’. In the course of the process of the Single European Act, on the right, quality and diversity in the single school, together with the Progress Party, the Left and Christian People’s Party, the government asked to ‘present proposals with concrete measures to increase the participation of other groups of professionals in the school’. What concrete action has the Council of State taken to increase the inclusion of other groups of professionals in school, and how much time has this freed teachers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1316	Since other occupational groups are involved in the school, it is most natural here to cooperate with other departments. In 2014, the Health Minister has set aside 100 million. to employ more psychologists to work with young people in secondary education, precisely because it is known that several psychologists who can work directly towards secondary school are an important contribution both to getting more albuerom, more time, and an important contribution to getting rid of, or at least to being treated and discovered, mental health problems among young people. We have also proposed a further 200 million more health stations and school health services. kr in the municipal proposal. They are not earmarked, but nevertheless there is a very clear signal from the government that we also want more health sisters in. So the government has made that concrete now. And we have three more years to do even more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1323	I thank you for your answer. The question was what the Minister of Knowledge has done specifically to get other occupational groups into school. There are also many measures that can be taken in his area, either to free up time for teachers or to relieve teachers by allowing others to take on work that teachers need to do today, such as: everything from copying and janitorial services to inspection, conflict resolution and psychosocial work. The red-green government came up with some measures. It removed 50,000 reports that teachers are now free to fill in. It made sure that the PP service gets closer in schools, and many other measures. No one says it's enough – a lot remains. No one expects the government to solve this problem in its first year, but most people expect the government to start delivering on what they promised before the election. An example of this is that before the right of this Chamber, it was suggested that a specific escalation plan be adopted for other occupational groups – implemented as a sprawl layer between the State and the municipalities. Now the party itself has government power and the question is: Has the Council of State started such work and is the dialogue with the municipalities in progress?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1332	If you're going to do something about the psychosocial environment in school, you have to look at, for example: more psychologists. We've been sitting for eight months, and the preliminary phase I've already read up – 100 million. to employ several psychologists to work with young people in higher education. This is a very concrete contribution. In addition, a strengthening of the healthcare and health centre services is within the budget for the next year. Then I fully agree – and I have said it several times in this room – that it is a problem that, especially in the last eight years, teachers have reported more bureaucracy and more time thieves. It is possible that the figure is 50,000 votes, but the experience in school is that there have been more bureaucracy and more time thieves. We took over a report – I’m not going to say that it had been put in the drawer, but at least there had not been any concrete follow-up work on it – and now we’re working with KS and certain schools to clarify what the time is. Then we have to get back to how we're going to remove them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1339	It's very good to bet on psychologists and on school health services. I understand that there are questions about this later today. The lesson after the red-green government granted 180 million. kr – was well – until that, is that only half has been used for the purpose in the municipalities. There is therefore a need for stronger action in this area. But the concern of many is that all the good wishes you might have, and all the good promises the parties may have made, are eaten up and not carried out because of poor municipal economy. The local economy is the main prerequisite for having a good school, getting more professionals and getting more teachers in place. So now there's no money for kindergartens, for which it's undercover, and incentives for apprentices, and the government's proposal for a local economy has got the Education Association to say that they're worried that it can reduce service provision and cut. So the message for many teachers is: the good news is that you get a little bit more training; the bad news is that you might lose your job. Does the State Council share the concern of the Federation of Education that the local economy can now cut school and offer poorer services?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1346	263 million. kr extra to a teacher's vow, including the means of continuing training, is not a bit more. This is a huge increase. Now, when a historical number of teachers fit, it's not just because the teachers are eager about it. That's because we've given the municipalities money to do that, for example. by increasing the rate of the country’s share to 60 pst. in all continuing training and 75 pst. in mathematics and natural sciences. The question was basically what the government has done after eight months. I mean, we're not just doing well. We have also delivered in several areas such as psychologists and school health services. It's important. Then we also have three years to follow up the rest of the platform, including. the formulations for the inclusion of more professional groups. Besides what's already done, alongside the fact that there are now more psychologists coming to work in high school, and besides strengthening the school health service, we have even higher ambitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1357	‘Should the maritime industry continue to lead the world, it depends on a good education system and good recruitment along the whole value chain. Norway’s combination of academic and experience-based competences is unique in a global context and perhaps one of our most important competitive advantages internationally. But the education offer is fragmented at all levels. Is this a priority area for the Council of State and, if so, when can we expect concrete action to come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1364	The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Prime Minister has announced a strategy for the maritime industries in spring 2015. It will also be part of the Ministry of Knowledge and make clear and strong contributions to it, precisely because the issue addressed, with maritime education, is an area where we have major problems. We still don't have enough recruitment. There are also structural problems that we should do something about and address better than today. So the short answer is: 2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1369	Thanks for the answer so far, but I feel that you repeat what has been said in a lot of answers, and there are more investigation and more strategy plans. During the election campaign, the Right was very clear that they wanted to reintroduce state funding for technical colleges. Reports have now been received to show that 10,000 seafarers are missing by 2020. It is one of the professional groups. Fafo has also investigated the need in the future and shows that we're training 5,000, and a lot of them are disappearing into the oil industry. But technical college is in any case a key education. Why hasn't the government just started to investigate the state reintroduction of funding for technical vocational schools instead of sending out another new investigation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1376	When we got into the department, there was another government there before. That government had set up a college committee. In fact, there were many samples that were set down by the previous government – many very close to the election, after the election and close to the government change. Then you might say that we should end the selection that the previous government had put down, but there I think Kristin Halvorsen actually had many good issues that deserved to be discussed. Then we haven't started any investigation of the technical colleges and the state's financial responsibility. It's in our platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1383	Thank you to the Council of State. But it's a challenge here. Once we've investigated it, and that's fine, the government has already concluded in terms of funding, that it's going to be government funding. In the first report, the government then asks for a new study on how to introduce government funding. Why not go straight and say that you have to go for government funding and see how it can be solved? Then I have another question, and it's about the Maritime War School. Does the Council of State have any suggestions on how we can increasingly cooperate with the Defence of Education to recruit more officers to the civil part of the maritime industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1390	Now I became a little uncertain about what the question was. It was heard on the one hand that the representative disagreed that the state funding of the vocational schools should be provided. On the other hand, it seemed that she was very concerned that the government would very quickly do what she disagreed with. It is right that it is in our platform that we should reintroduce state funding for the vocational schools. This is because we believe that the funding base is too uncertain today, and we believe that it is both more tidy and provides better opportunities for the vocational schools to have stable, long-term, state funding. It's in our government platform, and we're going to follow it up. With regard to the question of the Maritime War School, there is a question that I may have to answer in writing, if the representative so wishes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1403	‘The Right Programme states that the Right will strengthen the competence of kindergarten workers through continuing education and training and strengthen recruitment and improve the content of pre-school teacher training. The voters who voted on the Right want to improve the quality of kindergartens by ensuring the pedagogical density, training more pedagogues and strengthening the continuing training of the staff in kindergartens. What improvements have the Council of State made in kindergarten teacher training?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1410	The discussion about quality in kindergarten I've answered in several rounds now, so I just refer to the answers and the numbers that are there. There was a new kindergarten teacher training under the previous government. It's just introduced. A follow-up group has been appointed to see how the implementation has been, and I believe we should let it work. Of course, we need to evaluate, but I think we should not throw it down now and introduce a whole new kindergarten teacher training again when it came in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1417	I thank you for your answer. In the 2013 budget, it was about. 400 million. kr for continuing training. The new government added approx. 200 million. kr, and that's good. But how much of that money went to kindergarten employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1422	There are two different arrangements. There's one scheme for the school. That is the arrangement to which the representative refers. Then there's the quality money in the kindergarten. If you take the $170 million pool. kr, we've never used more, it's never been more. There are other types of arrangements, such as: those I have referred to before, with workplace-based kindergarten teacher training and that kind of thing. Now there's an increase of 60 million. kr from 2013 to 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1427	I thank you for your answer. In the government's listing after 100 days in government, it says that one has: «Strengthened the investment in quality in the kindergarten with SEK 10 million» in addition to the government of Stoltenberg with SEK 40 million. kr. When I went to school, the hardest thing I knew was that someone took credit for the work of others. What does the Council of State think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1434	I think that when a new government comes, you go on with some priorities. It is an active political choice. I have received several criticisms from parties that disagree with the government's priorities, what matters we have chosen to prioritise down, and what matters we have chosen to prioritise. So when we continue to invest and even strengthen it, I think it is quite natural – once we have made an active political choice – that this is our policy in our budget that we are putting forward. Then I'll take that as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1443	This question, from the representative of Torgeir Micasen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Health and Welfare who is directing him. The question will, however, be answered by the Minister of Knowledge on behalf of the Minister of Health and Welfare, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1446	‘All the parties, including the National Council’s own right party, were clearly in the election campaign that teachers in school need support staff to help improve the student’s school life and learning outcomes. School health services are therefore important. At the same time, many claim that the government's proposals for the revenues of municipalities for 2015 are too weak. In addition, a crown is not earmarked for the school health service. How will the Council of State ensure that the school health service is given a real boost in the years to come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1453	The government will strengthen the prevention work aimed at children and young people. School-health cooperation is important in order to prevent and at an early stage capture children and young people in need of health care assistance. Recent research points to a clear link between mental health and learning, and psychological difficulties are an important cause of the decline in secondary education. In 2015, in order to strengthen municipal services for children and young people and those with drug problems and mental health problems, the government will increase the free income of municipalities by 400 million. kr. The funds are not distributed flat, but are allocated according to the distribution keys to meet the needs of the municipalities – the needs of the inhabitants – in the best possible way. We expect municipal politicians to be equally concerned with providing good health services to children and young people as we are to national politicians. I feel confident that the municipalities are conscious of their responsibility. The device we have chosen gives clear signals to the municipalities, while at the same time contributing to minimum bureaucracy. It is the municipalities that know the needs of their citizens best and are almost to distribute the scope and width of the service provision. In mid-June, KOSTRA figures on municipal resource access, priorities and achievement of the target are available. These can give us a good indication of how the municipalities have behaved. We will closely monitor how the money is used. Children and young people are an important field of activity for this government. In order to strengthen the provision of health services to these groups, the government will use the entire instrument. The provision of children and young people will be one of several important issues in the government’s communication to the Stortingen on the primary health service of the future in the forthcoming public health policy report. Children and young people are also an important target group in this Communication. Good growth conditions and early efforts are of great importance to health later in life. The government is in the process of revising the health and school health regulations. This shall clarify the content of the service and the responsibilities of the municipalities. At the same time, the Health Directorate is working on technical guidelines in this area. The guidelines are important and will tell us what we can expect from the service in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1468	I thank you for your answer. The problem with the answer to the Council of State is that it is based on a premise that it is actually a strengthening of the municipal economy next year. The problem is – and there is nothing the Workers’ Party has found – that completely independent calculations, also under government control, show that for the first time in 10 years, tax revenues for municipalities fail. The government leaves an unpaid childcare bill, because parents still choose to have children in kindergarten and do not choose cash support. It might amount to 1 billion. kr next year. When the government does not earmark money for the school health service – this key is not a designation – we can actually face a situation where municipal politicians all over the country have to decide whether to bet on the teachers of the Red Isaacs, or whether to bet on the school health service. I think we should be able to do both, and that's why I repeat the question, how can we ensure a real lift for the school health service next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1477	First of all, of course, it's not the teachers of the Council of State, even though I'm very concerned about the teachers. It is clear that ear marking or not always a dilemma. There is, of course, a municipal scheme where priority needs to be given as a local politician – there is a need to choose something and to focus less on something else. That is the nature of politics. And then, of course, ringing is always a dilemma. If we're going to have a policy where we both want to have some national bets, which the government is putting up here with school health and health care, and at the same time want the municipalities to have room to find local offers, not to do it for bureaucratic purposes, and not least to reduce the total proportion of properly bound, earmarked funds from the state, we have to make these choices. I believe that the government in this way takes care of the need for municipalities to find good local solutions, while there is a clear commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1486	You can't give priority to keeping kindergartens open. It is stated in the law that parents have the right to have their children in kindergarten – that bill must be paid. It says in the law that some people have the right to nursing homes or other things if you need care. What the government is actually putting up with is saying to the municipalities that unfortunately the government has not been able to find money for some unpaid bills, so they have to cover you first – and if there is money left, maybe it can be used for school health services, or teachers, or whatever you want. The problem is that we have a government that, within three weeks last year, managed to raise $7,000 million. kr to tax cut without blinking, but was unable to get one penny for the public hospitals in addition to what the previous government had put in. The economic space exists, but the problem is that we have a government that now has to build the municipal structure – the income for the municipalities, among others. to the school health service — a few months before making a budget for the next year. Then they dare not promise any more, because they have promised so much in another way. How will the Council of State take the fight internally in the government on school health services ahead of tax cuts in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1497	I believe that precisely what the government has just proposed shows that we are giving priority to school health services. This is a promise, and it gives municipalities the opportunity to expand school health care, health care and health care. Of course, municipal politicians are also concerned about it. This was one of the first things I got involved in, in fact, together with young workers' party representatives, in Porsgrund municipal administration to get a better health care care service – it's the municipality's responsibility – into the secondary schools. I believe that both the community structure provides room for investment in welfare, quality, improvement of schools and good care services, and that this effort will clearly help to strengthen the health care and care provision in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1508	‘In the process of the Single European Act, on the right, quality and diversity of the single school, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left proposed that ‘The government in dialogue with the KS should find the necessary steps to raise the status of the teaching profession.’ What concrete action has been taken out of the government's dialogue with the KS, and does the Council of State think that he has succeeded in raising the status of the teaching profession in cooperation with the KS?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1515	We practice and use the Norwegian tripartite cooperation. I think that we have a good relationship between the state, employees' organisations, trade unions and employers is an important value. That doesn't mean you agree on everything, often you'll disagree, but that means we can work together on the things we think are important. We have a good dialogue with the Education Association, we have a good dialogue with other teacher organisations, and we also have a good dialogue with the KS. Then KS is in a special situation – KS is the local authority's employers' organisation and has its positions laid down by the board, where all parties are included, including the Workers' Party. In concrete terms, I would like to point out three things that I believe are important in raising the status of the teaching profession. I believe that continuing training is a crucial part of it. It is clear that young people, when it comes to choosing education, are concerned with pay, but they are also concerned with developing jobs. Having a large, clear, continuing training promise, which allows professional refilling, is part of it. Then we've been very concerned about career paths in school. That's what we're doing. The goal is to have a system where not only teachers – to put it at the head – need to get out of the classroom to get a career, but to have more career steps at school. The last thing I want to pull out is master education for teachers. I think it's just that you're strengthening teacher training further, giving a higher status to the teacher as well. I see that several people also respond to today's news by saying that this is very exciting. Several young people also respond by saying that this makes it even more attractive to apply to the teacher’s study and apply for a career in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1526	In the course of eight questions, the Council of State has now been given the opportunity to say what he has actually done to improve Norwegian school. And he has, quite rightly, shown an increase in continuing education. He says in his list on the Ministry's website that they have started a bet on continuing education. I guess it's a direct error, I guess it was 400-500 million. kr from the country already inside – but there is an increase. In addition to that, I have not heard of a single concrete measure that has been implemented – even here, there is a career path in school, and that is what we are doing. Master's education will come in 2017, i.e. during the next major period. A budget has been submitted, which happened on 8 November. Since then it has been quiet. Maritime education was supposed to be a bet, but nothing has happened, and a standard of personnel in the kindergarten, but it's a big cut. In the case of continuing education for kindergarten teachers, where a previous question was raised as a big promise, nothing happens. None of the post-secondary and continuing education benefits you have submitted shall go to kindergarten teachers. Everything goes to school. There's been 10 million. kr on top of the 40 million. kr to quality development. He takes credit for that, all 50, on the website. What has the Council of State done since 8 November?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1535	I thank you for the question. It's a very good opportunity to repeat points, and also make new ones. We have increased the apprentice grant. We've added 262 million. kr extra to a teacher's vow, including a further training promise – the working party now says they are for it, and it is good and good when the working party comes a thousand after. We have increased the programme of basic skills in the workplace, because working life is one of the central educational arenas. Maybe that's not what the newspapers write about the most, but it's an important bet for us. We've strengthened the university framework by 100 million. kr extra through the result-based redistribution – to mention something. I can also mention a latest news: In the revised budget, we reintroduced the system of PCs for students with read and write difficulties – as the red-greens for some incomprehensible reason took away – to great joy for those with read and write difficulties in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1544	So you're bragging by bringing in 10 million. kr earmarked for PCs, and then you might cut 1 billion. kr on the municipal budget. Does not Røe Isaksen realize that it helps municipalities little to get some hand money for an ear-marked action, when there is a dramatic cut in the big money? Again, he boasts of continuing education – that's fine. All the things he said now were from the budget of November 8. Since then it has been completely, completely silent. Master's training for teachers is quite fine, but it must be practical, not theoretical. So it's going to be in the next magnification period. And then he also dares to bring the apprentice grant. Well, they promised $50,000 per new apprenticeship. The Council of State now admits – after first having black Stortinget completely lost sight of the fog, and probably directly wrong – that only 200 new places had now been added. There have been 2,000 new places each year in the last ten years. So we're going to need 90 million. kr. Does the Minister of Knowledge admit that the Stortinget has been led behind the light, and will he correct the error that lies in the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1555	After all, the apprenticeship grant is the grant awarded to apprentices. It is increased by approx. NOK 3500 for apprenticeship places – it is the grant that has been increased. I can also mention several other measures. The red-green government put the doors wide open for absence in the advanced training. That's what we've been told to reverse. This is coming, but it'll take a few months. We will certainly have debates on this in the future as well. So I would like to repeat that we are not going to start with the completion of master's education, as Guesse now says is quite fine, in 2017. This is going to happen, and it's going to start before that. Then the Workers' Group and the Right-Collection Group have asked more questions about the incentive scheme for new apprenticeships. They're answered. If Stortinget has more questions about it, they can of course send in more questions, and then we will answer them to the best of our ability.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1570	‘More media were able to report last week that the young dancer Amelie was being denied space on the national ballet line at Ruseløkka school in Oslo. She has passed demanding recording tests, but she does not come in because she lives in the neighbouring municipality of Bærum. They won't pay the guest-level guarantee. Amelie's dream is not fulfilled because she has the wrong address. Will the Council of State take the initiative in resolving this type of issue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1577	I think it is very good that the representative also addresses these kinds of questions. I read the case of Amelie, and to me, as I think it's for most people, it's a very bad thing that a young girl who has both talent and high ambitions, can't go to the school she wants. Then go to the political. The government platform says that we want free school choices across state boundaries, but for high school students. In primary schools, the principle is that the municipalities are responsible and the municipalities pay, and the municipalities have no obligation to pay for guest places in other counties. The reason for treating primary school differently is, among other things: that there is a much clearer secondary school principle. Unfortunately, I cannot promise that I will put in place a scheme in which the municipalities will be obliged to pay for guest places in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1586	In their programme, the right writes that parents can choose primary school for their children, even across local borders. Now it's like the Right in Oslo, they rule in Bærum, where they have a pure majority, and they run the Ministry of Knowledge. Amelia and her parents are not allowed to choose. They have even offered to pay for it themselves. Then I wonder, where has it become by the implementation force of the Right? They have power at all levels, and it says in their own program, they really don't need any support in the Storting to do that, but they don't choose to go in and solve this case for this family. Where is the implementing power?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1595	Had everything been in the Right Programme, there was no need to implement it – that would have been fine. I may be wrong, but I have not registered that the Workers' Party wants a different order from the current system. But then you ask the question: Should the municipalities try to solve these problems? It is clear that today’s legislation provides full opportunities for municipalities to address these kinds of challenges. But I think it is reasonable that it is the responsibility of the municipality. I have to say that even if the government were to come back with a case that changed the legislation – I will not rule it out, but it does not appear in the platform, ergo is not one of our most important, priority areas – it would unfortunately be too late for Amelie from Bærum in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1602	One thing is that Right controls the Ministry of Knowledge and the Municipality of Oslo, but they even have a majority in the municipality of Bærum. Bærum municipality is no poor municipality. They have hundreds of millions of dollars in profit in their operations every year. This doesn't cost much money. In addition, the municipality of Bærum, like all other Norwegian municipalities, receives transfers from the state for the students they have in their municipality. In general, this is a little bit of money. I repeat the question: what kind of implementing force does the Right Party have when they are unable to resolve this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1609	This is a debate and a setting where I am as a minister of knowledge, so I have to respond to what is possible in today's legislation, and any plans to change that legislation. But it's not even hard to sympathize with Amelie. It's not hard to see her wish, her talent and her ambition. But it is a debate that the local government in Bærum must take. Of course, it's difficult in such individual cases, because we should all wish that the rules were such that there were no school owners and no municipalities, and that we, as parliamentarians, could intervene and control all the things we wanted. But this is a debate – with today’s legislation – that belongs to the municipality. It's the municipality that has to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1618	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-06-04.ana.ud2470e1631	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
