ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e26	The representative of Pál Farstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e29	On behalf of the big business representative Terje Breivik and myself, I am promoting a proposal for a representative on a comprehensive review of the framework conditions for individual enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e34	The representative of Mr Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e37	On behalf of Terje Breivik and myself, I would like to propose Norwegian accession to the Third Additional Protocol to the Children's Convention – again.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e42	The representative, Mr Ketil Kjeseth, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e45	On behalf of the representative Sveinung Rotevatn and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on better mental health services in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e62	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative Trond Giske.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e69	Norway is a society of great trust between people and strong communities. Across different divisions, we feel very secure between ourselves, and we take responsibility for each other. At the same time, we see Norway becoming a more diverse society with different cultures and different religions. Then we need good meeting places where we get to know each other. The main meeting place for children and young people is the common public school. There kids meet with a variety of backgrounds, ethnicity and religious stand. It's important. On Tuesday, however, we were told that it is now decided that State aid should be granted to a Muslim primary school in Oslo. I understand the logic that when you give support to private Christian schools, you also have to give it to private Muslim schools, and of course, it's not like one school turns up in the Norwegian school system. Nevertheless, the Labour Party is concerned about a development in which more children are sorted in schools by religious status. This occurs even before the Right Party and the Progress Party have implemented the legislative changes notified, which will make it even easier to start private schools with State aid, or – as it says – a right to state aid if certain minimum criteria are met. My question to the Prime Minister is: does she share the concern about a development in which more and more children are sorted by religion in different schools, and will the government use the discretion contained in the law to say no to schools that prevent integration and inclusion in Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e78	The Private School Act provides that schools meeting one of the grounds set out in the Act may be approved. Among the reasons for which there has been broad political agreement in Norway, which is derived from the rights of parents and children in human rights, is permission to attend school on a religious basis. Of course, this includes schools that want to establish themselves on religious grounds other than that they are Christians. Today, we have 71 approved schools that have a Christian basis, so we have now received an application and a decision on a Muslim school. I want to say that I don't think it's hard to see that it's challenging with schools based on a religious basis. I think it's challenging to have government in school, and the biggest government in school is going through the housing market in Norway, where people live, which means that schools look very different in some municipalities. The key then is to ensure that the content of these schools contributes to inclusion, participation, understanding. It is clear that even if schools are allowed on a religious basis, it is possible to make demands on content, to follow the curriculum, and to ensure that a fundamental view of women is in line with human rights, which is in line with the Norwegian view of women – all these requirements can be met. What is undoubtedly going to be problematic is that one religious basis is the basis for excluding authorisation, whereas for others it is not. This would be contrary to human rights and anti-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e85	I thank you for the answer, although there was no answer to the question. The point is that the Right Party and the Progressive Party are planning to liberalise the private school law, replacing today's discretionary system with a right to state aid for all those who meet a certain minimum requirement. Now we know that, in addition to different religious schools, there are plans for schools based on country origin. A Turkish school is planned, and we've seen examples of people sending their children back to their parents' homeland to go to school. It must be deeply worrying if we get a situation where Muslim children go to Muslim schools, Christian children go to Christian schools, and Jewish children go to Jewish schools. We get a sorting of the kids. We get a lot when the kids get together, when the watchman's daughter joins the play son, and people with different religious positions get together at school. That's Norway! My question is: does the Prime Minister see that when someone replaces a law that has a right of discretion with a right to state aid, this development can accelerate, and will she, if this happens, reverse and stop the planned legislative change?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e92	There will be no proposals from today's government to extend access to the establishment of schools on a religious basis. On the contrary, there is the possibility of setting up alternative schools that do not have a religious basis, which is one of the points. If one today wants a school that has a special math pressure or a special sports pressure, one can actually not necessarily get it approved by the law of the day, but if one says that it is a religious school at the same time, it will trigger a greater right to get it based on the principles underlying it. There will be no greater opportunity to establish neither Christian nor Muslim schools of the laws we propose. On the contrary, I think it would be counterproductive to use a religious superstructure to establish schools for other purposes. I am most concerned that we make sure that the Norwegian school is so good that you want to send your children there because you know that it gives the best future for the children. Therefore, the main focus must always be to raise the Norwegian public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e99	We then go to the follow-up questions – first Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e102	If the goal is to have such a good public school that no student wants to go to private schools, then I don't understand the point of having a new private school law that opens up several private schools. Three years ago, the Prime Minister wrote in the book «A Society of Diversity and Proliferation of Power»: ‘If you see in the Netherlands, where more than 70 percent of children go to health schools or Sweden, how much more go to health schools than we do, you will understand that the primary schools are not a threat to community. On the contrary.’ If this attitude of government permeates the work of new private school laws, we will see far more religious private schools in Norway in the future. That's why I ask whether this is an assessment the Prime Minister still has, and whether she really believes that a multiple of the number of students in religious private schools and private schools will not pose any threat to the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e114	You should have listened very poorly to what I have said for many years if you have heard that I have wanted a multiple of private schools. I have used every occasion when the Workers' Party has raised this question, to say that my main project is to raise the Norwegian public school so that no parents feel that they have to choose an alternative in order for their children to have the best possible future. It is the Norwegian school, the Norwegian public school, which should be the best for children, regardless of background. But I think there's a difference in believing that it's better if you don't say anything, than if you promise the public school. The Labour Party believes that the public school is getting better by banning alternatives. We believe that raising public schools will improve: by investing in the teachers, by making sure that we get better education, that is, by actually raising the content of the ordinary school in which the students go, instead of using all their strength in the political debate on the ban line against the alternatives. So I think it's a little special -- I'm very happy with that expression -- that the Workers' Party uses Muslim schools as the entrance to this debate, because, after all, it also allowed the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e121	Ivar Odnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e124	Today's private school law gives you a limited right to start up private schools with government grants. For the Central Party, it is important to protect parental rights, while preserving the school as a central common arena. In this particular case in Oslo, I record that the City Council has failed to approve the application – not the grounds on which the school should be run, but because of the concerns about the impact it will have on the municipality's own schools if the school starts up and has to cease operations later. Then it's the municipality that's left with the responsibility to give these students a school place. If this school is approved for 200 elephants, there will be great challenges for the municipality. The municipality of Oslo may choose to appeal to the Ministry of Knowledge for the decision of the Directorate of Education. To what extent should my Prime Minister's attention be focused on the schooling and integration aspects when approving private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e134	It is possible to make demands on content, and it is possible to make demands on how to work at school. But there's no reason to say that because you have a special religious basis, you can't get permission to start a school. I would assume that the treatment of any complaint will follow about the same lines as the previous time a question of establishing a Muslim school in Norway was being treated. It happened in 2010. Then there was an application from something called the Peace School, which was a Muslim school, where Oslo didn't municipalize the school either at the time. The Education Directorate’s decision was appealed against, and the SV-led Department of Knowledge approved the application. Although the school never came into existence, it was approved on the basis of the law that exists today. That law is based on the human rights obligations we have and parental rights. It is not possible to discriminate. I remember that we have 71 Christian schools, and we have no – we might get one – Muslim schools as of today. I cannot say that Muslim schools by definition cannot be established. Then we're breaking human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e141	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e144	For eight years now, we have lived with a law of free school that is almost fanatical about the fact that there is only one religious basis that can be the basis for starting a school of our own. There is nothing to suggest that one can also have a rather exclusive way of running a school on a Christian basis. Then we hear that from both party representatives and workers' party representatives here in the Chamber, it is arranged that when there are Muslims who are going to run such a school, it becomes quite different. Yes, the Labour Party's representative here said that was not what was Norwegian. I just want to make sure that the Prime Minister does not kneel either for representatives of one of the government parties or from the Workers' Party in this Chamber, and is principled and using qualifying terms to actually assess which schools are to be allowed and not treat Muslim schools differently from Christians.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e151	It's like we can't discriminate on the basis of which religion you're connected to. You can't do that according to the law that exists today. And there will be no proposal to expand or change in relation to a new law when the government makes these proposals to the Stortinget. I think it's very important that we are principled in terms of human rights. Clearly, a decision that will be perceived as discriminating on a religious basis will soon be considered invalid in relation to human rights issues. So I think it's a challenge if many go to religious schools in Norway. That's what I want to say. There are differences between religious schools. And it's absolutely right that there are also Christian schools where I think the children might have been better off going to a more inclusive common school than going there, but I think we should respect parents' choices in that context. It's a fundamental human rights issue. We have French school, we have German school, and we have international schools in Norway that are part of the school offer you can actually go to. It is quite important to say that we should ensure equal treatment regardless of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e160	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e163	Opening up to several private schools as the government wants is a step for segregation. This is seen from the experience in Sweden, where the difference between students has increased, the difference between schools has increased, and where free choice and more private schools have increased segregation. This is confirmed by Anna Ekström, head of the Swedish Education Directorate. When the Prime Minister now also says that several private schools do not affect the already existing school offer, it is empty rhetoric. The municipalities lose money when they establish private schools, and they have to pay anyway. If the government believes that they are actually going to invest the big money and bet the most on making the primary school better, then it must mean that they intend to change the funding system for these schools, so that by opening up more private schools, you make sure that the primary school doesn't lose money and thus perhaps also lose many of the students who should definitely go there, because the parents choose to go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e170	Today, private schools, or fresh schools, receive 85 pst. the operating costs measured in relation to public school spending per student. That means you get less money in private school than a student initially costs the municipality. The calculation shows that the municipal sector is left with more money than the average because some of the students go to private school. Then I know you can't bring it down on each municipality, but I don't think it's a basis to say that this costs the municipality anything. I don't think it should be the most important thing. The most important thing is that we manage to raise the public school, and that's what the government systematically does. Now comes the long-awaited teacher's vow. Now we see that there are several teachers coming to further education. Now we know that we're getting better at math and real science. Now we're getting the new promise after the promise of knowledge, precisely because we're prioritizing it. Then the Norwegian school will be a good school for the students. It'll be a good school the parents are going to choose. That's what we have to fight for, that's to go to the public Norwegian school because that's where you know that the kids get the best future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e175	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e178	I thought the Prime Minister answered the previous main question very well. She was busy with human rights, civil rights and being principled. It is not just Prime Minister Erna Solberg who is. It is also the European Court of Justice, because he is so clear now and states that the Data Storage Directive is illegal. The European Court of Justice states that the Directive involves a very extensive and particularly serious intervention in the fundamental right to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data. It is not every day that the European Court of Justice decides that a directive violates the fundamental rights of citizens. This is a directive in which the state is given the possibility to store all information about each and when individuals use mobile phones, send e-mails or online searches, i.e. an extremely comprehensive and monitoring directive that is now outlawed by the European Court of Justice. It is a fundamental right that a society should not be monitored for no reason. The Prime Minister has been very familiar with the serious complaints against this directive, for they have been aware of it for a long, long time. There was even a divided right, so even in the group meeting on the right, this information came up. My question is: what are the prime minister's thoughts when the European Court of Justice now decides that we are implementing an illegal directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e193	There may be grounds for distinguishing between ‘illegal’ and ‘invalid’. I'm not going to make a big number of that. I find it interesting to read the court decision that has been taken. They have therefore known the Data Storage Directive invalid, because they believe it is too much at the expense of privacy. I also believe that some parts of the directive did so. That was one of the reasons why we were so concerned about both putting on minimum solutions and turning and putting much stronger privacy requirements into the decision the Stortinget made. We therefore assumed the minimum six-month retention period of the Directive followed by what does not result from the Directive, namely a deletion requirement in Norway. Then, much more stringent storage security requirements have been imposed with encryption and closed storage. There are also stricter requirements for the provision of data with legal requirements. Thus, several of the themes addressed in the judgment have been met in what is the national decision in Norway, but not all. That is why we believe that we should continue to look at how the European Union is dealing with this. Until then, it is up to each EU and EEA country to decide on the laws to be adopted in this area in the framework of the EMC and the EEA Agreement. So we're going to go through the judgment to see if there's a need to make changes to the data storage legislation, which we adopted here in April 2011. It is important that the area is regulated. It is important that we have legal regulations in the field of storage/non-storage. This is important given the needs of the police. I think it was a recognition of that in this room when we dealt with it. I remember that opposition that time meant that we needed a national law in this area – not that it was supposed to be a legal space. So we need to look at how we both ensure access to the data that the police need, and how we're going to take the privacy considerations in the years to come, and we're going to work on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e202	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the government will go in and look at the Court of Justice of the European Union. My question, however, is, what happens to the work of the government when it comes to implementing the directive? Is there a full stop in that work? I see that Nikolai Astrup from the Right said to the Evening Post yesterday: ‘It is unnatural for us to include a directive in Norwegian law which violates fundamental rights.’ I'm completely in agreement with Astrup. Can the Stortinget now have a conclusion that the implementation of this Directive has been completely stopped, so that we do not continue to implement an invalid and illegal directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e213	We in the government proposed to Stortinget to postpone the implementation to the summer of this year, given that we were not sufficiently involved in the technical and good solutions. Of course, we will consider what we might need to do about changes – whether we should make changes – and come back and discuss them with the settlement partners, with the Workers' Party and with the Storting as such, based on the agreement that is in place. But now we have to have time to go through what this means, when, in fact, more conditions have been taken into account in the legislation adopted by the Storing, but not all areas. Then I would like to stress that there is a need for instruments that provide effective tools for the police in the fight against serious crime. In fact, I perceived that a mere majority in the Stortinget – quite wide – was necessary. We need to have tools in the fight against terrorism, against killing, and not least against child abuse, such as child abuse. access to IP addresses is one of the important issues. We know that we have not been able to follow up the investigation in Norway in large cases due to a lack of IP addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e220	We go to the follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e223	Some of the main challenge also with the Data Storage Directive is that there has been a huge technological development. When the directive was created, smart phones were not that common. Now it is simply possible to circumvent a part of the directive. Those who want to send messages that are not stored can easily do so through e.g. Skype. This means that the directive, which had the primary purpose of being a rigorous directive to take the most serious and organised criminals, instead affects every single innocent citizen. There has also been some of the main criticism in the judgment. Therefore, I would like to say that there is a significant difference between whether the government now wants to review the judgment – which I understand – and then assess what it will do, or whether it is just saying today that we are stopping the implementation, we are going through the judgment to see what the European Court of Justice or the European Union chooses to do. Norway is free to choose to introduce the Directive or not. Then we can find the sure measures to take the organized criminals or the serious crimes that we want to achieve through the use of data storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e230	I am very pleased that the representative actually stresses the need for national rules. It was a very important part of my 2011 post in this room that the agreement we had, which was the basis for the changes we made, was primarily a national agreement. It was an agreement on how to implement the fight against serious crime in Norway – not the EEA Directive. It is important to say that even if technology moves fast, and even if you don't hit everything, the question is: Should it mean that you're resigning, or should you actually try to use tools to fight the police, for example. pedophile's assault on children? Should we be able to follow up serious criminal cases? Can we follow up and make sure we have a good anti-terrorist work? The availability of communication data is important to achieve this. It is important to remember that although the Court says that the Directive went too far in terms of privacy considerations, it said that all these purposes legitimised that there should be regulation there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e235	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e238	I thank the Prime Minister for the assessments she has shared so far, and the Labour Party supports the evaluations and difficult balances outlined by the Prime Minister here. My question relates to the fact that one knows that there are already a number of telecommunications providers that keep a lot of traffic data for a long time. So far, it has been estimated that the legislation in this field does not take sufficient account of individuals, i.e. ordinary people and their production of these traffic data through their general activity in everyday life. My question is then whether the Prime Minister sees the need to regulate this field more closely – regardless of how the Data Storage Directive is now proceeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e247	That's it. There is a need to regulate those who have data storage. The fact that we, among other things, the imposition of a deletion obligation was important. There were actually a lot of people who didn't delete that type of data before. The processing of data by the police, which was an important part of the right-wing requirements in the negotiations on it, is important, because it also has something to do with how data released to the police after a court hearing is handled there. It is important that we ensure that we have good rules relating to privacy issues. So it may be that there are parts of what we have adopted that will be seen as unnecessary and that will be too expensive and too bureaucratic if we do not meet a directive requirement in those areas. That's why I think it's important that we have time to go through this and set up the questions related to what we're going to do. Then we shall be in dialogue with the Storting also about those things. It won't come into force until we have done this review, precisely because it will be unnecessary, for example. to create legislation that imposes more on storage than we need to do when the directive is not to be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e254	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e257	It has been three years since the Stortinget adopted the Data Storage Directive by a large majority in Stortinget. Because Iceland has said no, it is no longer relevant to impose it in the EEA, and there may now be no directive to introduce at all. The Prime Minister will not say that someone is now stopping the work, but we were told by the Minister of Transport that 1 July 2015 was the date of implementation. When the Prime Minister does not now say that one is putting away the work, can the Prime Minister confirm that we can put a line over the date of 1 July 2015? That date will mean that Storting must have dealt with the matter before this summer. When you're going to have a review, this is unlikely. So my question is, can we put a line over the date of 1 July 2015 for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e266	The judgment was published yesterday. We're going to spend time going through it. I don't want to say that we're setting a line, or that we're stuck on July 1st. We actually have to have time to evaluate the consequences of it. What's until July 1st is the question of what requirements we set now and what system we have for the storage itself. Some of those things I hope are desirable in this big thing, just based on the previous question I had, namely that we actually get clearer rules on deletion, that we have a clearer set of rules about this. It is clear that it may be important for us to make some changes to what requirements and other things we should do, but I remember that in the last time in the processing there was a broad connection that IP addresses should be stored. It was at that time an offer to the Right from all parties about a national law that also meant that we should regulate storage and have a storage obligation on part of this data. If not, I think we are dangerously close to being in a very legal space where crime areas develop.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e271	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e275	I would like to follow up on the last speaker's question, because in the supplementary proposal to the State budget, the government announces that they will assess the directive in the light of the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union and promote the cause of the Storting during the spring session, so that the changes can take effect in July 2014. Does the government stand by this progress plan? And does the government plan to set aside funds for the implementation of the DLD in the revised state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e280	As I just answered the previous question, we're going to evaluate this. We can't say today that that plan holds, or that there will be changes in that plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e285	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e288	I think it has been very disappointing and quite surprising answer the Prime Minister comes along. So it is a dramatic feeling that has come from the Court of Justice. Then it is very special that the Norwegian government should not stop this process in order to facilitate us from scratch to discuss what kind of national legislation we need in Norway, regardless of an EU directive we no longer have to deal with. I want to read what the court says: «The Directive involves a very extensive and particularly serious interference with the fundamental right to respect for privacy and the protection of personal data.» It is not just a crushing judgment on the directive, but a crushing judgment on the Right and the Workers' Party's judgement on privacy issues. That is why my question about the Prime Minister, who has the key to this since half the government is against the directive, will open up the party to turn right on this issue, or whether there is only an adjustment to the already adopted directive that is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e300	It is advisable to read the entire sentence before being morally offended by the decisions of the Labour Party and the Right in this Chamber. In particular, this justification now quoted by the representative points out that DLD does not require access to data regulation by the Court of Justice or an independent administrative body to ensure that the data are not used for purposes other than those strictly necessary, in view of the purpose for which the data were collected. Well, we do that in Norway. We have just taken it seriously that we were strongly critical of the lack of data protection rules around the EU directive. That is why we have established some of the strictest conditions in these areas. Then there are some other areas of the verdict that we haven't changed – that we haven't followed up, and that make us do it. For example, there are groups of so - called confidentiality talks that we have not created special barriers to access. It's an interesting and important theme to look at when we're going to move on. In fact, I do not think that this rallies from Lysbakken are voting if we measure Norwegian implementation with what is in the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e309	Rasmus Hansson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e312	I appreciate the fact that the Prime Minister confirms that she will assess the consequences of the decision of the European Court of Justice in view of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norway, but we also agree with SV that the consequences should have been halted at first. Since the adoption of the Data Storage Directive, we have had some massive examples of what that kind of monitoring and data storage can and will lead to. In a Council of Europe consultation, Edward Snowden just raised the proposal for an international convention to regulate international electronic monitoring and data storage. The question for the Prime Minister is: What is the government doing now to promote international cooperation in order to protect citizens from this kind of monitoring?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e319	I think it's an interesting topic because in that case it must be a convention that takes care of the personal safety of those who have information and data about communication, but also the privacy of those who are victims of crime. There is a balance between privacy in these matters. We also have some massive examples that we haven't been able to investigate gross crime. The largest pedophilia — starting in 2011 — was illuminated and sentenced in several countries. Nearly 300 Norwegian IP addresses were registered. The data was not saved. This was about assault on young children. We couldn't prosecute, we couldn't get that data. I remember that in the Stortinges hearing, the PST chief was clear and clear that in the work against terrorist attacks, in the work for better preparedness, it is precisely this type of information. It's also privacy. It is not just privacy to make sure that your data cannot be researched by the police, it is also privacy to ensure that people have security in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e324	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e327	We now have a government that has an answer to almost all of the challenges. If we have a problem in a public enterprise, the answer is: it has to be bigger, we have to put things together – whether it's police, whether it's college, or whether it's municipal structure. The answer is larger units. One of the areas where I have had many debates with the Right is in terms of municipal structure. If we go back a few years in time, the main reason for merging municipalities was to save money. But then you thought, no, we're losing the choice, we're talking about people and not billions. And then you stopped talking about it. So the main reason was that the services in the small municipalities are so bad, it's so incredibly bad services. Then came the large survey of citizens to the state that showed that people were most satisfied with the services of the small municipalities, especially in care and care, and the main challenges were in the large municipalities – hm! What was the next round? Well, then it was the international company, and then it was child protection. Let me take child protection first: Child protection in small municipalities is so bad – we have to collapse because child protection is so bad there. Then a report from Deloitte shows that there was actually better vocational training and more action in small municipalities than in large ones. Last week IKS was the main reason: cooperation between municipalities is a huge problem, so we have to merge municipalities. But there's also a wonderful little detail, and there's more international companies between large municipalities than between small ones. The answer is in any case community merger. I understand that the answer given to the right hand hand hand side, no matter what the problem, is a community merger. On March 5th, Jan Tore Sanner opened up here in the hall to use coercion. My question to the Prime Minister is: is Jan Tore Sanner on the government's line in that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e342	I am not familiar with the description given by the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum. I believe that there is a little superficial treatment of a question that concerns mental illness should be given a good offer, whether or not children should receive a good offer, whether or not the weakest groups – those who need the most public – should actually meet professional competence. It is quite logical that in many small municipalities it is almost not possible to have the range of skills you need in order to provide a professional and qualitatively good offer to the inhabitants. I think that's important. In addition, there are many important, important tasks that require a certain amount of people. Then it is clear that there are many good intercommunal solutions to follow up, for example. in the protection of children. I have boasted of many of the intercommunal solutions, but over time they are vulnerable to some, for example. will withdraw, say they will not be involved in that cooperation in the future. Our answer is not larger units, but to make clear demands on the quality to be delivered and on the knowledge and competence. In fact, I think it means something that people are competent and trained to provide good services to the weakest. But I believe that the report that the Committee of Experts has now presented shows us that there is a critical mass in order for us to achieve this. Then our answer is simple and straightforward: the solution is not coercive – it is taking a broad political responsibility in Norway to take that debate locally and centrally if it is not time for us now to see that the municipal boundaries should not prevent the weakest people in our society from actually getting good enough services, that they should meet people with good enough professional skills to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e354	I think it's almost amazing that the Prime Minister again chooses to push the child-restraint children in front of him. Looking at the large report that Deloitte has made on child protection in Norway, it concludes with the opposite of what the Prime Minister now says. It concludes that there is the best vocational training, most interventions and the best follow-up in the small municipalities. If there is child protection you are concerned about, you should go into child protection and discuss people, not the structures. Now Erna Solberg starts a huge process and discusses structure, but forgets people. I would like to repeat my question, which the Prime Minister did not answer: is it the principle of volunteering to be based, or does Prime Minister Jan Tore Sanner share the wish that coercion be used if necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e363	The government's starting point is volunteering. So we've said that limiting coerciveness, for example. in a situation where several municipalities have discussed community mergers and there is a broad majority in many, but not necessarily in one, is an opportunity – it must be possible to get a cross-section from the national parliament in order to achieve it. It's a coercion that I think is right. Then you take into account the broad people's will, but you don't let each municipality be the one that in such a context slows the changes in order to get good solutions. But the starting point is not to start with coercion. The starting point is to start with our responsibility for providing good services. We have a responsibility when, for example, we have a responsibility. will move back even more mentally ill clients who have completed treatment but need care, follow-up and support for many years to see to it that they meet a competent crew. If you have 1,000 inhabitants in a municipality, it is difficult to take care of it – if you suddenly get it. One of the reasons why we have created our own system of top financing for heavy users, as we did when I was a municipal minister, is precisely the municipal structure in Norway, because it can be so random when a small municipality gets a heavy disability. It shows that we're patching on a system that doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e372	Geir Pollestad - for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e375	We have come to understand that the government wants fewer municipalities. One of the most interesting questions then is the degree of coercion that might become relevant to getting this done. State Council Sanner has used the UK example — and it has been repeated by the Prime Minister now — that if three out of four municipalities say yes, one may be willing to use coercion against the latter, unwilling. I would like to ask: in a situation where five, six or ten small neighbouring municipalities in a region are turning their thumbs down for the government's merger reform, will a desire to use coercion, or will one respect the local desire of the municipalities in that region? Is the use of coercion that the government sees for itself limited to the example of Sanner?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e382	The government has not spent much time discussing the question of coercion or not coercion. Our starting point is that we are now going to start a debate based on volunteering. That's why we're not talking about what this hall will finally do. It's going to be up to this hall, if things come up at some point. It's a long way ahead. First, we will start the debate on why we need a different administrative level at municipal level today – what content and what services – not how to force reluctant forces to participate in it. We believe that this is a siding that comes to the end of a phase like this, which is up to the Storting to decide. Our focus is the process of discussion. My experience is, both when we look at the KS decision and when we look at the discussion outside, that this discussion is alive, because you want to see other ways of organizing and becoming larger units, just for the weakest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e391	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e394	It is absolutely essential that the services of the citizens govern how we organise our welfare state. This must also be the starting point for the discussion on municipal structure and on the level of administration. At the end of the day it's about the municipalities being efficiently organised, but not least that we have prioritised spending our money on welfare instead of other things, and do not set, for example, tax cuts first. A few months ago, one of the Right’s representatives went out and thought that we could have pilot schemes where the municipalities also assumed responsibility for high school. This means that some municipalities that are large enough – the largest city municipalities – will be able to take responsibility for secondary schools, while other municipalities that do not have a population base for it, simply will not have any influence over the secondary school offer for their inhabitants. Is it, in the view of the Prime Minister, the right way to approach good services for people, or does it only create even greater problems with an efficient and quality good supply structure for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e403	This is an area where we've had several so-called task-differentiated trials. We had this kind of experiment in Båtsfjord. The evaluation of it was very good. The municipality of Båtsfjord got to run high school. This resulted in less setbacks. This also resulted in the presence of more youth leaders. So these are examples of how this worked well. This is a small district municipality in Finnmark, not a large, central municipality. We also had the idea that we would carry out such an experiment in Asker and Bærum. The challenge was that when you have increasing population growth somewhere and have trials where you need to develop new schools, it is quite difficult to get there. I believe that such attempts could also be interesting in order to gain some pedagogical experience based on cooperation in high school and high school, but the government has not taken a decision on whether to approve it, and currently has no programme for us to have differential trials in high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e412	Geir S. Tuskedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e415	It seems that there is a broad understanding that a community reform is useful. It is therefore important to provide good motivation for this in order to achieve a good voluntary scheme. The reform must last for the long term. Now we know that we're going to start distributing tasks, and in the first round we're going to find tasks from the state, the department, the directorate and the statesmen. But then there is an uncertainty about the county council, because it will affect what is a good and right size for the new municipalities. Uncertainty here can lead to a lack of motivation, and lack of motivation results in less volunteering, and thus we can risk reducing the success of the reform. What does the Prime Minister think of the third elected level not being included in the mandate of the Committee of Experts, or so far promised as a decisive factor for successful municipal reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e424	I have seen a very clear signal from several parties on the Stortinget that we should not include the third level of government – or the second, if you count from below and up – in this assessment. The two governmental parties have a clear and clear view of this, but the other parties have wanted to maintain a territorial, regional, administrative level. That's why the government's strategy has been to listen to the signals we've received from the rest of the world, that we should not draw it into the question of municipal structure. If it's like there's completely different signals now, it's going to be interesting to bring them with it. Then we might be able to consult on it. Obviously, there's nothing wrong with the government wanting to discuss how many levels of government we're going to have. But I think we're going to review the municipal structure based on the tasks they have today and the tasks we see in the future. Then we have to see if we need another level of government in retrospect. I just want to say that I hear new signals now, which is a little different from those I've been given before.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e434	Ketil Kjeseth - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e437	The 1964 round of municipal mergers and the introduction of county level must, in a historical perspective, be seen as steps 1 and 2 of a structural change in local democracy in Norway and an adaptation to increasing population, new housing patterns and increased traffic. However, step 3 remains – 50 years after the first step. Nearly half of the municipalities before 1964 are not restructured. COSTRA figures from 2007 show that the municipalities that were merged spent 1.3 billion. kr less on the administration, and they got in Appendix 2.9 billion. kr less in free income, i.e. a difference of 4.2 billion. kr annually – all balancing and compensation peeled away. A coerced minority of municipalities are imposed by us, as accumulation and government, less freedom and increasing economies of scale. It's a debate that the Central Party ignores. The state may not require profit and aggregation after 12 years, and we can put funds in regional commercial gardens in the pot to point to some carrots. When do carrots enter the debate on voluntary aggregation?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e444	The government has already signaled that there will be a broad discussion on this in connection with the municipal proposition, which comes to the Stortinget in May. At that time, the principles and questions raised in the expert committee will be discussed in the Stortinget. The question of any compensation schemes and others will also be highlighted in this context. I can't say anything more about the content, but it comes to Stortinget to a preliminary discussion. Then I want the municipalities to have a framework to deal with when the discussions start. I would like to say again that there is no doubt that the income system today is a barrier to bundling for some smaller municipalities, and they have become stronger in recent years. At the same time, geography in Norway makes it natural for some municipalities to be small. We also have to include ourselves in this discussion that it is not just to believe that one can turn to some point in the income system and starve municipalities to join forces. It's not the government's strategy – and it's not going to be the government's strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e451	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e454	I will continue to follow it up with the Data Storage Directive, because I am disappointed when the Prime Minister hears it as if the directive should be introduced almost in any case, even though we now have a judgment that states that it is contrary to our fundamental human rights. The left has been against the Data Storage Directive all the way, and this was to be implemented in Norwegian law. The Data Storage Directive is very intrusive to individuals and results in massive monitoring of innocent people’s correspondence. It violates our right to privacy. We who have pure flour in our bag won't show our flour all the way. Now the European Court of Justice has passed a judgment that clearly states that this directive is illegal. The judgment concludes that the Directive involves a very extensive and particularly serious interference with the fundamental right to respect for privacy and to the protection of personal data, without this intervention being limited to what is strictly necessary. This can, as the Left sees it, mean nothing but that the Storting, against, among other things. The votes of the Left have adopted a law or adopted a law to implement a directive that infringes fundamental rights. I want to talk a little bit about the content of the verdict. One of the main arguments in this judgment is that the Directive allows the storage of electronic communications by all individuals without the aim of limiting monitoring in order to prevent serious crime, which is the objective of the Directive. How does the Prime Minister see that we should be able to limit monitoring to only those cases where serious crime is suspected?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e465	Let me start by saying that I have not said that the questioner initially said, that that means that the directive will be implemented in any case. I've told you that we're going to spend time going through the question. The directive will not be implemented, but the question is what national legislation we should have in the area of ensuring the storage of important data in the future, balanced against privacy considerations – so that it is established. Then, of course, there's a dilemma in that judgment. It is that the sentence problematizes what it is quite right to problematize, that during the storage phase there is no qualified requirement for what a storer is. It's relatively natural, I want to say that. You're not in the phase you're saving, suspecting individuals. That's not a problem. If you suspect, you may be able to pursue those persons. However, storage is in cases where one in the criminal investigation in retrospect or in subsequent incidents is going to go back and look at data that has been around the moment of the incident or look at traffic such as: in pedophilia matters is about who actually received, took down and looked at these pictures, looked at these videos, maybe also made these videos with gross abuse of children. In fact, one must at some point store this before one has a clear and clear suspicion. It is a dilemma that we in Norway have solved, because we have very strict conditions for how to deal with this, what security mechanisms are around the data being collected, and that there should be court proceedings to obtain information when the police have to have it. So we've put the little bit of suspicion there. It's one of the dilemmas in the law that we have to look at, because it's clear that if you don't have to be able to store, for example. IP addresses in line with this judgment, nor will it, which also left actually opened in the previous round of the treatment, be affected by this law, if one is to go completely literally into it and say that one cannot store anything until one has a suspicion. Today we store for three weeks. It is almost useless for the police in important criminal cases to be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e474	It's quite right, as the Prime Minister says, that there are some of the dilemmas that the judgment takes for granted. Such a data storage directive is designed today, it does not meet this so-called proportionality principle, so much more is being monitored than what is left of it in retrospect. And I agree with the Prime Minister that this is a dilemma. The left therefore believes that we should not introduce the directive, precisely because we are monitoring massively all our citizens, and it is not in relation to what we get back, what comes out on the other side. I have to say that I didn't quite hear about the Prime Minister having any alternative ways of fulfilling the principle of proportionality. If she does, I'd like to hear about it. So I would like to hear what she sees in terms of costs if we are to start to differentiate to get our legislation in line with what the European Court of Justice is now basing on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e481	It is very important to distinguish between the Data Storage Directive and national legislation on this issue. It doesn't happen that we're going to implement a directive that doesn't exist anymore, because it doesn't exist now; it's not valid. The question is what kind of national legislation we are going to have in the future, and whether we are going to keep the legislation we have put in place to implement the directive, but also because we believe that there is a national need to actually address serious and serious crime, or whether this judgment should have implications for what we have put in place. That's what we're going to evaluate. So that's how the dilemma I described is going to exist all the way, and we have to take that. We are not going to be able to investigate serious pedophilia stuff of the kind that we now have international cooperation on, without having stored some data in advance. If you only have to follow those who are suspected, there will be a completely different type of investigation method that will have to be used in that case. That means we don't have much to take out of what's going to be on-line research.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e488	There will be follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e491	First, I just want to follow up on this. Cecilia Malmström, who is responsible for this in the EU today, said yesterday that there is no data storage directive, and we need to consider what will happen instead – probably there will be nothing. I used the morning hours to review the debate from April 4, 2011. At that time, the leading gunman – along with the then Prime Minister – was Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre, who argued that the reason we had to introduce this was that Norway should not be tempted to commit crime when the whole EU implements a directive. Now, the EU does not want to implement that directive, and what is the recurring issue is: when there is no EU directive, when there is no chance that Norway will be tempted to commit crime, as the Prime Minister's colleague said in that case, is it not time to say that we are scrapping all of this, then we start again, and then we create a Norwegian code based on Norwegian assumptions, on Norwegian principles and on Norwegian interpretations of human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e500	I am pleased that the representative of Skei Grande acknowledges that there is a need for a Norwegian national legislation to do this, that we must have a regulatory framework that is appropriate to the data actually stored for various reasons, and that the police are likely to need some data to be stored. At least we've agreed on that before. As I just said, the directive does not exist, so we are not going to implement any directive. If she reads through my post and not just Jonas Gahr Støre's input into this debate, the representative Skei Grande will see that I stressed that this was primarily national legislation, because we need to make sure that we have the means to combat serious crime in Norway. Now I have said that we shall review the judgment that has been given. We know that some of the points that they have, we've met through the rules that we've made in Norway, others we haven't met. Then we have to come back with a foundation. I cannot conclude with what that basis should be, now.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e512	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e515	We all agree that we need national legislation. As the Prime Minister has repeatedly said and pointed out, we have a code today that will help to take quite a lot of serious crime. So it's not like we're living in a vacuum today, either nationally or internationally. The main point must be to target the legislation in such a way that it is possible to take the serious crime – which is desirable – without one monitoring all of them. I've been sitting and thinking a little – I've heard the answers from the Prime Minister, and really I feel that the Prime Minister almost regrets the judgment. Since we made the decision in Stortinget, we have had the story of Snowden, who has revealed – yes, perhaps illegal – surveillance, and we have now seen a European Court of Justice judging the law to be contrary to fundamental rights. Is it right to understand the Prime Minister until she complains that the courts pointed out that this is a violation of fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e522	There is no basis for reaching that conclusion. I believe that the Data Storage Directive, which I also made clear in the debate that took place three years ago, is very comprehensive and that there are problematic aspects to it. That's why we also rely on minimum solutions in implementation. We also see from some of the allegations made in the judgment, i.e. the decisions made in the judgment, that they point out just some of the spaces that are lawful to regulate the collection of data as one of the most worrying. There is a dilemma in the question that we raised earlier in this round, namely when the suspicion should be – before or after saving. But I would say that we do not have satisfactory data storage rules today. I remind you that in 2009 the Swedish Data Protection Authority informed me that there was no need to store other than for commercial reasons for more than three weeks. It is not sufficient to address the key areas needed by the police. I actually perceived the debate in 2011 so that almost all of the Stortinget thought that there should be longer storage time than it is under today's rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e529	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e532	It is very new that the Prime Minister confirms that there is no data storage directive to implement in Norwegian law anymore. That's a big news story we've got today. In connection with the introduction of the Directive and the discussion held in 2011, there was an agreement between the Labour Party and the Right. It was directly linked to the implementation of the Directive. In the absence of a directive to be introduced, there may well not be an agreement between the Labour Party and the Right in the case. That is also very good news. I agree with the Prime Minister that there is a need for a national legislation on storage. My question is: when the work is to be started, will it be done on a free basis, or will one be forced to comply with the agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party, which is thus linked to a directive which does not exist according to the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e541	As in normal agreements between people, the parties to the agreement define whether there is an agreement, or whether the basis of the agreement is gone, not those who opposed the conclusion of such an agreement, and stand on the side and outside. So that's what I think the Right and the Labour Party are going to define, not the Center Party, in this context. So to the question of whether to start on a completely new basis. This is among the things we need to assess when we go through the matter. We must ensure that we have the opportunity to fight crime, we must ensure that we have the opportunity to prevent serious crime, that it can be investigated, and that the privacy of the victim is also safeguarded, within very clear limits, so that there should be no privacy issues related to people else. Unfortunately, if you want to reach some of the most serious crime, you also have to collect information about people who haven't done anything wrong. It is one of the pressures that we in a society sometimes have to take, in my opinion, in order to deal with serious crime that can affect us and our closest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e550	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e553	We have now heard a number of questions about the Data Storage Directive, and I must say that I agree with the representative, Mr Ropstad, that the Prime Minister is basically very pleased with the decision made by the Right and the Workers' Party three years ago, and sees no reason for self-criticism. That is what I must say about a Prime Minister who still underestimates the seriousness of this matter. Therefore it would be useful for the Storting, I think, if we could get a little clearer answers than we have now on what kind of process the Prime Minister sees for himself. Because it is old news that the government was going to review the directive or, as we are now saying, the agreement between the Right and the Labour Party, following the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The big question is whether there is a review that only intends to patch up a signed agreement, or whether it is appropriate to scrape this agreement. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm or confirm whether it is not appropriate to start this process from the beginning, and to scrape the agreement that is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e560	The sentence came yesterday. We take time to review the implications it has for Norwegian legislation and for the decisions taken. We'll come back to Stortinget at some point with a clarification of it. We should also come back to how we were going to implement the next step, including. If we were to implement the storage obligation from 1 July, we would also have to have come to Stortinget with a proposal to grant it. I understand that there is a great deal of impatience, but the impatience you get into the Easter – we're going to spend time going through the premises. It is possible that I sound like I think the agreement we made was good. Yeah, I thought the deal we made was good. I believe that that agreement balanced the interests of privacy and the need to ensure the fight against crime well, but these are individual elements of the agreement and the way in which we implement it, which I believe we should review, inter alia. because it is now a matter of national law, which I now also understand from the question of this hall that everyone agrees that we should have. I think that is an important clarification today.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e567	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e570	In his new year's year, the Prime Minister could tell us that knowledge is the new oil. In these days we are getting new knowledge about how fast the oil economy needs to be built down. Last Monday, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented a report which is a frightening reading, which shows how serious the world is now and how important it is to act quickly. We have also had leakages, including: published in the Evening Post this weekend, about the report that comes from the climate panel now on Sunday. According to these leaks, it states that as much as three quarters of the world’s well-known fossil energy resources and at least half — probably significantly more — of oil and gas resources must remain in the ground or below sea level if we are to avoid hazardous climate change. Scientists have never been so sure that emissions have to sink dramatically fast. In this situation, we have a government in Norway that gives full gas to extract more fossil energy. Yesterday, the Minister of Oil and Energy said to NTB: ‘On the question of whether it is an important part of the job of a Norwegian Minister for Oil and Energy to facilitate the widest possible availability of economically viable resources, the answer is definitely yes.’ If most of the fossil energy resources in the world are to remain below the ground or below the sea, it must be completely unmistakable that one oil country – by chance our – will have the opportunity to extract all its resources. Setting the goal of burning as much Norwegian oil and gas as possible is the same as saying that we do not take the climate panel seriously. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister if it is really the government's policy that the most Norwegian oil should be extracted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e581	I believe that Norwegian oil and gas activities are important for Norway and, in fact, also for the world. In particular, in the medium term, gas activities will be part of what can contribute to smaller emissions in Europe, because they can contribute and fill the capacity needed to stabilise against the days it does not blow enough, or are enough sun, and where other capacity is needed to fill Europe’s energy markets. The biggest challenge we have with it is that the gas option is going to be coal, which gives significantly greater emissions. That's why I think the most important thing is that we fight emissions, not where you produce, but where you consume, and that you have a good policy internationally to achieve it. That's why I think it's still important that we extract our oil and gas resources in Norway, because the option is not that everyone else will not. The alternative is that some others, who have even greater emissions, fill those areas. Then we're concerned that we're going to make binding agreements in the future internationally. In a binding agreement, we must also be able to discuss, for example: How much we're going to produce in the future, but at the moment there's no indication that that's where we're going to come up with international action. That is why we are committed to ensuring that energy consumption in Norway and greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are significantly better balanced in achieving the emission obligations we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e590	I'm essentially interpreting it as a yes. Then I would say that there is an impossible position, for all the prime ministers in the world's oil country will say the same thing, while the climate panel points to, is that even if we were to stop all the combustion of coal, half of the world's oil and gas resources must be underground. That's not going to happen with what the prime minister just said. We also have an oil and energy minister who definitely answers yes to whether he wants to work to extract as much oil as possible, but who has now been in Stortinget several times, last week, and refused to answer whether it is his job and the government's goal to reduce oil sector emissions. The Environment Directorate has just shown that if we are to achieve the climate targets by 2020, the oil industry will have to take about 2 million tonnes of those emissions cuts. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, who has now answered yes to my one question, whether she can answer another question, to which Tord Lien has not wanted to answer: Is it the Prime Minister's goal that the oil and gas sector's emissions should be lower in 2020 than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e595	It is our goal that we should have lower emissions from the oil and gas business. If we can do it by 2020, I am not quite sure today, but over time we will have lower emissions. The main instrument we have for this is the combination between the CO2 tax and the quota price. I have expressed publicly too many times, and I think we should have had a higher quota price in the European quota system. That's really what's nabbed in a lot of environmental policy in Europe, and as long as the quota price is too low, it's a challenge in not getting the technological innovations that we had hoped and wanted to reduce emissions. That's why, from the government's point of view, we're also concerned that over time we should be able to constrain the quotas, i.e. in the system, so that we get a higher price and more power. For the oil and gas business, we have the special feature in Norway that we also have a CO2 tax, not only the quota price, which is effective and has worked, and which was introduced by a civil government in 1990.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e606	There will be follow-up questions – first Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e609	Let me start by asking: if that's what the Prime Minister says, why in the world hasn't the government proposed a faster phasing-out of the allocation in the quota market, or a higher climate target with higher climate requirements than the EU's, when the government first had the opportunity to make representations to the EU? But let me just underline: everyone understands that leaving coal, oil and gas down means losing potential revenues, whether it's Tanzania that has to do it, the United States that has to do it, or Norway that has to do it. Therefore, the question of who should leave fossil resources is a question of distribution, just as who should be given the opportunity to emit CO2 in the future is a question of distribution. If not Norway, which is the country that collects the most fossil resources per capita, should leave some of the oil lying and start the transition to the zero-emissions society, I would ask Solberg: is it so that Erna Solberg believes that the UN Climate Panel is wrong when they say that coal, oil and gas have to lie down, or does she refuse to take our share of the effort?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e617	The government is fully committed to doing our part of the effort to reduce climate change emissions. We have said that we need to strengthen the climate agreement. We're going to work on going from word to action -- finding the concrete measures now that actually do. We are set a step back in terms of it when it became clear that there was no cleaning in Mongstad. It's a long story, as the Storting has discussed a lot, but it does, among other things. it appears more difficult to achieve the 2020 targets than has been foreseen so far. Then this discussion becomes a little bit of a theoretical Norwegian discussion. If this had been an international question where all energy producing countries would have discussed whether to now reduce our extraction to ensure this, it might have had an international impact. But you have to make sure that you have the global impact of the measures you're taking. A unilateral stop or reduction in Norwegian oil and gas production will not affect the climate. It'll just make sure that those that pollute more are going to produce more.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e624	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e627	The report presented by the United Nations on Monday was, well, very serious about the climate situation – we have to bring down emissions internationally, but we also have to do things nationally. Then it is interesting that the Prime Minister responds to the government council that Tord Lien would not respond to last week, whether the petroleum sector's emissions are going to go down by 2020. The Prime Minister here now says that she thinks you can't get them down. Then it is interesting to ask the Prime Minister: when the Environment Directorate says that we must cut by 8 million tonnes by 2020, and that at least 2 million tonnes must be taken from the petroleum sector, how does the Prime Minister intend to do this if not also the petroleum sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e632	What I said was that it's hard, because we haven't actually had enough practical action to bring down these emissions in recent years. That is why it is a very short deadline until 2020. I believe that the emissions from the oil and gas business are going down, but I say what I mean, 2020 is a very early perspective to achieve that, because the investments should almost have been made now if they actually had a great impact in 2020. It's a little bit of a dilemma. Then we're going to work on measures that help us reduce emissions. As I pointed out, the main measure here is allowances and CO2 tax, but in addition we are going to be concerned that we are going to have power from land as one of the important measures for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e640	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e643	Climate issues and energy issues are in many ways two sides of the same coin. Energy in the form of renewable energy and oil and gas will be a key to addressing climate challenges in the future. In very many debates on these issues, representatives from the government parties refer to the notified energy message. My question is: will this communication also address issues related to future Norwegian oil and gas policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e649	We're supposed to look at the whole energy field. There will therefore also be areas of oil and gas policy that will be included in this, but it will not be a complete oil and gas notification. But we are now working on the scope and how much, and it is clear that in an energy policy discussion, the oil and gas business will have to be involved in such a message. We've started working on it, but we haven't concluded everything that's yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e654	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e657	My question is about choice in close relationships. I felt that the Prime Minister on 8 March raised this as a very important policy area, and I fully agree with the Prime Minister. Now it's like we're approaching Easter break, and there's a lot of kids who are anxious about vacation time, because they know that it means more time with parents, it means more filling, and it can also mean more choice. In the 2014 budget, the previous government agreed to set aside funds for the investigation of violence against children. The reason why this is important is that it also makes it easier to target the responses — a good fact-finding basis for the actions to help children in a very vulnerable situation. The new government has chosen to remove these funds, so it will not be able to carry out such a large-scale screening of the election against children. I thought I'd just give the Prime Minister the opportunity to explain why she on the one hand is busy with family elections, but on the other hand, when she has the opportunity to take it, has chosen to give priority to just the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e666	Now, we have prioritised more funds for the most vulnerable children through the efforts we have at what are the sources of much of what creates violence, for example. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We have put more effort into care in our alternative budget, including: by purchasing more treatment sites in all health care establishments to ensure that parents actually receive an offer. Many of these offers are also comprehensive family services. When you did not go into that scope study now, it is among other things. Because more targeted ways of finding good research in this area will be found. You might think that we're going to get back to some of that, which is going to reveal the same thing. A research study would not contribute to less violence in the Passover, but treatment sites where father or mother are on treatment contribute to less violence in the Passover.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e673	I thank you for your answer. I am glad that the Prime Minister will of course also take up some of the things that give Grobotn for power against children. But what I think is a little difficult to get a proper grip on is how it's possible that the new government, when she had 4 billion. kr more than the previous government at its disposal – the largest government budget in the world – but no room for €3.5 million. kr, which is the scope study you want to determine. This is an important fact-finding and fact-finding tool to best target responses. I could imagine that the Prime Minister explains how one can have 4 billion. kr more, but can't afford a range poll.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e678	The government strengthens the knowledge base for violence against women and children by establishing its own research programme on violence in close relations. I assume that once you have made an assessment of this particular program, there is a program that you may have felt has been covered in other areas, or you have wanted to go over the study again. The important thing for us is that we work on the things that contribute where children are and where those who practice violence are. That is why we have also launched measures to increase the ability of the whole aid system to prevent and not least detect abuses, to detect violence, and to ensure that we have routine issues of violence when suspected, in meetings between health services and others when different groups are visited. It is important to make it visible and to ensure that we effectively identify the individual cases that actually need to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e685	It opens for follow-up questions – Stine Renate Håheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e688	When the scope study on rape was presented on 26 February of this year, Minister of Justice Anundsen said: ‘We need more knowledge to prevent violence and abuse.’ To the newspaper the day he followed up by saying: ‘This numerical basis will enable us to take action’. So this is what the government representative says about the scope study on rape. I fully agree – more knowledge is crucial to making the right decisions and actions. This is precisely why it is serious when the government cuts out the scope study on violence against children. It is a measure that costs a small amount of money in the broad context – 3.5 million. kr – which would give us important knowledge, just as the scope study on rape did. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: why do you operate with your own standard of violence against adults and another standard of violence against children?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e705	I believe that there is no reason to claim what was asked in the last sentence. Or, to put it correctly, we operate with a completely different standard of violence against children. Violence against children is much more serious and is much more important to knock on and lead to a much faster response — and should do so — than violence for the rest. It's because children are vulnerable. You have to make sure they have a good growth and follow up closer. Then I have to say, as I just answered the previous question, that we have established our own research programme on violence in close relationships. It also includes ensuring that we have a knowledge of violence directed at children, and we are going to make sure that we go to the source of what is one of the problems, namely, intoxication. It's one of the areas where this government has spent $200 million. kr more, to buy services, which means that we are going to make sure that people who are rushing get help faster, and here family help is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e712	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to go to regular Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e724	There will be a wide range of changes in the set questionnaire, and the President will refer to the electronic questionnaire made available to the representatives. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It is deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Kåre Simensen to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative of Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, must be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 6, from the representative, Mr Vegar Solhjell, to the Minister for Transport, was raised by the representative, Mr Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Question 7, from Kari Henriksen's representative to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 8, from the representative of Ingrid Heggø to the Minister for Industry, is addressed by the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol. Question 10, from the representative Karin Andersen to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, has been withdrawn. Questions 15 and 17 from the representatives of Tove Karoline Knutsen and Anna Ljunggren, respectively, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Defence on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been removed. Question 16, from the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås to the Minister for Oil and Energy, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt to the Minister of Defence, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 20, from the representative of Mr Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister of Knowledge, is addressed by the representative of Mr Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e761	‘In the March 19th Question Time, the Prime Minister warned against continuing to negotiate with ESA on a differentiated employer’s fee for the industries currently proposed, this particularly affects the transport sector in North Norway. The NHO considers that EU guidelines do not require the removal of the transport sector from the scheme; this is supported by external experts. The NHO has sent this information to the Minister of Finance on 31 March. Is the Council of State in agreement with the conclusion of the NHO and will the Council of State take a new round with ESA?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e768	Let me first say that I am happy that it is possible to continue the system of a differentiated employer's fee, and that it also seems that we can extend the scheme geographically to 31 new municipalities. The government has placed great emphasis on running a process that allows ESA to approve the scheme in time for us to continue the scheme without delay from 1 July. It's important for the whole country, and it's especially important for North Norway. So it's unfortunate that we seem to have to take more sectors out of the scheme. It may be unfortunate for many enterprises, not least in the transport sector, where the NHO is concerned. I share the NHO's concern about this. This applies not only to the direct economic consequences but also to the fact that it leads to a much more bureaucratic and resource-intensive system of practice. This means that companies' compliance costs are increasing and that the tax rate has to spend more resources on guidance and control. I also agree with the NHO that there are good arguments that both the transport sector and other sectors that are now in the process of being removed should still be able to obtain a differentiated employer's fee. That is why we have had a wide-ranging dialogue with ESA on this, with both the arguments the NHO refers to and several arguments have been used towards ESA. However, it has not yet been sufficient to convince ESA to take a different view. On the contrary, ESA has made it clear that we could not expect an approval in time to continue the scheme after 1 July if we had notified the energy and transport sectors included in the scheme. I believe that in the situation we are currently in, it is right to give priority to putting it into place as far as possible within the ESA's interpretation of the legislation. If there are no new points of view that sectoral restrictions can be interpreted differently from what ESA has signaled so far, I believe that this is the best thing to do in the short term. At the same time, we are working intensively to assess different measures that can remedy the situation of those affected by the sectoral restrictions, so that this as far as possible can be in place on 1 July. Once we have it in place, we will assess whether there is a basis for notifying changes to the different employer’s fee scheme. We expect, among other things, further clarifications of the sectoral restrictions will be made as other EEA countries notify their regional aid measures. We are also aware that there is a strong pressure from EU Member States against the European Commission to clarify the definitions of, among other things. the transport and energy sectors. We will therefore follow legal developments in the EU/EEA in order to be able to notify changes if developments show that our sectoral limitations are too extensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e781	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the Minister shares the conclusion of the NHO, but I am not satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations and am pleased that further negotiations will take place. The conclusion must be that we have done too bad a job in the negotiations when it becomes clear that we can exclude these sectors. So it's also that this affects the transport industry in particular. What we see is that for Northern Ireland alone, only in public transport, this will amount to 55 million. kr. For Onkøe, it's going to be 40 million. kr. For Torghatten Traffic Company, which is a large traffic company in the north, this will amount to 100 million. kr. For the other freight users too, this will be large amounts of money that it is difficult to take with good compensatory measures. My question is: now it seems that part of this will go out of the system and lead to major disadvantages. Will the Minister and the Government work to find compensatory measures that either take the affected people directly, or to compensate North Norway for the krone in other ways?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e792	Let me first say that I think the representative Juvik of the Workers' Party should be a little cautious about criticising the outcome of the so-called negotiations, all the time the decision on this was taken in the EU before this government joined. So it was covered by the previous red-green government, and then I will at least be allowed to claim that we are in the same boat as we have in the challenges we have had, and have, towards ESA, linked to the new differentiated employer fee. That is why I have been committed to recognising the work done by the previous government in the negotiations. This government has continued this work, precisely because it is so important that the system remains in place, especially in the northern parts of the country. Then we're going to work all the way forward towards the presentation of the revised to provide the best possible compensatory measures for the industries and businesses affected by the changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e801	Now the final decision – and the minister knows that – was made on 23 October, and it is also the case that the previous government protested and worked for this exception all the way. My criticism is that the real negotiations that have taken place since 23 October until today, and I see that both the NHO – and I – conclude that the result has been too bad. It is insofar as the Minister also agrees and says that she will continue to work with the major consequences. Here we're actually talking about 1.1 to 1.5 billion. kr for a whole part of the country if no compensatory measures are found that can limit these major disadvantages. It is remarkable that you try to take credit for having entered 23 new municipalities, which were also located from the red-green ones. But when you haven't succeeded in transport and energy, you owe it to the previous government. The final question is: Does the Minister agree that there is a greater room for action than has been achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e810	For the sake of order, there are not 23 new municipalities, there are 31 new municipalities. So I have always said that much of the negotiation efforts of the previous government have been important, and it has been continued by this. In other words, we have had exactly the same position in saving this system as the red-green government had. That is why we are in a situation where it will be much more constructive if we now use our energy to put in place the best possible compensatory measures to remedy the damage this would have to do to individual businesses and regions as a result of changes. That's what the government is working on. We will present our proposals for solutions for the Storting in the context of the revised budget, and we are of course responsive to recordings. That's why we're in dialogue with business organisations, and that's why we have our biggest representatives from the northern states in turn, just to find the best possible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e839	These questions are put to the vote. Let's move on to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e848	‘The Government has launched the fishing port projects at Napp in Lofoten and Sommarøy in Troms, giving reasons for the creation of a national port strategy. Fishing ports are a crucial part of the infrastructure around the fishing industry, and not part of the other freight ports. The coastal works have already developed a fishing port plan for the whole country. What is the reason why the government is going to create a common port strategy, and what time is it coming?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e855	First of all, I would like to say that I have answered questions about exactly these two ports in the past, both in the storeroom and in written questions. With regard to the port strategy, we believe it is important to stimulate increased transport of goods by sea. This applies both to the fishery product and to much of the other goods in containers or in bulk. Then we think it is important that one looks at the port structure as a whole, and that one does not say that some ports should only be seen as fishing ports, while others should be transport ports. We think it is possible to increase the transport capacity in some places that are now considered only as fishing, while elsewhere it would be natural that fishing is the main activity. But once we've said that we want a round of this, it's natural that we see the whole thing in it. Many governments have said for a long time that a person wants to get more goods on the cold and much more goods on the rail because he wants to reduce traffic on the roads, both for wear and tear and for road safety reasons. One has reached its targets to a small extent. So you've seen that the share of goods at sea is kind of constant. On the railroad it goes down. This means that the tools you have used so far have not worked well enough. Then we think it's natural that we spend some time creating a proper picture of what the situation is like before we go on. For this reason, we have said that for some of those ports, we are holding back the money, simply because we have to know that we are investing properly before we trigger the investment. In this context, we want what we call listening meetings or recording meetings with the industry. Already this week, we're gonna have to have it. Yesterday I was at the KS Company's large port collection on Fornebu. We're talking to the fishing industry, and we're talking to a lot of different actors to get the best possible picture of this. We must also look at the responsibilities of the municipalities. Should we allow the municipalities to participate more actively in the fisheries port policy or not? Should they be more active on the ownership side? How do we better deal with private actors so that when we call out investments, we also have a fishing industry that wants to commit itself to staying in an area, and that doesn't, as we sometimes get the impression, shop around and like that society has invested in infrastructure, doesn't have that much value anyway. Let me also make it clear that this is not part of the way we are going to restructure the fisheries policy. When we look at the ports, it must follow the developments of the fisheries, not the other way around. It is not the infrastructure through the port to define how the fisheries policy should be in the future. That is why it is also important that we coordinate this with the strategy put forward by the Minister for Fisheries. I am very sure that we will both get a better transport solution overall and take care of our fishing industry in a very good way through the investments we are making, both in transport ports and in fishing ports.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e872	Thank you very much for your answer. It's true that it's been specifically asked about these two ports at several times, but I think the Council of State answered in more detail now, especially lately, that fishing has a value in itself. And we would just like to stress that this isn't about building for gorges, it's more in-depth boats and boats of larger length, and they need more space within the Kaifront itself. This is very important. That is why I ask the question again, because I am looking to get a hold of it. What time can we get a clear signal to start finishing Napp and Sommarøy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e879	I'm sorry I didn't mention it – during 2014, that's our goal. That is why we are working hard on this. So we've started all the rounds we've had in the industry and the transport industry as well as in the more clean fishing industry, in order to make good sense and to make the choices as to whether it makes sense to have two different types of ports, or whether it makes sense to connect them more easily. We see that in some major agglomerations around the world fishing ports and industrial ports have become more and more intertwined, because one is talking about ships – fishing boats – which have become much larger. But at the same time, there are also many areas of the country where freight in and out to the local population is not very large, where the places of destination are too small, but where the fishing activity is very large and requires you to have good ports. So we're adding up to trying to finish this work in 2014. It's important that we make good progress on it, because it's important to have it done where you're going to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e888	This seemed to me pretty good, because in the financial debate, the Council of State reiterated this question that one had to fit so that one did not raise money out of the window. That's a correct expression. And you don't have to raise money at sea either. But now I understand that here's a concrete thing going on and I'm going to start with this. I thought that was very good. So a little back to the short sea shipping strategy itself and the big effort to get more goods across by sea. There I have understood that the government will follow up on NTP, which made a big effort in this, by one, among other things. would use 3 billion. on measures to stimulate the use of seas and port cooperation, etc. But until now, there's a lot of work going on. My question is, how will the Council of State now proceed to follow up the NTP within this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e895	This was a theme that I had great pleasure and interest in discussing with many different port actors at the KS Company's port collection yesterday. We want to strengthen NTP beyond what has been adopted. In this, maritime transport has an important part, and that is why we have also moved port responsibility into the Ministry of Transport – to get a more comprehensive approach to it. Getting more goods across the sea means something about wear on roads, which means something about the need for capacity on the roads. And all that's important. With regard to the use of the instrument here, we note that there were planned aid schemes for the restructuring of ports to both owners of goods and shipping companies. We are now discussing this with the industry to see if they agree that it is still the best use of the drug – which may need to be reinforced, and which can be deflected to have the best possible effect. So it's not to go away from the purposes of the NTP, but simply to make sure that the instruments are set up to get the best possible result.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e908	«The inhabitants of Tromsø have waited a long time for a new and safer E8. The previous government decided to use a government plan to start construction according to the existing plans. This was transformed by the Minister of Transport. There is now uncertainty about the planning process, possible start-up time and funding. What will the government do to ensure that the important route to Tromsø is built as quickly as possible and not further delayed, and how long does the Council of State consider it acceptable to use before the construction of a new E8 to Tromsø?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e915	I believe that repairing the E8 to Tromsø is very important. It is the main entryway of the city, and both the Right Party and the Advance Party locally have fought for a long time to get it in place quickly. Unfortunately, the E8 has become more a generational perspective – not with regard to its utility, but with the planning horizon – and I find that very regrettable. It also shows that we do not necessarily plan and project the road in the right way in Norway. It often takes ten years to plan a new path. It's too long. The steps taken by the government, on the other hand, are not to postpone the project. Let me remind you that in the national transport plan from the previous government, there were funds for the E8 at the earliest in 2018. I see that the media locally say that with the progress we can now get, a few start-ups can be made in 2017. So that means that in that case, someone is accelerating the project and not postponing it. We aim to get it in place as soon as possible. But yes, it takes time to plan ahead – we haven't reformed the system so far that you can jump over it. I think it makes sense that we know the basics and all of this before you get started. But the municipality of Tromsø, by the bourgeois majority, has already started work on the municipal plan. I think some decisions have been made over the past few weeks as well. Then there are some objections that need to be addressed. It's important that it is done in a proper way. I know that the municipality of Tromsø there has already entered into dialogue with those who have promoted the objections. They've also asked the County to get involved in the summer, if there's no agreement, to get a mediation. All of this is to get good progress and make decisions, so that you can put the spade in the ground. The decision that the previous government made quite right before it went off – so this is not a government plan that has been lying and paying off for many, many years, it is a decision that took place before the government change – is therefore not a postponement. But what's important about it is that one makes a decision where local politicians are heard more. Government plan is important if many municipalities do not agree on trasé choices, where some municipalities train, and others do not. But when you see that this is a project that affects one municipality, and where a majority has a very different view than a minority – and that was the minority that then put in government nationally and trumped through the state level – we think it's natural that we allow the municipalities to rule again. As long as they have good progress, I have full confidence that this will happen in a good way. So this is both local democracy in practice, and it's actually an acceleration of the project. I think we also end up with a much better project than it was just a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e932	The Minister of Transport says he wants to get the road in place quickly and ensure good progress. That is positive, and everyone fully agrees. So this is the most important route in North Norway to the largest city in North Norway. It has to be safer. But when the Council of State says "rapidly in place", and when he also has a reading in the North Light with the title Faster planning, faster expansion, I think it is quite easy to say that the content is not in the style of rhetoric. The rhetoric is not in line with politics. The situation for this road was that there was a plan that was ready to be implemented – the spade was actually ready to be put in the ground. But what the Minister of Transport and the government has done is scrap the state plan, of which they are really to spend more – just not this way. So there's going to be a postponement on the road, it'll take longer to get it done. I do not understand how the Council of State then believes that the E8 should be put in place quickly by postponing the launch for a further number of years. It's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e941	I have already responded to this in the previous article. The previous government offered to donate money in 2018 at the earliest. It's four years from now. If this spade was already purchased, it is a little strange that the previous government did not care that they would grant money to use it – and even the government had been sitting there for eight years, without using a spade that was there. That means they've had influence for 12 years without wanting to put the spade in the ground. So in four months we've been going into the matter, making the necessary decisions, giving power back to local democracy, so that they're more of a driving force to realize this, unlike the way we experienced it when the government overrun them. That is why this is not a delay, it is an acceleration in that case. I am very confident that the Right Party, the Left Party in the city will keep pace with this. They've got the solution they want. They want the way – they want to find solutions. They have the government with them, rather than as an obvious opponent, as we saw in the previous period. Then this is about that we have to resolve the objections. That is why one has asked for the County to be involved. They've done everything that far. I'm looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e950	What's special now is first of all the Minister of Transport's attempt to rewrite history. Government plan was a tool to get work started. The plans were complete, and the money would come. These were clear statements from the previous government, and you didn't have to wait until 2018 to get the shovel in the ground. It's clear. The option that is ready and ready to be built is what the government is now throwing overboard, so it will figure out the ninth option for new E8 in Ramfjord. On the 14th of March, when the Minister of Transport came to Tromsø to tell me news about the E8, he could not promise that the road was toll-free, could not alert faster start-up and could not realize a trajectory as quickly as the line that had already been planned. What he said was that the government would stop the use of the state plan. Then there is no link between the rhetoric about enforcement and policy which means postponement for this important road. That is why I want to ask the Minister for Transport what his definition of implementing power is, because that is not what the government has shown in this matter, it is delaying.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e961	I'm just repeating this, because it's obviously a little bit of Helga Pedersen's swordsmanship you use here. In the NTP, red-green had planned money at the earliest in 2018. In the 2014 budget, there was not one penny for this project. In addition, road appropriations in the budget signalled that one was not achieving the targets one had entered into the NTP for the four-year period. Then I have little faith that the red-green suddenly would conjure up money for Tromsø. I know that this is the picture an attempt to describe, but all the facts and all the documents after the previous government indicate that it would not have happened. In terms of implementation, I can mention that the E18 in Westfold was accelerated. The red-green wouldn't do that, we did it so it's ready for the summer break. We accelerated the design of the E16 Vang-Bjørgo so that there was one project instead of two. We make sure that E6 can be realized faster through Åkersvika in Hedmark, because one avoids many years in the bureaucracy that the red-greens provided. We make sure that the E6 in Helgeland gets rid of a toll station and reduces the debt by two. There are a lot of projects where we've made decisions, and where the red-greens haven't done it – the last time the freight terminal in Trondheim, which one has spent 30 years. The red-greens didn't plan anything for the next big period. The decision has already been taken by today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e974	This question, from Bård Vegar Solhjell to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e977	«The road system of the Member States implements the KVU for possible new Oslofjord link. Now you look at four concepts. These conflict to a different extent with outdoors and the natural environment, for example. in Jeleiah, and in the west. In written reply to me on 24 February, and in Moss Avis on 17 March, the Council of State is open to put the line in such an area. These areas are very important, and such a trajectory may also create conflict and prolong the process. How will the Council of State protect nature and outdoor life and limit conflict in this matter?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e984	In this case, there have been two approaches to answers. One is that we want to focus on the environment, outdoor life, local conditions and local environment in a very good way in these trasé choices, as we do in all trasé choices. It is important that we listen to what the local population wants – what the local authorities want – when making decisions. What this matter is really about is that the previous government ordered a draft selection inquiry on fjord crossing. I would think that parties who have been in government understand that when you order a draft selection investigation, you ask the trade unions to explore a variety of alternatives. Asking a new government council to go in and reorder one's own government itself is a little special. The red-green government asked that this be one of the things to be investigated, and now they are suddenly strongly opposed to it when they have come into opposition. It will be to short-term professional work if we are to enter and political rule what is to be investigated or not – it is given in the mandate sent out by the previous Minister for Transport. That does not mean that I agree with all the assessments contained in that mandate. That doesn't mean I agree with all the lines. For me today to go something special out against that trail because I personally don't like it, would be pointless. But I have a very clear view of what I think is important to emphasize. The government will discuss this, and it is also important to get a signal from Stortinget. For a party that has been in attendance and ordered this investigation, in opposition, suddenly to go against parts of the investigation they have ordered, I really think it is a bit alarming. Unfortunately, it's more about political games than actually being concerned about the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e993	I thank you for the answer, and I think the first part of the answer was a lot more sympathetic than the second part. Therefore, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State says he will focus on nature and outdoors and listen carefully to the decisions and processes that go locally. I could imagine asking the Council of State if he also admits – or sees – that where you have a good process with local environments, outdoor interests and natural interests, you often get a shorter process than if you choose to outrun the local authorities. Therefore, I just want him to confirm that in the processes that are now going to go, he is going to listen to the local interests regarding nature and the environment. I would also like to ask the question whether such a round of natural and environmental interests can be crucial if one is to choose not to go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1002	Yes, of course we will listen to local interests, but on all the fjord crossing options investigated, people have reactions for bridge or tunnel connections where they are planned to land, and people have reactions to the same thing – a little depending on what they care about. Here it is important that we listen to both sides, and that we listen to what the majority of the related local governments consider. There is also an assessment of the value of paving the way in the various places in terms of living and working areas and their costs. I believe it would be unfortunate if I went in early and said that this and that option should be stopped. Then you start taking political action in professional processes. I want all professional vision. I think you should quickly peel away some things, just as when you decided to build the intercity triangle under the previous government. They had also identified a bus alternative as one of the concepts, but it was quick to choose away.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1009	I thank you again for the answer. It is good that the processes that are going to go have a clear objective of drawing on local considerations. It's right, as the Council of State says, that different trajectory choices affect different areas. That's the way it's going to be. If I can, I'd like to ask two follow-up questions. One thing is if the Minister of Transport is now convinced that we need a new fjord crossing – almost costing what it will – in such a sentence? Is he convinced that by today's date? The second question concerns the objective of the climate agreement of ensuring that the path is sufficiently well established. How will he view an alternative to fjord crossings that do not also have railway links?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1018	As a careful scarf, I'm never positive to anything "cost what it costs". There should always be a balance between what you spend time doing and what you get back. At the same time, I believe that most people will quickly see that the party and the government I represent are many more positive in building a road in Norway than the representative's party is. It will also affect the way we view the utility. I think it's important that we look at the infrastructure in the Oslo region as more than just building a motorway through Oslo. It is important to see how it can relieve Oslo Centre – Sandvika also for that matter – by getting bypasses. Looking at an Oslofjord connection that makes sure that several of those who are not going to Oslo choose to drive around are important. Similarly, in the long term, we should see how to get more of those going northwards to drive north of Oslo instead of through the Oslo Centre. I believe that is important for the environment in this city. I also think it is important from an environmental and climate perspective that cars have a steady speed, that they do not stop up in a region.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1036	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1043	This question, from Ingrid Heggø to the Minister of Industry, will be raised by the representative of Ingvild Kjerkol.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1046	‘The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries has warned that they will not, however, contribute to the reorganization of travel life, as the Stoltenberg Government provided. A letter from the Ministry on 10 March 2014 states that the industry itself must promote the process of establishing a new structure for travel destinations. The actors are shown to search the public tools through county municipalities and municipalities for funding, but there it is also cut in the budget. The reorganization process is now stopping. How can the Council of State defend this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1053	The previous government presented its travel strategy Destination Norway in April 2012. The framework for restructuring travel destination companies in Norway was provided in this strategy. As I also answered in a question in the Question Time on 2 April, it appeared that the then Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade was going to run a process aimed at establishing a new structure for the travel destination companies. It is clear from the Sundvolden Declaration that the current government also wants to ensure more targeted market work by pooling resources in larger travel destination companies. But our government has a different approach to how such concentration should be made. It should not be forced through the ministry; we believe it is the industry itself who must want to drive forward the process of establishing a new structure. It must also be borne in mind that the owners of the new companies take responsibility for the operation of their own business. This also includes financing it. The role of the Ministry vis-à-vis the travel destination companies is to facilitate and stimulate the establishment of a new structure. The Ministry maintains the incentive scheme. Support is provided for the implementation of reorganisation processes. During the previous government, it seemed that someone had come back with the impression that public basic funding could be expected from the travel destination companies. This was neither a basis nor a basis for this. However, I believe that all current private and public actors will still be able to contribute, including county councils and municipalities, if they themselves find the basis for this. That's exactly how it is today. I also communicated this at a meeting with the National Structural Committee when I met them on 24 February this year. At the meeting, I made it clear that the work of pooling resources in larger travel destinations continues with these adjusted frameworks. So it's not like the process of reorganization has stopped. It's moving on. But now the framework is clear. It's also my impression that travel businesses are continuing the process of a great commitment. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries continues its support for the implementation of the changes, including financially. It's set at 30 million. kr for the purpose – 15 mill. kroner last year and SEK 15 million. kr in year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1068	I am pleased that the Council of State so clearly corrects what could be suitable for misunderstanding, among other things. in a debate in News of the Day 18 yesterday afternoon, where it was said that this money was not in the budget. It is good that the Council of State has spent the night and night making sense. It is also such that there has been a great deal of agreement on the goal of such an incentive scheme that I now perceive that the Council of State determines that you are continuing to work with it. Here the government parties have also agreed and said that this is an important bet, and in one of the first interviews I heard with the government council after she joined, she said that she was prepared to continue almost 90 pst. by the bets of its predecessor. So my question to the Council of State is: are you still on the travel strategy that has been worked out by the actors themselves, in liaison with the Department, and do you want to meet the measures outlined in that strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1077	So the interview referred to here was about the questions about the work on trade agreements. In that context, I replied that we were almost 90 pst. agree with the previous government. As far as restructuring is concerned, we support it. We support the work, but it has been understood that it is the Ministry that has drawn the map, that it is the Ministry's model to be implemented, and that those that are not included fall outside. We don't want to have it like that. We want a good dialogue with the industry. The industry itself must want to work out the best solutions. I think it has to be remembered that with regard to the travel destination structure, it is very different in Norway, from very small companies to large ones, and Norway is also quite different. We continue to work on this, and I did not say anything else in the New Year 18 yesterday. What was claimed there was that the basic funding, which some could have promised from the previous government, was in the budget. That money doesn't exist. Funds are available for structural projects. They've been continued by this government, in addition to the 245 million. The Ministry uses through Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1086	I don't think the Council of State and I agree exactly who pointed to which sums in yesterday's interview. We're not going to spend time on that either. What's my experience from experience in the districts is that the actors are working well on this. One wants the Ministry to be clear about following the strategy and that the processes are well under way. My question is: is the change in policy described by the Council of State related to focusing on tax incentives, or will the more active measures be followed through Innovation Norway and the other institutions for which the Council of State of its Department is responsible, in order to follow up all the points defined by this strategy on travel life?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1093	The difference between the previous government and this in terms of the instrumentation is that we want a review of that device. We want the arrangements to work and hit. We are not sure of that at all. This also applies to the travel destination industry. That means we're going to review all the arrangements now, and then we're going to come back and tell us what arrangements we want to use, and how we're going to do it. So the structural work goes on, we're facilitating, we're helping with the restructuring that's going on, but we also recognise that different parts of the country can do things in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1105	‘Telenor has notified that, as part of the restructuring process, they will dismantle their departments in Finnsnes and Bodø. This applies to approx. 50 jobs in Finnsnes and approx. 35 in Bodø. The positions shall not be removed; they shall be outsourced to an external supplier and most likely delivered from countries in Asia. The employees affected call it social dumping. Is the Council of State concerned about the loss of these jobs, and how will the Council of State work to ensure that Telenor still has employees throughout the country?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1112	Like all other companies, Telenor must constantly adapt its activities to ensure that the company is competitive. Work on adapting the level of costs in Norway has been ongoing for many years. In the past, too, this has involved downskilling processes, and for the company this is a necessary measure to maintain competitiveness. Decisions concerning the organisation of the business, including staffing, are business decisions of the board of directors and the administration of a company. This also applies to Telenor. The management and management of the company shall perform the duties and responsibilities assigned to them by the applicable law and which also result from agreed principles of sound ownership. Therefore, I as owner should not go into individual decisions like this. But I expect every company in which the state owns is responsible for carrying out this kind of conversion process. In particular, this means that the dialogue with employees is conducted in the right way. In some contexts, it may also be natural for dialogue to be conducted with the communities concerned, and in some cases it also follows as a legal obligation. I also assume that the company normally follows up those affected, so that the employees' rights are protected in a good way. This government is committed to establishing framework conditions that help to maintain and create new jobs across the country. Good adaptability has been crucial for the development of Norwegian industry. Competence, R & D and stimulation of innovation are therefore key elements of business policy. In the State budget for 2014, we proposed several measures for a more forward-looking industrial policy. We have strengthened, among other things: research in industry, improved the TaxFUNN and BIA scheme and extended cluster programmes with a new programme, the Global Centres of Expertise. I am concerned that we are working closely with the business community to create good framework conditions and instruments that stimulate increased value creation, innovation and good adaptability in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1125	I'll be grateful to the Council of State for the answer. There are many aspects and considerations that I can share. But if we start from that situation in Bodø, there is a place between 40 and 50 Competence Jobs at Telenor Global Shared Services that is at risk of being moved from North Norway – most likely to Asia, possibly to Fornebu. Centralisation of Telenor’s current-scale activity challenges both Telenor’s market position and credibility as a large Norwegian public-owned company. This has also led to reactions, among others. from the county of Nordland, which has demanded that the company also have to look at opportunities to further develop its environment of competence, because it has been used as an argument that there is insufficient competence in Bodø. At the University of Bodø there is one of the major economic education environments in the country, and is it that the Council of State does not share the view that it is important that large Norwegian companies also try to develop competence elsewhere than at Fornebu?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1134	I absolutely share that belief that it is right, but at the same time it is at the bottom of our ownership that we do not go into individual decisions that companies make. Since 1963 the Norwegian State has not been in the company’s administration. We have pointed out board members that we expect to manage our ownership in a professional and good way. This means that individual decisions in e.g.: Telenor is not something I comment on or go in and believe anything about. But in general, we have to keep being competitive and constantly improving, because we know that the ones we compete with, on a general basis are not only cheaper than us, but also getting better. It is a great responsibility, and therefore our commitment to research, education and school is so enormously important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1141	It could have been tempting to challenge the Council of State whether the accounting functions in Bodø are also of strategic interest to the company to have in the country and not to flag out to Asia. But I want to challenge the Council of State on something else, and it's about that centralization: a few years ago, Telenor put down several departments in the districts, among others. in Bardu, Troms. Those who were eloquent there were offered a job in the department at Finnsnes. Now the department of Finnsnes is to be closed, and some of the employees are offered to work in Harstad. It would be natural to assume in 2014 that a company in the telecommunications industry would be able to offer decentralised jobs. Is the Council of State comfortable with the centralisation that is taking place? And can we expect the Council of State to accept that Telenor's objective is to move as much of the workplace as possible to Fornebu in the municipality of Bærum?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1150	The inquirer invites me all the time to go into business decisions that the company has made. I'm not going to do that. Neither did the previous government. I can mention a number of companies that have been conducting restructuring in the last eight years: DNB, Mesta – and almost all of the state companies. We don't go into individual decisions. We point out board members to make the best decisions for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1164	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1171	‘The Health Director pointed out in a letter to the Ministry of Health and Welfare that there are no clear rules on foetal reduction in abortion laws or regulations. However, the Health Director argues that abortion is a debt for foetal reduction based on an opinion from the Ministry of Justice in 2001. The Medical Council and the Health Directorate point out at the same time that selective abortion raises several difficult ethical and medical issues to which Stortinget does not take a position. Will the Council of State ensure a wide review of the law on foetal reduction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1178	The Ministry of Health decided in 2001 that the abortion law would allow for foetal reduction if one of the foetuses had a serious disease or injury. The question of how the abortion law is to be understood at this point was submitted to the Ministry of Justice. The law department then found that it is not reasonable to understand the law so that the woman must choose to interrupt the entire pregnancy so that a healthy foetus is also aborted, where the conditions for abortion are fulfilled for one of the foetuses. The legal position of the foetus and mother must be the same in multiple pregnancy as in pregnancy where there is only one foetus. In 2009, the Health Directorate was asked whether abortion law also opens the way for foetal reduction of healthy foetuses. There may be a desire to reduce the number of foetuses in order to reduce the risk of mortality in the remaining foetuses, or there may be a desire to reduce the number of foetuses for social reasons. If the law allows for foetal reduction of healthy foetuses, there will also be a question of whether the woman is entitled to self-determination if the reduction of the foetus can be carried out before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. The government has inherited this matter from our predecessors. The previous government had this question to deal with for almost three years without it being able to make a decision. The question of interpretation is important because of the ethical challenges of this type of intervention. I am therefore surprised that the previous government did not clarify this during these years. Following a mission from the Ministry of Health, the Directorate of Health has obtained assessments from the professional community on the medical conditions of such interventions. The risk of spontaneous abortion of the remaining foetus due to the intervention is approximately. 15 pst. Both morbidity and mortality among the children born are significantly reduced by a reduction in the number of foetuses from three or more to two. However, no significant medical benefit has been demonstrated by reducing from twin to single pregnancy. The Health Directorate states that foetal reduction is very limited in Norway. Most such interventions are due to serious illness or harm to one foetus. I would like to ask the Law Department to assess whether the abortion law has to be interpreted in such a way that it also allows for foetal reduction of healthy foetuses. When the assessment is available, I will decide on the follow-up. I see that the matter raises ethical questions that there may be good reason why the Storting should be given the opportunity to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1193	I would like to thank you for your answer. The Council of State itself has said that this is a demanding question because of the ethical challenges of such interventions. I found it positive that the new government had taken hold of this and sent a letter to the Health Directorate. What makes me ask is that I see that the question of the Health Directorate is purely medical — what is the risk of spontaneous abortion, what is the risk to mother, what is the risk of multiple pregnancy like that — but the ethical aspects of this, such as the risk of multiple pregnancy, have not been addressed.: If a select one, can it open for selection by gender? What about delays for both children and mother, etc.? Will the Council of State take a stronger step to clarify the ethical consequences of such interventions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1202	When I became aware of this matter and that there were different assessments in the different professional environments in Norway, I thought it was important first to ask the Health Directorate to gather the professional environments to get an overview of the medical conditions related to this issue. It is the medical conditions that in the next round trigger the ethical and legal issues. That's why I was busy getting the medical conditions on the table, and then considering the next step. The legal assessment underlying the Health Directorate’s response is based on the assessment made in 2001, when one had questions about the risk to one of the foetuses’ lives and health. Therefore, I believe that it is now necessary to take the next step, namely to get the legal clearance, by transmitting this issue to the Legal Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1209	The situation today is that we don't have any specific rules for foetal reduction in abortion laws or regulations, because this wasn't a problem when it was promised. I could have wished that the Council of State was more clear that he would make this part of the evaluation to be carried out by the Biotechnology Act, that the Stortinget should have an opportunity to take a thorough debate on the ethical aspects of this after the legal review has been carried out. I understand that one has to figure out the medical and legal aspects, but both the Health Directorate and the Medical Council have said that the ethical issue has to be discussed. Will this come into a matter for Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1216	Once I have clarified the medical conditions, it is also important to have an assessment of what the status is, based on what is today's law. As I said in my original answer, I believe that this is about a number of issues that make it also natural to consider whether this should be raised for the Storting in an appropriate way. I see that there has been a desire from several parties for this issue to be raised in the context of the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act and a big deal about it. It is a proposal that I shall certainly take with me in this work. But because this case is now being sent to a legal clarification, I also have some time to think through what is the best and most natural way to deal with this further, because initially, the Biotechnology topic and a big message about this relate to the biotechnology law itself and not to the abortion law, to which this issue is linked.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1227	I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health the following questions: ‘A few years ago, it was decided that Oslo University Hospital, in cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo, would set up a new metropolitan guard. However, construction has always been postponed for various reasons, and it seems unclear at present when it may be possible to do so. Meanwhile, Oslo’s medical guard’s building in Storgata is increasingly affected by decay, and the operating rooms in Aker Hospital have now been used for a longer period of time. Can the Council of State explain when a new high-level guard will be set up and is it relevant to use Aker for the purpose?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1236	The municipality of Oslo is responsible for the plans for a new city hospital guard. Oslo University Hospitals are tenants in Storgata and are likely also to rent land in the new metropolitan guard. There are no current plans to restore emergency functions at Aker. Given Oslo City Council's decision on the co-location of the city hospital guard with existing emergency functions, it's my assumption that Aker is not the most natural location. The premises of Aker Hospital are being used and are to be used more in the future. A number of measures are being taken to increase capacity in the capital area, and as I have said before: If it makes sense to take more advantage of the capacity of Aker Hospital, I have absolutely no counter-conceptions against it. A few weeks ago, I opened the new emergency room at Ullevål. Regardless of the long-term plans for the development of the metropolitan area, there will be an operational and large emergency reception on Ullevål for a long time to come. I have also noticed that the City Council in Oslo says that the new emergency reception at Ullevål makes it possible to obtain the final impact assessment of a major urban hospital guard located there. It allows for a forced start of construction, if any. At the same time, Oslo Municipality is doing improvements to the premises in Storgata 40, and Oslo University Hospital will move activity back there when these premises are ready. In view of this, it may seem that everything is in place to make good progress in the plans to establish a metropolitan guard in Oslo, and then Ullevål could be a natural place for such a location.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1253	Thank you very much for your answer. There is one point I have to say a little about: the council says that the municipality of Oslo is responsible for a new city hospital guard. The point is that when Oslo University Hospital was created, one of the main projects in that process was a new metropolitan guard, which was to be a collaboration between the new Oslo University Hospital and the Municipality of Oslo. There was a joint investigation of the new high-school guard, who came in 2009 or 2010, and was called the future big-time caretaker in Oslo. It created a close interaction between services from Oslo University Hospital and the Municipality of Oslo in a joint arrangement. On 27 October 2010, the Municipality of Oslo adopted its part of the case, namely that it wanted to go further with a project at Ullevål about a city hospital guard there. There was also a space regulated there for the purpose. Since it has been waiting for a clarification from Oslo University Hospital if they take a step further, before you can get back to it in the City Council of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1262	Some of the issues that the representative of Bohemia is now addressing are, respectively, issues that I expect are often discussed in Oslo City Council, and that I am not going to interfere with, and some questions that were raised under the previous political leadership, which I cannot answer either. My clear signal is that we have recently opened one of the country's finest and largest emergency receptions at Ullevål. It's also a traumatized reception for the entire eastern region. There is no reason to believe that there will not be a large operational emergency reception on Ullevål for a long time to come. Gitt Oslo City Council demands the location of a city hospital guard in connection with an emergency reception, Ullevål will be a current location.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1271	Thank you very much for your response. The problem here is that there has not been any clarification from Oslo University Hospital – it could come at any time after 27 October 2010 – about how they will proceed with the project, so that the Municipality of Oslo could provide a clarification from Oslo University Hospital on how they plan their part. Because of the project called Campus Oslo – where a main option, which you work most with, is to locate everything in the Gaustad area – it may seem as if you have put that plan of a major urban guard in Ullevål’s area a little to the side. Then there is a good signal from the council when he says it is well suited to have it near the new emergency reception at Ullevål. My question is: Will the Council of State give Oslo University Hospital and Health South-East a signal that it should be a project of its own, regardless of Campus Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1282	I have previously replied to the representative, Bøhler, about the plans for the challenges with capacity in the metropolitan area. In June, Health South-East will address a matter of medium-term capacity challenges. The development of the idea of Campus Oslo is a long-term development project, in which the Health Directorate’s planning requirements also mean that a person must also plan realistically and with different other options. I therefore believe that there is a solution that is so far ahead of time, and there are so many questions that need to be answered before one can say that there is a solution, that there is no reason to wait for such clarification before a possible discussion about a metropolitan guard starts. I expect Oslo University Hospital to cooperate with the City Council in Oslo on clarifying these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1295	‘The City Mission of the Church and the Red Cross operate a health centre in Oslo where immigrants are offered free health care without being allowed to stay. In the media, we have been able to hear and read that the Progress Party is very critical of the system, and that we want to deal with this with the government. Can the Council of State ensure that authorised health professionals will continue to be able to provide health care on a voluntary basis to people visiting the health centre?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1302	When a new foreign law was passed in 2008, the majority in Stortinget considered that the law should not be interpreted so sparsely that a ban on the humanitarian space needed by organisations such as the Red Cross and the Church’s Bymission to provide assistance to people without legal residence and who have social and health needs. Another majority considered that it was necessary to clarify where the boundaries should be between legal humanitarian assistance to foreigners with illegal residence and what could be affected as a criminal contribution to illegal residence. The government was then asked to come back with a proposal to that effect and a new participation provision in the Foreign Affairs Act was adopted in 2009 and entered into force in 2012. This provision clarifies that only in exceptional cases can it be considered criminal to provide humanitarian assistance to a foreigner who is illegally resident in the country. Firstly, it is a condition to be penalised for assistance for illegal residence that the provider of assistance intends to help the foreigner avoid the obligation to leave Norway. Secondly, aid must have made it difficult for authorities to send the foreigner out of the country. This means that it is made clear in the law that the assistance provided by humanitarian organisations is open to people with illegal residence, for example: provision of housing, food and health care is considered to be legal humanitarian assistance. As long as health professionals stay within the conditions applicable to not being affected by participation in illegal residence, they may continue to provide health care on a voluntary basis to people seeking health centres for paperless migrants. I can assure you that I am concerned that humanitarian organizations, such as the Red Cross and the Church's Bymition, should still have a certain scope for action to provide health care to those who need it. It also follows from the regulation on the right to health and care services for people without permanent residence in the kingdom that everyone has the right to immediate help and health care that cannot wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1319	I thank the Council of State for a very clear response: this business should be able to continue. Tuberculosis and HIV are two examples of infectious diseases that are very important for diagnosis and treatment. Some of the undocumented are exposed to trafficking in human beings and prostitution, are particularly vulnerable to infection and are also vectors. In this way, this health centre is doing an important task, both by helping to identify symptoms and to refer to them, confirm diagnosis and provide important information to these patients, which can prevent further disease progression and infection. Does the Council of State see that, from a public health point of view, driving this centre for Norway is a useful and important activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1328	I believe that the concept of 'paperless immigrants' is a misleading concept. Persons residing illegally in Norway are not paperless. Either they have not taken a decision to leave or have not contributed to their departure. Therefore, using the term ‘paperless immigrants’ helps to create a notion that these are people who live in Norway and are not responsible for it. I disagree. They themselves are responsible for the situation in which they are and should comply with legal decisions on exit — and contribute to their exit. It is quite right that some of these people need health care, for example. related to the type of disease that would also be a health issue for society otherwise: avoiding infectious diseases. That is why we contribute, inter alia: to provide those organisations with support for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1335	I thank you for your answer. Irrespective of status: these are immigrants without a legal stay. Some are operating around Europe. Others are here for different reasons. In fact, they're here. I've been visiting this health centre, and it's impressive to see that 125 volunteer health workers put their skills at the disposal, and how much volunteering gets out of such an offer. One of the challenges is that today we only have an offer in Oslo, partly in Bergen, but in very few other big cities. It's probably in e.g. Stavanger and Trondheim also need such an offer. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to contribute to the establishment of more such health centres in the major cities of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1346	This is an offer that is of such a nature that, if it is to be available, it must be driven by purely voluntary efforts. It is not a public task to provide health care — in addition to what we are obliged to do in the case of immediate help — to people who are staying illegally in Norway. However, humanitarian organisations are supported by the Health Directorate in their work on infectious diseases, and there are resources that can also be used to reach people who are illegally resident in the country, but there is no current government policy to support this type of centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1351	We go to question 15.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1358	This question, from the representative of Tove Karoline Knutsen, will be answered by the Minister of Justice and Defence on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1361	‘In connection with the treatment of Report by Stortingen. St. 15 [[2011-2012]] Can the Council of States say anything about when such an acquisition is planned to be carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1368	On behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, I have been asked to give the following answers to the question: The oil and energy minister Tord Lien has taken the initiative to conclude negotiations with the owner municipalities behind Åknes Tafjord Standød IKS and Nordnorsk Mountain Surveillance with a view to integrating the monitoring activities into the NVE. In January of this year, the Minister for Oil and Energy sent out a letter to the municipalities where the premises for State acquisition have been outlined, with a deadline for feedback on 31 March. Åknes Tafjord Standød and Nordnorsk Mountain Surveillance have now replied that they want a state acquisition. The NVE is to conclude the negotiations on behalf of the State, and this process has begun.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1377	Thank you. This large-scale notification underlines that there are likely to be several massifs in different parts of the country that are of such a nature that the risk of slippages and races, e.g. down against the sea or water, near the settlement, is imminent. Therefore, I think it is important that the operation and the necessary geotechnical follow-up for monitoring such mountains in the future are taken care of and costed by the state at the NVE, so that small and vulnerable municipalities do not have this responsibility. So it's very positive that you now want to start this process. I know that in Åknes Tafjord there are some unexplained things about costs and investments that have been made. I do not know whether the Council of State, on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, can respond to whether this process can go, regardless of whether it has been negotiated with the costs of Åknes Tafjord?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1384	It is true, as the representative points out, that there has been some disagreement about historical investment costs. The previous government dropped the case after the municipalities wanted them to be compensated for these previous investments. As I have understood the feedback, and it is with a certain reservation, it is now a challenge that is significantly smaller, and the municipalities are concerned that they should also save the operating expenses they have today. They pay approx. 30 pst. the costs of operation. In the case of a State acquisition, those costs will disappear. I have the impression that the negotiations that are now in progress, and the premises that the Minister for Oil and Energy has made, are largely accepted by the municipalities of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1389	It was very positive to hear. These municipalities have now said and very strongly wished that takeover of operations means full funding from the state, except for the local costs that will be incurred for the local emergency response that will result from the situation in which they are located. Can the State Council confirm that the State will complete the financing by acquisition?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1398	This too is subject to a certain reservation, but as I have understood the correspondence and offer from the state, it is such that the state takes over 100 pst. of the operating costs against the 70 pst currently in existence and the municipalities have their own financing share of 30 pst. After all, the starting point for State acquisition is that operations are also financed by the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1403	We go back to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1410	I have the following questions: ‘The VG has told in several articles about women who have been subjected to violence in close relations. Stories show that they haven't experienced being treated in a respectful and good way. This, in that case, is in stark contrast to society's expectations of the police. Is the Council of State aware of this, and what action can the Council of State take to make the Norwegian police even better on such issues that are often difficult to deal with at the outset?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1419	I am very pleased that the representative Ellingen addresses this issue. Violence against women and violence in close relations are very serious crimes that the government has seized from the first day of the government quarter. We are following up the present action plan against violence in close relations, but it is made by the previous government. We are constantly following up on the need to make corrections and updates to that action plan in order to be even more explicit on a concreteisation of some of the measures in place. How the police handle issues of violence in close relationships is crucial to trust, both for those who are subjected to violence and for the general population. Victims of violence shall meet with understanding. They will meet with knowledge and understanding of the police, both human and police. Although the police deal with these kinds of issues in a much better way than just ten years ago, there is still a potential for improvement, and not least through the posted representatives refer to in their question. Counsellor and related instructions for family violence coordinators and teams as well as the Riksadvokat's annual circular and guidelines now provide clear guidance for police work on violence in close relations. Police and prosecution authorities currently have a number of safeguards available, including: restraining visits, patrolling in the area where victims are exposed to violence, alarming by electronic means in the event of a refusal of contact, so-called reverse alarm of violence and barrier of address, also known as Code 6. It is essential that these instruments be used as provided for in order to prevent further violence. In particular, the police must react offensively in the event of a breach of a restraining order. Knowledge and competence are fundamental to all police work. In 2012, an evaluation was carried out of the police’s work on violence in close relations, including: The police’s meeting with – and information to – victims of violence was the topic. The police directorate has now been assigned in 2014 to follow up the recommendations contained in the 2012 report. In addition, police counsellors and action cards in this area shall be regularly updated. We also roll out the risk assessment tool SARA, with which the representative is known from the past, in all the police districts of the country, which will significantly improve the situation, I think. The use of this tool shall contribute to a more comprehensive provision of victims of violence and threats. Through the use of SARA, serious violence shall be detected and prevented more systematically than in the past. In addition, I would like to mention that the police continue to follow up exposed to violence in close relations in the best possible way. We rely on good cooperation with other actors. A project is now being tested to assist victims of violence in the same room at Stovner in Oslo – a kind of adult children’s home modelled from Sweden, which has produced good results in Sweden. Finally, I would like to stress that our most important task, of course, is to prevent violence from taking place. That is why we will give priority to prevention. However, a so-called zero vision must be combined with the proper care of the victim of violence and abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1442	I thank the Council of State for a full and good answer. It's good to hear that the level of ambition is high. It is important to take this seriously. At the same time, the feedback I have received may not be so much about the measures, but the attitude that is sometimes felt by the Norwegian police. If you have taken good action and have good ambitions, it does not help if the representative of the Norwegian police who is exposed to violence in close relations does not have the right understanding. Further to the ambition now outlined by the Council of State: How is it intended to ensure that the Norwegian police actually acquire the necessary knowledge, respect and understanding for the women they meet – for the most part women?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1447	As I mentioned so far in the main response, in 2014, we have implemented a number of actions to be followed up by the Police Directorate in the police districts. I think it is absolutely essential to have a proper leadership focus on this type of crime, and to ensure that those who work on it have the skills required – and to understand what these women and children are actually experiencing. In addition, I think we need to look at some of the models that have been chosen around to improve the victim situation and the follow-up of the victims after such an event, after a review and really right up to a court order, when you often stand alone and feel that it can provide the police, really isn't good enough, because you need so much more. There are several projects around the country. We are now implementing a project to coordinate it and see how we will have a satisfactory follow-up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1454	The focus of the Council of State on the victim's experience of such a situation is, I appreciate it infinitely, because it's probably the most important thing we can do. At the same time, my experience, based on the feedback I get, is that in small communities, which often have a borrower, sometimes become even more difficult, because you usually know both parties. You may find it difficult to decide whether or not it has happened, even though at the end of the day it is a court that has to make that decision. How are you going to handle these things? I fully support the ambition of the government and the state council, but how do you meet it as a local culture/unculture, where everyone knows it? How do you make the systems work in these settings?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1459	I think that's a very good question, especially in a situation when we have a very decentralised structure. In some communities, there is a lenender who comes into conflict with himself and the community as such. I think the most important thing here too is competence, that you should be able to do a real job. I think this is something that will be better when we see the implementation of a police reform, and get better and stronger professional environments, which can be used around the communities to reinforce the employee's job or the local police's job when needed in such matters as this. These are complex and difficult issues. It's awfully demanding for those who are directly involved in this. It is absolutely essential that the police and the other auxiliary equipment handle this well. I believe that we will have easier access to the necessary expertise when we later organise the police in a forward-looking and good way, including in terms of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1473	This question has been raised. Question 17, from the representative Anna Ljunggren to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered to the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1482	‘The increase in the employer’s fee will, as at present, lead to challenges for North-Norwegian business. How will the Council of State work to ensure that the North-Norwegian industry participates in the oil industry as it is gradually moved northwards?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1489	On behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, I have been asked to give the following answers: The framework for the system of differentiated employer charges follows from the EEA Agreement and the guidelines on regional State aid provided by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. The ESA has adopted new guidelines on regional State aid which enter into force on 1 June 2014. Norway must therefore notify and approve a continuation of the differentiated employer’s fee scheme within the framework of the new guidelines. The new guidelines include: bounded against the transport and energy sectors. The Norwegian scheme was notified to ESA in March 2014. In order for the scheme to be approved for the summer, ESA has been clear that the energy sector is not included. Without prejudice to the ESA’s approval, the new scheme will cover all municipalities within its scope. Undertakings with activities that are partly covered and partly excluded from the scheme may, in principle, apply a reduced rate of compensation of employees for activities within the scheme. However, this presupposes the accounting separation of the activities. The government is now reviewing measures that can address the impact of the various sectoral constraints, but this work has not been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1496	Thank you very much for your answer, and thank you for the Minister of Justice stepping in for the Minister of Oil and Energy. Uncertainty is linked to what is contained in sectoral concepts in the various areas, both in the transport and energy sectors. The government’s websites show how the energy sector affected by an increase in the employer’s tax is defined. Both the extraction of crude oil and natural gas and services related to oil and natural gas are activities covered by an increased employer's fee, as I read it. This implies that the supplier industry, for example: cleaning and catering, hit?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1503	I won't dare to go into the details of that field. What I can say is that the government is actively working to get these clarifications with ESA. What has been important now is that within the time limits set by ESA, we have actually managed to maintain the system of differentiated employer charges as such. As the representative is aware, this decision dates from the time of the previous government. Our job now is to try to make the damage to Norwegian business, including in North Norway, as small as possible. As I understand it – it has to be said with the reservations that lie there – there is a very clear distinction between what is directly related to the business and what is supporting functions. In this way, I have understood – with the reservations that are necessary here – that one can withdraw that type of activity, provided that it appears clearly from the accounts that there is no direct part of the core energy activity on the energy side.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1508	There is a broad political consensus that oil activities should have an impact on land, that off-shore activity should provide direct jobs on land where oil and gas are extracted directly outside — i.e. in the same area. I try to ask myself a question, but I understand very well that it is challenging to answer when it is within the portfolio of another state council: how will the government ensure that we get more activity on land when the oil business on the Norwegian base is gradually moving northwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1513	I think the representative Ljunggren will get a significantly better answer to that if I take the question with me to the appropriate professional council, so he can give feedback in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1529	This issue is postponed, as the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1536	I want to make it clear that in my question there is a wrong percentage increase in the Haugesund municipality. The increase of 66 pst. concerns the most popular place in SFO in the municipality, but I still ask the question: ‘Haugesund Municipality has a very poor economy and has been on the Robek list for several years. This goes beyond both statutory and non-statutory services for the city’s citizens. The proposal for a full-time SFO price of NOK 2621 is an increase of 66 pst. Manning standard 1/15 is deleted. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate for poor local economy to go beyond the prices of the SFO, and will he take the initiative in relation to those municipalities that reach prices for the service indebtedly high?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1545	I say thank you for the question. First of all, the municipality of Haugesund is a municipality that I have been happy to visit several times. It's a municipality in growth, and it's a municipality that's a good business community. It also puts pressure on services, but as a starting point I can say that having a good local economy is always important, it is always important to housekeepers in a good and proper way. The question really concerns whether we believe that SFO rates should be regulated nationally, or whether this should be up to the municipality to do, as today. It has also been the policy of the previous eight years that the SFO rate is up to the municipality to set. Primary schools are financed mainly through the free income of municipalities, i.e. framework grants and tax receipts, and not through earmarked funds from the state. It's an important principle. It also applies to SFOs. Within the free resources, municipalities themselves give priority to how much they want to spend in primary schools, including SFOs, if the laws and regulations applicable to schools are complied with. According to § 13-7 fifth paragraph of the Training Act, municipalities are obliged to have an SFO offer – it is not optional, it must have – and they have the opportunity to finance the offer by means of parental payments. Most municipalities have opted for a solution where SFO is financed by a combination of parental and municipal payments. In the case of parental payments, municipalities cannot charge more than the self-cost of the SFO. So one can't make money on the SFO, or use it to sponsor other types of offers. I also believe that this is an important principle, which it is important to maintain, but as long as the municipalities stay within it, I think they themselves should be able to determine the parental payment for the SFO as they think it is appropriate. On this issue, as on many other issues, one has to decide locally – the population has to decide by choice – what is the most important priority to give, and how the different parties locally prioritise things against each other, for example. the contents of the school, or learning, versus SFO and other offers. Then I just want to add that the government has announced in the Sundvolden statement that we want to enter into an agreement with the municipalities that makes it possible to differentiate the payment of the SFO, based on income. It's an opportunity that municipalities already have today, and we're now working on how we're going to be able to follow up this point in the government statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1562	I thank you for your answer. I have a follow-up question. I am particularly concerned about this matter in Haugesund because the city has historically had major challenges related to drug use among young people. Ensuring a good childhood is to ensure safe leisure areas for children, including: through SFO. The feedback we now receive is that the price determines whether a yes to an offer or not. A good childhood lasts for life, and I challenge – and not least encourage – the Council of State to assess a national supervisor on the economy of this related to the parental payment. So my question is, is the Council of State concerned about the future, how just bad community economy can be the excuse of politicians to reverse the parental payment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1569	First of all, I fully agree that a good childhood lasts for life. One of the most important investments we can make as a society is to invest in all children learning what to do, and to get the opportunities they should, based on both a good and qualitatively good kindergarten – that's why we spend more money this year than ever before on the development of competences in kindergartens – and of course through a good school run. The question is a little bit polemic, or it's a rhetorical question, because it's really about what is going to be the task of the state, and what is going to be the task of the municipality. If I had been in the local government at home in Porsgrund, I could have my opinions on what should happen in Porsgrund municipality, but it is the Porsgrund municipality that should be able to decide for itself. So if the question is whether the Council of State believes that maximum rates, or national rates, should be introduced for SFO prices – other than the guidance that is available today – the answer to that is no.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1576	Thank you for that. I thank you for the answer and the clarification. Once again, I would like to have as many children as possible of such a low age receive an offer of safe and good SFO for the lowest possible parental payment. Once again, I want to challenge the Council of State as to what action he might take towards the municipalities that you see have a very low percentage of children in the SFO. Do you want to take initiatives in these cases, where you can see participation all the way down to 20-25 p.m.?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1583	I believe that the SFO is an important offer, and I believe it is important that the parents can be sure that the children have a good place to be. I also think it is very good that many municipalities facilitate and work with the SFO to have a professional, educational content as well. It's very positive. But as far as the priorities of this government are concerned, it's competence development, quality in kindergarten – there we're going to do more than we've done now – teacher's vow and the contents of the school. These are the main priorities until we have delivered on the promises we made before the election campaign. I cannot begin to promise new things until we have delivered what we said was most important, and it was teachers, continuing education, the level of knowledge in school, competence and quality in kindergarten – so it is at the top of my list. Then you might see, once we have delivered on it, whether we are going to come back to lifting the SFO further.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1593	This question, from the representative of Torgair Knag Fylkesnes to the Minister of Knowledge, will be raised by the representative of Siv Elin Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1596	‘The study centres are a useful addition to the Norwegian educational offer. The centres provide people in the districts with access to skills and education that they have previously had to travel far to get. However, the study centres are not fully recognised by the central authorities, as we see in how random the beneficiaries of State aid are. The centre of Nord-Troms does not receive any funds from the State budget, as opposed to e.g. Mid-Throms. How will the Council of State ensure equal treatment and equal access to study centres?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1603	First, thank you for the question. Let me just say that I agree with both the reality description and the problem description, so there are differences in the way we treat these centers. There are a number of study centres around the country that are organised in different ways. The Ministry grants grants to two centres in Troms, as the Stortinget has wanted. Only NOKUT-approved universities and colleges can offer higher education in Norway. The study centres may provide different study facilities to meet regional competence needs, but universities and higher education institutions must be responsible for quality. Universities and higher education thus have as an important part of their social role that they should take care of the decentralised study provision. However, it is up to the institutions themselves to assess how they will organise and set it up. The Ministry of Knowledge channelles funds through the framework allocation to universities and colleges to enable the institutions to fulfil their mission of providing decentralised study services where there is sufficient recruitment basis, such as: the higher education centres of Kongsvinger and Kristiansund. The government is concerned that decentralised study provision should be a dynamic and integrated part of the university and higher education systems, where the individual institution, in cooperation with local actors, such as business, municipalities and county councils, should assess study provision in line with the changing needs of the region. Therefore, it is appropriate to consider whether it is appropriate to build a physical infrastructure in addition to the already existing study sites. The Government intends to provide a major communication on the structure of higher education, where the availability of higher education shall be one of the considerations to be assessed. With regard to the application for support from the Nord-Troms Centre, I regret to point out that it – like all budgetary matters – will be dealt with in a normal way in the context of the 2015 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1622	I must first thank you for your answer. It has been said in previous large-scale reports: ‘It is thus the population’s competence that is the most important factor for growth.’ ‘In order for Norwegian enterprises to assert themselves, the education system must have the capacity to respond to the needs of the labour market.’ In rural areas, shortages of professionals and recruitment challenges are often encountered. In this context, it will be important to focus on the organisation of adult learning. This is particularly where the main efforts of the study centres are — to facilitate training at their home, to lower the threshold for starting such training. In formal education institutions, there is an increasing tendency to look inward, towards what is happening on campus. Does the Minister agree that the study centres agree to fulfil the roles that formal institutions are unable to fulfil to a large extent with today's system?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1638	I agree that the study centres can play an important role – I think it is important that you also have a decentralised offer. At the same time, I believe it is very important to have some institutions that are clearly and clearly professionally responsible for the content of the study centres. I want to add a point that the representative Knag Fylkesnes often mentions, namely that there are also great opportunities in the technology. Among other things, the government has shut down the MOOC committee, which is supposed to investigate how we can use what is called Massive Open Online lectures. Developing this type of study offer can be a very important contribution. It can also be a very important contribution to the fact that you can just take a type of further education or education without the need to follow the course on campus all the time. Decentralisation is important, but there are many other ways to do it — not just through study centres.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1647	There are a number of roles that the study centres perform, which – as I have said before – the formal system is unable to perform. That's exactly why these study centres show up. In the counties and municipalities, it can be seen that the system we have today is not capable of helping to achieve the objective of raising the population's level of competence. What does the Minister think about these challenges — which the study centres actually contribute to meeting? It has been scientifically proven – in many reports – that this is being done in the processes referred to by the Minister here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1652	It is important to say that the way in which the Ministry of Knowledge finances the study centres is by providing general grants to higher education institutions. They then decide – in most cases – how they will organise their structure, at least about them, for example. will have study centres. Because the Stortinget has decided so, direct grants have come to two study centres, the study centre.no and the study centre Finnsnes. But this is not the norm. The manner in which the Ministry of Knowledge supports this – and I believe that it is also a good general rule – is therefore through the basic allocation, i.e. the support to the institutions. Then they've been assigned to provide decentralised study services that are available to the whole region. I know that in several places in Norway there is a need for more competent labour and better regional services. I hope that the study institutions will take care of that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1663	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-04-09.ana.ud2193e1676	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
