ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e38	Honourable co-representatives! Former poaching representative Jørgen Sønstebø died on 29 June 2013 – 91 years old. He represented Telemark Christian People's Party from 1973 to 1985. Jørgen Sønstebø was born on 13 February 1922 in Bø, Telemark. After the war, he entered the police and lumbar seat. He started working as a lieutenant in Hjartdal and worked at several offices until he was hired as a lieutenant in Witteseid in 1971, a position he returned to after the time at Stortinget. The same year that he was elected to Stortinget, he took over the father's yard in Bø. After he retired in 1989, Sønstebø ran his own auction business, which fits well in the image many have of the «old man». With Sønstebø’s background, it was natural that he was a member of the Judicial Committee for all three of his periods at Stortinget. In his final term he was the vice-chairman of the committee. Sønstebø was also a member of the Control Committee and the Powers Committee during the big crowd. As a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, he participated in the international work of the Storting. In addition, he marked himself as a clear opponent of Norwegian membership of the EC. Jørgen Sønstebø made significant local political efforts. He was elected to the municipal board of Gjerpen in 1959 and was a municipal board member in Skien and in Witteseid for a number of periods. In Witteseid he was also a member of the Presidency for many years. After Sønstebø withdrew from Stortinget, he concentrated on local politics and was active municipal politicians until 1995. Sønstebø was active in the Christian People's Party's organizational work as head of state, caster and county board member of Telemark Christian People's Party and as local team leader in several Christian People's Party teams. He also found time for trust in the local Pentecostal unity. He was an honorary member of the Telemark Christian People's Party and actively participated in county annual meetings. When Telemark Christian People's Party celebrated the anniversary a few years ago, he wrote a small party story – a story he himself was an important part of. He received the medal in 1945 and received the King's medal in silver in 1989. We remember Jørgen Sønstebø for his work in the Storting and shine peace upon his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e59	The representative of Audun Lysbakken shall apply for parental leave from 13 January to 7 February. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Hordaland, Gina Knutson Barstad, there is an application for a waiver from the Grand Duchy from 3 February to 7 February, due to maternity leave. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representatives of the Hordaland County, Gina Knutson Barstad and Einar Horvei, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e95	The Minister of Agriculture has been an active Minister of Agriculture and Food this autumn and has delivered in his first months messages that the industry has received with both joy and concern. My wish to lift this debate is among other things. to give the Council of State an opportunity to elaborate on one of the areas where the policy announced by the Government has been met with concern in the industry, namely soil protection. At the same time, this interpellation debate Stortinget gives an arena to express its position around a theme that is not only important to us but also important and crucial for future generations. One of the first messages made by the Minister of Agriculture and Food was a desire for dialogue with industry and predictability for agriculture – a good message for a new Council of State. The last thing about predictability is a well-recognizable message from the cooperation agreement between the government parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left. In addition, the Council of State has clearly stated that it is a goal to increase self-sufficiency and to increase food production. These are ambitious goals that are widely agreed upon in the Storting. A unanimous increase, in the context of the State budget, expressed support for the objectives of increasing self-sufficiency and increasing food production. Once such ambitious objectives have been launched by the Minister of Agriculture and Food and by the Stortinge, they must have implications for policy development. The achievement of the objectives of increased food production and self-sufficiency requires a greater awareness of Norwegian interests. The largest prerequisite for agriculture is naturally enough land use. Here we are at the heart of the debate. Agricultural land in Norway is declining. Under 3 pst. of the total area of Norway is cultivated land. On a global scale, 10.7 pst. of the total area under cultivation. We are significantly lower than countries we can compare with, and are among those countries with the lowest percentage in Europe. In the last ten years, 680,000 deer have lost their full-grown land for other purposes. According to the SSB, a total irreversibly authorised re-disposal of 330,000 decars of cultivated land under the Planning and Building Act and the Land Act in Norway was reported between 1976 and 2012. That's about. as long as both the council and I have lived. These are big numbers, but how much is it really? 330000 dekar corresponds to the total densely populated areas in the municipalities of Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. In 2012, a total of 11,200 decares were redispatched for non-agricultural purposes. In recent months, several major issues related to redisposal have been clarified. Among other things, the government has opened up the re-disposal of 70 dean in Vestby for the construction of new IKEA on Delijordet, the re-disposal of 1,050 dean in the South Trøndelag for the urban development of Trondheim and re-disposal in the municipality of Os. These issues promise a debate on what to do in matters where different societal interests stand up against each other. The debate is not about banning re-disposal. It is sometimes imperative to permit the re-disposal of food soils in order to safeguard other important and vital social interests. However, on the basis of the policy results, we must ask ourselves at regular intervals who should have what access to redispatch to what extent. Unfortunately, food soil is the best soil to build on for both infrastructure and new buildings, as the earth is often already planned. That's why social interests are always set up against each other, and cultivated land is usually the loser. Let me quote from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's letter to the Ministry of the Environment of 25 November 2013 on the Delijord: ‘... has LMD concluded that we now recommend that local business interests are given priority over national interests in the care of food soils’. The ministry even says that the earth we are talking about here is «very valuable cultivated land». We know that the degradation of food soil is an irreversible process. Food soils that have been degraded can rarely be re-used for food production. What we're talking about here are soils consisting of fertile soils and/or soil layers on fields and meadows, which are the basis of food production. We know that the formation of a few centimeters of food soil can take from hundreds to thousands of years. This is knowledge which a government that raises the knowledge tab high should bear in mind, and this knowledge should be relevant in the decision-making process. The land is one of the most important premises for Norwegian agriculture. Norwegian agriculture is among the world's most innovative and innovative and is one of the industries with the highest productivity growth. In addition, there is mutual dependence between agriculture and the food industry. The food industry is one of the largest industries in the country, both in value creation and employment. It employs around 48 000 people, representing about every five employees in industry. It consists of over 2000 enterprises, with a large geographical spread, and is thus an important contributor to employment throughout the country. The value creation is high, and the value of production in the food industry in 2012 was a total of 170 billion. kr. Just this industry depends on a viable Norwegian agriculture. Therefore, an active, good and predictable policy is required to ensure growth and increased value creation. In order to improve, or at least maintain, Norwegian agricultural competitiveness, it is essential that we protect the main operating base for Norwegian food production, namely the soil. Agriculture has had a productivity growth of 6 pst., versus 1.5 pst. in other industries. It's impressive, and it's due to hard work, smart heads and innovation. At the same time, agricultural productivity is damaged when the most profitable areas are decommissioned. Even with rationalisation in agriculture, it is a misguided policy first to reduce the most efficient and profitable parts of agriculture. It is not always just the social interests that stand up against each other in terms of redispatch. There may also be national interests against local interests. The Minister of Agriculture and Food has chosen to rely on local processes and has expressed her desire for a stronger local democracy. We in the Christian People's Party are also warm followers of local democracy and want in decisions that have local interest to strive for good local processes. However, in some cases where the interests of the national community are contrary to local interests, national guidelines and national governance may be crucial. As I and the Christian People's Party see it, this can relate to areas such as the environment, climate, major infrastructure projects, coastal zone problems and the like. We believe it must also apply to soil protection. The re-disposal of food soils is not just about local decisions setting up new industries, infrastructure or urban development against agriculture. It is also about ensuring the operational basis for the food production of the next generation. For me, this is a little about being a visionary politician – and at the same time a real politician – who values the value of the earth. It's not just in Norway's discussion about food soils going. It is also going in the European Union. In recent years, the European Commission has produced reports showing the importance of taking care of our food. In 2004, ten years ago, the Bondevik II government set new disposal targets, which meant that we should not redispatch more than 5,700 jobs. We're approaching the goal, but we need a state council that gets up every single day with this focus, if we're going to achieve our goal. Therefore, my question is: In the matters that have now been raised in the media – Trondheim and Vestby – the Council of State has said that there is no blank authorisation for Norwegian municipalities to build up good food soil. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: What means will the Council of State use to ensure that we reach the target of redispatch set?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e136	Initially, I would like to thank you for the interpellation. The representative Hemdal directs attention to an important matter. I record that the soil protection issue has received considerable attention since I joined the Council of State. It is probably related to the two objections that were not settled by the previous government because of internal disagreement and that therefore had to be settled by this government. Both the Vestby case and the Trondheim case received considerable attention in this year's election campaign. As the Council of State, I have always been clear that the clear signal in these matters was election vows from both the Right and the Advance Party, and this was actually clear from our side before I joined the Council of State post. For me, it has been important to follow the promises of the election campaign. At the same time, I have signaled clearly that my recommendation in these two cases does not in any way imply a blank authorisation for Norwegian municipalities to build up food soils. In our political platform, we say that we want to take care of good food, but we want to balance it with the needs of the big society. We also want to work for the highest possible self-sufficiency of food for emergency reasons. In an international perspective, too, this is an important matter. We are becoming more and more people, and the movement flows continue to go from the towns to cities and towns, both here at home and out. It gives pressure to cultivated land. So we have the same challenges nationally as globally. Despite this, more food has never been produced than in recent years nationally and internationally. The main objective of agricultural policy shall be cost-effective agricultural production. This is something the Industry Committee has also commented on in its position on the budget, Innst. 8 S for 2013–2014: ‘The Committee points out that there is a broad consensus that Norwegian agriculture should focus on increasing food production with a view to increasing self-sufficiency. This has been highlighted by both the Red-Green Government and the Solberg Government.’ It goes on to say: ‘The Committee indicates that a growing population, increased re-disposal and less use will now have to be produced more per use and deer cultivated land.’ All these objectives indicate that good land-use planning is important in order to protect food soils as much as possible. I also think it is important to focus attention on the actual use of agricultural land. We have to ensure the highest possible production on the areas that we have at our disposal. On my recent round trips in the country, I have received clear reports that the high proportion of land rented is a drag in this regard. An increasingly large part of what is produced is produced on tenure land. Not everyone is interested in managing the land that is rented, just as much as they own. It's just that it's normal not to wash the rental car – you don't take care of what you don't own. Digging and drainage are better taken care of on the land you own, and there has also been a tendency for the area to shrink by renting out, as it increases when the owner drives himself. Therefore, I believe that we need to do something about the legislation, for example: as regards the de-allocation provisions of the Soil Law. It is important to take care of as much food as possible and at the same time look at the possibility that the soil that actually exists becomes of better quality, in order to increase production. Although the starting point is a desire to keep the disposal figures low, I believe that a zero vision is completely unrealistic in this area. Because much of the cultivated land is where the expansion pressure is greater, in these areas there will be many other social interests that need land. As I said, this government is committed to balancing soil protection against other societal considerations. Also under the red-green government there was a significant re-disposal of cultivated land — for example: approved by the previous government a re-disposal of 400 demersal food land in Trondheim to commercial land, such as: REMA 1000 could build new central warehouses. This criticises the fact that IKEA can build on 70 decaves, in a strange light. The Planning and Building Act is the most important tool we have today to manage the land and take care of the food soil. First of all, I think it is important to make the municipalities do a good job with their spatial plans. This government has great faith in local democracy and believes it is local you know its challenges best. It is important that municipalities have good professional environments and a high level of competence. They will also be able to produce qualitatively good spatial plans. We know this is a challenge in some municipalities. Norway also needs larger and more robust municipalities for soil protection purposes. A municipal reform is one of the most important measures to improve spatial planning. I am therefore pleased that the government is planning a municipal reform. In large municipalities it will be possible to assess large areas as a whole and there will be several areas available for development. In large municipalities it will also be possible to build large and good trade unions. In my opinion, municipalities are a key factor in caring for cultivated land. I would therefore like to take an initiative towards the KS with a view to a dialogue on how cultivated land can be managed in municipal planning in an even better way than today. This government is busy building the country. This applies to both roads, railways and dwellings. We do not want public regulation to unnecessarily delay or depreciate this. Objections from many different government authorities can be a challenge in this way. That is why I am concerned that national considerations, such as the protection of food soils, are being clarified early in the planning process. I want to contribute to increasing awareness of the importance of getting on the track early. If we do this when it comes to the protection of food soil, I think it can be a good contribution to keeping the re-disposal down. This government wants strong soil protection. At the same time, society has a responsibility to facilitate the construction of dwellings. One of the major issues in recent years has been high housing prices in and around the major cities and agglomerations. This is a consequence of building too few dwellings in relation to demand. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the construction of more dwellings in press areas, but it is also necessary to build closer and higher. Society also needs to develop rail and roads in the future, and the new political majority has ambitious plans in this area. This will also lead to some extent to the need to build up food soils. The community needs to facilitate nutrient land, which enables new jobs to be built up. The most important approach to keeping food soils down to the lowest possible level is to implement a municipal reform that provides larger and more robust municipalities. This way a set of larger areas gets in context. Today, neighbouring municipalities are competing to attract residents and businesses. Larger municipalities can also make it easier to attract spatial planning skills and build good professional environments. For me, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, it is essential to ensure the resource base for food production. So soil protection is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e187	I would like to thank the Council of State for its kind words that this is an important debate. There's a lot of consensus in both big business and government that we're going to increase food production. I would say that one of the two main inputs for increased food production is just what we are now discussing: a rigorous soil protection. The other important input factor is that we have someone who wants to be a farmer today and a farmer tomorrow – and that someone in the next generation will also be a farmer. Having a big and strong focus on soil protection is essential if we are to achieve our ambitious goal of 1 pst. increase over the next 20 years. Neither is anyone in this room who has ever called for a zero vision in terms of redispatch, but it's a total, large, majority in order for us not to redispatch more than 5,700 dean. So we have a lot of work to do just to achieve that re-disposal goal. So a zero vision is not realistic, but we should keep to the re-disposal target. I also agree that the municipalities should have more knowledge of how to plan well, and that one should think much about this as well. But I'm probably a little worried when the Council of State, the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who is responsible for this area, points to the municipal reform, and that a municipal reform is the most important measure of food conservation. I think there are other measures that are even more important than the planned municipal reform in this particular area. But it is good that the Council of State will take the initiative towards the KS in terms of a meeting – that's a good thing. When the Council of State talks about taking advantage of the land and then going to land rent, there is a problem that the Council of State has been concerned about. I am equally concerned about what measures the Council of State will put on the table in order to make better use of the area that is already there today. We know that new measures – and better support schemes, perhaps – need to be taken in order to maximise the use of the land. The main task of the Council of State to take care of food soils is to ensure that the area is drained and that the area is used, but measures on which the Council of State and its department sit are far more important than those on which the Minister of State – and the government, at some point later – will facilitate later through a municipal reform. I challenge here what measures you will take in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e209	The President will remind the representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e212	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Hemdal, that having re-disposal targets is important. It's also important to do everything we can to reach them. I fully agree that it is important to be a visionary politician, but at the same time it is that to get results, one must also focus on real policy. It is clear that this expansion, for example: stand before us now on the rail side – which both I and the representative, Mr Hemdal, fully agree on the need for, and for which the new political majority has invested far more resources and has a much more ambitious objective – will mean that the pressure on the food market is increasing. The fact that we're a population in growth is also something that we have to take on as real politicians. I believe that we should do everything we can to ensure that the new dwellings, that the new industrial area and that the railway and road development within a sound framework are built on land other than food. It has to be a goal that we have to have. When it comes to community reform, I think it's a very important act. I know that from at least where I come from in the West. There are very small municipalities that compete for the same inhabitants and for the same farms, to get them to establish themselves there, and thus drive spatial planning across a completely small area, which may not be the most favourable. We also see it in Romerike – Lillestrøm as the center has a lot of municipalities around it – if one had taken hold, one could have exploited the area in a better way. We know that in some municipalities they lack spatial planning, they lack competence to do this important work. Getting bigger municipalities makes it easier to build a professional environment, and it's easier to get a job that has the right skills. I also fully agree with the representative, Mr Hemdal, that better use of the earth is very important. There we have important work to do in research. Bioscience is a very important player in this field, and so far also Forests and landscapes, but Bioforsk are the people who are developing new cereal varieties, looking at how we can increase production on the areas we have, look at the genetic material and do a great job considering that we have just succeeded so far in increasing production on smaller areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e225	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for travelling such an interpellant. That's what the Storting is for, just to discuss this kind of incredibly important question on a general basis. Any representative of any party in this room knows that if you go into individual cases around the whole country in terms of re-disposal, we will probably not achieve the objectives that the Storting has previously expressed are desirable in terms of soil protection. Some of the things we have to deal with are those who have to deal with them. It is quite obvious to me that in the future we will also face situations where food soils will be redisposed, because there are cross-cutting considerations. We also admit that from the Workers' Party. But that doesn't mean that you should step up your efforts to prevent us from getting a reverse rate in terms of re-disposal than what we've actually seen in recent years. This is one of the most valuable things we're facing. Cultivated and arable land accounts for approximately 3 pst. of the land area in Norway. Nevertheless, we know that over the past 50 years, we have had a reallocation of nearly 1 million. In Norway, there has been a time when it has been chosen to give a very high priority to the question of taking care of food soils. In this way, it is gratifying to see that you have an opportunity to reverse this kind of development in a different direction. In the period 2005–2011 — not entirely randomly chosen — the average redisposal rate was approx. 7 500 covers cultivated land. We know that the numbers in previous periods were significantly higher, almost twice that. There was a reallocation between 11,000 and 14,000 dean between 1999 and 2004. The reason why I take up these figures is that it is possible to reverse this trend, and such a trend as we have seen over the last few years, the Minister of Agriculture should continue to contribute. That's what I see is the core of the interpellation, and what worries me is that the council doesn't respond to what the interpellant asks about. I am pleased that the Council of State, and she will have the honor for it, says that she has not given any blank authorization in this regard. I am also of the opinion that political it has not been stated from this room that you should have some zero vision – so we agree on that – while not giving a blank authorization, it is very important. But I see the role of the Minister of Agriculture in a government as the person who is the driver for continuing the positive developments that the red-green government actually managed to achieve, that the red-green government's red-disposal is getting smaller and smaller years a year. That's the problem, and when you're asked what kind of tool you're going to have to deal with this, I feel that the government doesn't respond to it, in addition to just thinking that it's important to take care of the food soil. I will challenge the Council of State to be more concrete at the end of the debate. What do you think? Is it relevant to think in the paths in which the red-green government thought, that the plan instrument was actually used much more clearly, whether it was a national transport plan, municipal plans, the signals coming from the department, legislation or other types of instruments, to prevent us from getting a different course in redeployment than we have seen in recent years? Then we need more than what we heard from the Council of State instead in my opinion. I doubt whether larger municipalities alone will be the answer to take care of the food soil in Norway. I'm very excited if that will be the case, and I'm afraid that if the government bases its food policy on just one measure of having larger municipalities, the positive developments we've seen in taking care of the food soil over the last few years will turn around. So here we need a state council that's more on the ground and is more concrete than what we've heard so far in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e238	Finally, I would like to say that I think the Council of State answered very well. I think the consciousness around this is pretty high around the community, and it's rising. I think that's the main reason behind the trends that Storberget also pointed to, and I think, as I said, that the Council of State has already given quite good answers. Soil protection is really about taking care of the basis of production we have for food. It's a rather complex issue, but it's a problem with a very good goal, because it's about the perspective of eternity up to the more short-term needs of society. It is clear that it should be the subject of political debate, and most of us feel well as said that the awareness of this is increasing. The government statement is very clear, it says: ‘Maintain good food soils but balance soil protection against the needs of the big society. The government will review the problem of land renting and the agronomy of Norwegian agriculture with a view to improving the return on existing land.’ So you point out, as I said, that this is a more complex issue. I think the soil protection discussion has been easy to get very eaten. As I say, first of all, it's not a very dramatic development in Norway. Since 1992 and until today, it is 3 pst. of the area which has left the production but is due not only to degradation, it is also due to closure. We are immediately faced with two issues. One is that in parts of the country, the activity is just too low to maintain the area you have. People are moving from there, and the area is not being exploited. In other parts of the country, the activity is so high that you actually have to re-disposal land. That is why I believe that the problem of clay soil is extremely important, as the Council of State pointed out. I'd say it's a little populist, that you don't wash the rental car when you deliver it. It says something about the attitude to renting versus owning, and I believe that one of the most important steps in an industry that obviously needs restructuring on the ownership side will be to resolve the constraints on the property market in agriculture. It'll be a very central solution to some of what we're discussing here. It's about maintaining a higher production on the areas that we have and that we're going to have. Other solutions are e.g.: the trench premium, which the Right has fought for a long time. We know that much Norwegian soil is vascularly ill and does not produce optimally. We also know that it's possible to move food if you do it right. – I see that former government council doesn’t fully agree with that, but there are actually reports that have concluded that if you do it thoroughly and correctly and separate the different food layers, it’s possible. You may not be able to maintain full production, but at least there is a solution that should be considered. I note that IKEA has actually taken that initiative itself. It just shows that consciousness out there is pretty big around this, and that many want to contribute. I also think the Council of State has a very good point of community reform. I think getting bigger municipalities, getting more skills out in the municipalities, who know how to tackle this problem, will all be well served. So there too we should keep a high pressure on that very kind of reform. I think the debate is important, and – as I said – it is to weigh the perspective of eternity against the more short-term needs of society. Of course, it should be the subject of an almost continuous debate. But there are many aspects to the discussion – and there are also many roads to Rome. So this probably isn't the last time we're discussing this. But I think the council gave good answers, and the government's consciousness is high around exactly these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e258	I would also like to thank the interpellant for focusing on an important area relating to the development of society and what we want society to look like in the future. Let me first say, as both the Council of State and Gunnar Gundersen have done: this government has clear ambitions for soil protection policy. We have programmed on the political platform very clearly that we want to take care of good food soil. We are concerned about preparedness and will work for the highest possible self-sufficiency. But we also have clear objectives to facilitate cost-effective food production. This is important for this government. In fact, we want to have a farm in Norway, we want arable land in Norway, we want good food land to be able to farm. But then we are also aware, as has been mentioned here, that society is developing. Societies are constantly evolving, and we are dependent on being able to expand areas both for infrastructure, for housing and for commercial purposes. This must be balanced against soil protection. The councils were involved in municipal merger and municipal reform. As the representative of Storberget was in it, it is not the only solution – it is one of many solutions. It's actually important to listen to what some municipalities say. It has been clearly expressed that it is not certain that they would have used the earth they did up in Trondheim, if it had been larger municipalities. It is also interesting to note what the rapporteur, Hillestad, in Re Municipality, says, that when they got the municipal merger between Ramnes and Våler, it was important for soil protection and land management. I remember that Re kommune is a central party-driven municipality. As one of them has been involved, this interpellation has come up, among other things. due to the land distributions made both in Vestby and Trondheim. It is important for this government to take care of the local initiative, which was also attended by the representative Storberget. Now this government is actually more concerned with it than the previous government. The previous government I have the impression was more concerned to show that it was the boss. This government will listen to what the locals say, even though in Trondheim it was the local Workers' Party and SV who said yes to the municipal plan. I think it's important to take into account that we also listen to what these parties say locally, because it's after all a local decision. In connection with the previous municipal plan in Trondheim, the red-green government allowed a reduction of 400 plots of land for nutritional purposes. It was after the local initiative was decided. It's okay to take that into account as well. Interpellant was also concerned with social needs. The interpellant writes in his question: ‘The most severe degradation occurs in the regions that manage the country’s best food soil. There is no reason to believe that this trend will turn around, as it is in these regions that the pressure for expansion is also increasing most.’ We fully agree with that. And she writes: ‘It has repeatedly been established that the food soil needs to be protected from further degradation in order to achieve the objective of increased food production with a view to increasing the level of self-sufficiency.’ In the national transport plan, presented by the red-green government, it is set up to re-disposal approx. 600 jobs per year for road and rail. It is tempting, with a little glimpse in the eye, to ask the interpellant, Line Henriette Hämdal, if she will oppose, and then vote against, that food soil is used to build double tracks on the railway up to Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e286	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Hemdal, for the interpellation. She initially mentioned some measures taken by the Council of State that have created joy in the agricultural industry. It's a little unclear to me what kind of grip it's about. At least it's not about the grips she's taken for soil protection. Access to areas to produce food is a scarcity. This is about a non-renewable resource. It means that we have to be restrictive about building down food soils. We are in the process of achieving the objectives set by the Bondevik II Government, which have been pursued in the communication on agriculture. This has happened because the previous government had a firm and restrictive policy in many areas that affected soil protection. Many objections were raised due to soil protection considerations, and a clear expectation of restrictiveness was communicated to the municipalities. The center party thinks we have to have targets that go beyond this, and we think we have to set a new target, of 3,000 deans. How can one achieve such a goal? The centre party wishes to establish the ground law on soil protection. Soil protection must be given greater priority in levelling processes. Among other things, there is a need to provide the earth with a stronger protection than land. The content of state level guidelines is important, and we need to better control growth. Road and rail development is one instrument — and a state responsibility — to manage growth. It has been produced by some representatives of the Progress Party as if there is virtually no room for redeployment. Even the Center Party sees that something is needed, and with 3,000 deacons there will still be room for double tracks to Halden. It is only when one comes into situations where one has to build up food soil that compensatory measures can be implemented. The movement of food soils may seem attractive, but is therefore only an alternative when it is not possible to preserve the food soil and the area, and it is disputed whether this is a relevant and possible measure. The government writes in the platform that soil protection must be balanced against the needs of the big society. Then it is quite special when you experience that a Swedish furniture sales trumps future food production. It is also interesting to note that IKEA itself takes soil protection more seriously than the government. But it is guaranteed that our descendants will be more occupied with the area to grow their own food on than a department store for the sale of furniture. I would challenge the Minister of Agriculture to give some examples of the needs of the big society that are less important than soil protection, when one knows that IKEA was one of the major society's needs ahead of food production. The Christian People's Party's commitment is commendable, but the party also bears a considerable responsibility for the policy pursued by the government. I hope that, in the future, we can bring together a broad majority of the Stortinget who are willing to put the future generations ahead of short-term profit visions. In relation to the specific matters that have been mentioned, I registered a government council saying that the decision was made with a heavy heart. At the same time, we see that the party traps celebrate the decision with champagne. Then it is important to clarify that the country is governed by decision. The future is created by decisions, not crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e308	I would also first like to thank the representative, Mr Hemdal, for having travelled the interpellation. Now the Left has a representative proposal in Stortinget, which is also about to have a comprehensive soil protection plan, so the Stortinget will have ample opportunity to discuss this issue later on. As others have pointed out, cultivated land constitutes only 3 pst. of the area of Norway. Since the Second World War it has been redispatched approx. 1.2 million decaves cultivated and cultivated land in Norway. It's a paradox that much of the cultivated land that is redisposed, also is of the best food soil we have, simply because it was where the best soil was, you hit it down, and that's where the best soil is, most also live. You have a development where you get a fortification and where you get a city growth and a change pressure. It just reinforces the need to have a comprehensive soil protection plan and a clear national policy in this area. For this, irreversible changes are. When the food ground is built down, it's gone. Moving food soils is not a solution. At best, it's an emergency. There's a lot of problems making it work. The discussion on the movement of food soils must also not be an argument for being able to build where there is food soil today. It's just something that can to some extent fix what goes in the wrong direction. Everyone agrees that it is necessary to have a good infrastructure, and that we need to build up railways and roads. There are dilemmas in terms of soil protection. At the same time, however, when it comes to making individual decisions on soil protection, soil protection and national policies should not be just the sum of individual matters. Important national interests can lead to the need to build up food land, but, as pointed out, IKEA is not an important national interest. In these matters, there must be a clear policy where national interests, with soil protection, must take precedence. So soil protection – precisely because it is degradation in key areas where there is often a pressure on growth – is closely linked to the urban and urban policies that the state and the government must pursue. Because it is clear that in this context, that there is a densification in the established towns and cities, it is important to have an extension of the railway, and if good policies are to be pursued in this area, it is not necessary to re-disposal food land in order to achieve more housing. If you are clear on that policy, that you are able to keep tight processes in urban development, and when it comes to the establishment and development of dense areas around the routes you have and around the public transport you have, you are very much avoiding the degradation of food soils. So I just want to stress again that there is a need for a national soil protection plan. A municipal reform is important in many areas, it can also lead to better overall planning locally, but that a municipal reform itself should be a solution to food conservation, I believe, is an illusion. This does not relieve us of the national responsibility and policy that we need to pursue in order to avoid the unnecessary dismantling of agricultural and agricultural land in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e321	I want to join those who thank the interpellant and the Christian People's Party for taking a very important initiative. The Environment Party of the Greens clearly shares the concern about the development of soil degradation in Norway. Norway, as all speakers have pointed out in this debate, has exceptionally small areas of the resource which is the very basis for human civilization. For decades after decades, all parties and all governments have been committed to limiting the degradation of food soils in Norway. There is no political disagreement about the need to do so. That's why it's a big paradox, as it's very important to include in this debate, that while it's been the goal, and while parties that have been heavily concerned with soil protection in their political program, have been in power with government, the degradation of food soils has still remained virtually unstoppable. It's very good that there's been a slowdown in the decline in recent years, but the decline continues. And anyone can figure out what will be the consequences of this development continuing for many more decades. Agricultural efficiency is good, discussions about municipal reform are good, but none of these things can or must be used to camouflage the fact that the degradation of a more or less irreplaceable resource continues. And it's irresponsible and irresponsible of a nation like Norway in the long run to rely on ever-increasing imports of the food we need, and to rely on a development that makes agriculture an increasingly stressed and increasingly difficult industry to live off for those who are in that industry. So everyone understands that other societal considerations are important factors, but we cannot stop taking into account the basic fact that the decline continues with the kind of political goals that are now. Interestingly, both the Council of State and almost all the representatives who have spoken in this debate distance themselves from a zero vision and state that a zero vision for land losses is unrealistic. The Greens disagree. We believe that the only possible thing is a zero vision for soil loss. There is no alternative but to make it clear and obligatory that the loss of food in Norway will stop. And then it's interesting, as many have already pointed out, that IKEA, which, of course, should not be allowed to build in West Town, at least has a much more offensive and much more concrete soil protection policy than both this government and the previous governments have had, because they have undertaken to replace at least food production – I'm not quite aware of whether it involves the area – that their expansion involves. As many have pointed out, it is not easy to replace food soil, but it is also not impossible to replace food soil. The instruments we now have to look at are a zero vision, a real zero vision for the loss of food soil in Norway, combined with charges related to the cases of actual expansion, which are earmarked for new food soils and claims for replacement land. So many have pointed out the great possibilities that lie in more sensible land disposal for all the other reasons that cause us to lose food soil. A zero vision for the loss of food soil is not unrealistic. What is unrealistic is a continuation of a policy that notoriously leads to the loss of more and more food soils.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e334	It's an important theme the interpellant addresses. Societal development is constantly changing, said the representative Ørsal Johansen of the Progress Party. When you think about it, 100 years ago Norway was actually a poor country. The settlement was completely different, and we lived to produce our own food. But then we got the industrialization, we moved into the cities, and we got the pressure that's in view of it. It has given us the challenge that we are actually facing today. Why is it so dangerous to take this adorable earth? Well, if we're going to have a food production that matches this level of self-sufficiency, all of which are agreed on, we need this adorable soil, and we need to make good use of it, as the interpellant said. But then we also have to look at what kind of arable land we have. It's also different, so it's important to include it in the debate. It is particularly demanding to have sufficiently cultivated land suitable for the production of cereals, potatoes and vegetables. The recurring collision is that more housing is needed in cities, while we need to produce more food for an increasing population. It is therefore a very important task for us as politicians to take on the responsibility we have to find solutions that are good for both. But is it not also the solution of the Council of State – that larger municipalities should decide for themselves – to help us to discharge our responsibilities from central authorities and give the challenges to our local representatives around the municipalities? It is difficult to be a rapporteur and to rise to a pressure on the housing market while at the same time taking this national responsibility for cultivated land. It's a demanding task. I believe that the Council of State must be much clearer and give a much clearer signal of what should be the direction of those who stand up in it to everyday life. With its limited area for food production, cultivated and arable area constitutes 3 pst. of the total area of the country, as said earlier. It shows that strong soil protection is absolutely necessary. An overall plan for future soil protection, which has been addressed by the Left, is a matter that is important to consider in the future. The best decisions are made by providing a knowledge-based decision-making basis for establishing such a plan and setting the framework. The Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes is now issuing a new map giving an overview of the location of the arable land. It's a good tool to use if the government is actually committed to having knowledge-based decisions. As the representative of Storberget said in his statement, post-2005 developments in the re-disposal of cultivated land have been at a significantly lower level compared to the ten-year period in advance. In 2012, according to the KOSTRA figures from the SSB, 6 567 decars of cultivated land were redispatched for purposes other than agriculture. It is the lowest recorded re-disposal of cultivated land since registration started in 1976. So that's 42 pst. lower than the 10-year average before the initial setting of the soil protection target in 2004. The objective as it is today is to limit the re-disposal of cultivated land to less than 6000 deches per year. In addition, it is suggested that own State planning lines for soil protection should be used. In order to tighten the redisposal, letters were sent to municipalities, county councils and county councillors during the last period, clarifying the importance of a strong protection of the soil. The county authority has been given the objection authority following the closure of the County Agricultural Board. We in the Workers' Party believe it is important that soil protection is focused on national expectations of municipalities and counties. This is why the new Planning and Building Act introduced more instruments to strengthen soil protection. The 2009 national transport plan included soil protection considerations for the first time. As a result of a more stringent soil protection policy, less and less land cultivated is being redispatched. The measures have therefore been effective, but there is still a need for a stronger protection of the soil. So when the Council of State answers larger municipalities, my question becomes to the Council of State: what is the message to the future larger municipalities in terms of guidelines, instruments, objectives and responsibilities? What are they going to relate to?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e353	I want to thank the interpellant for the interpellation. It's an important interpellation. Soil protection is something we're all concerned about, and I've used a lot of my political life to talk about soil protection. But I also want to thank the Council of State for the answers, because I think many of the points she mentions are helping to bring this down to a practical and good level. It's not that we can ignore what our ancestors have done. As I am on the Transport and Communications Committee, I think it was reasonable to take the floor on this matter, because there is certainly not anything that has led to as much reclaimed cultivated land as just infrastructure development. For example: decided to lay down the country's main airfield to Gardermoen, there was an enormous intervention, not only in the natural area – considering the large water reservoir located below Gardermoen – but there was also a considerable pressure on the cultivated land lying around the main aerodrome. But it was a socially assessed measure that was wanted to take, not least to strengthen the business life of the neighbouring states and municipalities. The second is that we actually have an infrastructure lying there. At the pace we have in Norway to build the railway, I think I quite clearly dare to say that to some extent the railway should be laid somewhere else, is not conceivable. We also have a climate challenge that means that we actually have to try to get more people to travel collectively. Then the railway is an important element. The nodes that are currently located along the railway tracks of Akershus and other counties are the centre of the public transport effort itself. It presses the areas around these old centres, which are mostly located in agricultural areas. The balance between infrastructure, increased public transport and increased housing around the nodes and soil protection is a balance that we must always take into account and that we do not get away from. And of course, you can wonder if IKEA is a national interest, but at the same time, 70 deacons are not big in the national context either. There's something called local self-government, which then finally had to count here. The third is that when you talk about this, it is also not entirely immaterial to point out that there is a conflict of interest between protection and protection. In fact, the law of the market seizes an area of 850 km2 in Akershus. It's as much as the seven Follo municipalities together. It's also a cross of thought, because what's happening is that other protection interests have a much stronger legal protection. To some extent – I’m not going to exaggerate it – the expansion is being pushed into cultivated land, because other protective interests count more. It's also an element of the whole thing. I also believe that this with the municipal structure is actually an element. I don't really think about it. I believe that the municipal structure, getting better and fewer municipalities, is most important around the big cities, where population growth is greatest, and the area shortage appears. In fact, the 850 km2 are the same size as Follo. So on that area, we have seven municipalities. I am not in any doubt for a moment – a little bit in doubt – that if the seven municipalities had been one municipality, IKEA had never been found to be located in Vestby at all. You would put it in a completely different place, more central to Follo. The pressure on cultivated land is enormous, because we have a strong growth, we need new homes and we need to build closer. In the end, I don't think this is the case with moving the earth. It can quickly be a sleeping cushion. But one thing to take over: it's a part of increasing the price of cultivated land. If you have a requirement to move and recycle cultivated land, there will also be a higher entrance ticket to use the cultivated land.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e374	We have a 200th anniversary, and then I want to take the hall with me into the picture behind me, by Oscar Wergeland. Many of us have been sitting and looking at that picture for many hours, and not always at the speaker. If you look at the picture, you see that the window at the back of the hall is open. What are you doing outside the window that's open? You plough the country. There's a horse there, and it's ploughing. The symbolism in the picture that Oscar Wergeland painted was that now there was a new spring and new times. The only action in the picture, except for the political one, is to cultivate the adorable earth. The symbolism is also the father of the Constitution who stands and reads the Constitution and turns around and looks into our big business: now we've laid the foundation, we've created the Constitution, and now you're going to manage the legacy further. The only thing in the picture outside politics – the constitutional – is soil: the basis of life, the basis of food and the basis of civilization, as Rasmus Hansson said wisely. From the 200 years onwards, which generation of politicians has had the greatest freedom and resources? We are. Over 200 years, there's no big deal that's had so much resources to make wise choices, because we're emptying a non-renewable resource in a battle tempo. It'll be a few more years, and that resource will decrease. What do we use the financial freedom of action for? That's the choice we're going to rule Norway for the next four years. Are we going to use the freedom of action we have, to build up a renewable resource when we pump up a non-renewable? Or are we going to use the freedom we have to better arm the country for future generations? Then we have to think a little bit international. What is the international situation? Do we think there will be more stability in the world's food supply in 50–60 years, or do we think there will be more instability? All the facts suggest that it's going to be more instability. The UN has estimated that by 2050 there will be 9.3 billion people in the world. It is estimated that the world’s food production will need to be increased by approx. 70 pst. by 2050 because of more people and because more people are beginning to eat more like us in China and India. It's a huge challenge. The back porch for this is that we go into a time of more unstable climate that makes it harder to produce food. We're going to be more people, more are going to eat better in China, India and that kind of country, and the climate is going to be more unstable. The consequence of this is that what we have seen in the last five to six years, that there will be more and more unstable food prices, will be reinforced – not the opposite. Then the question is what is the wise choice? Is it wise to say that we are now in a phase where we are going to liberalise agricultural policy and make it easier to build IKEA or other types of purchasing centres? Or do we want to do the opposite? I am absolutely convinced that our children and grandchildren will thank us for every time we dare to say no to build, for example. new purchasing centres. Emergency policy is about wiping out the unmistakable. Right now, it is unmistakable for us to have problems with the food supply, just as it was unthinkable that there would be a major terrorist attack in Oslo Centre. But readiness is about drying to think the unmistakable. If there's a disturbance around the food, there's a disturbance around everything. It is therefore amazing that the Council of State spends almost all its time saying that it is the municipalities that will take all due account of soil protection. Of course, food security is a national responsibility, and, of course, the State Council of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food should be the main defender of being able to leave what we now manage in a slightly better condition than when we took over. Then it's taking care of the world the wisest investment of all. For me and the Center Party, soil protection policy is not about building soils more economically in the short term, but it's about thinking about long-term, about preparedness and what needs it can be in Norwegian society in 50, 60 or 100 years. We know that there's going to be more instability around food supply, and then we should take care of our food soil and our ability to produce food, not build it down. This is about thinking about what pays off in a generation of accounts, not what pays off in a quarterly financial report. That is why we must unite in the Great Britain and be able to stop what the government wants to liberalise that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e389	For the Center Party, soil protection has always been important, and you might understand that today. I think there are a lot of centre parties who are tired of having lost cases locally in local government in terms of soil protection. I would therefore also like to thank the inter-pellant for once again raising the issue in Stortinget – not least based on the latest proposals from the government that we have already heard about. However, I would like to make the issue further updated via a debate we heard yesterday. Yesterday, there was one thing, as we all know, about the involvement of the big-time representative Navarsete to put new E16 in the tunnel past Lærdal. Both the local government in Lærdal and the county council in Sogn and Fjordane have recommended the construction of a tunnel. to save the limited stain of food soil found in the valley. It was interesting to hear about the current program at NRK yesterday. There was a debate between the representative of Kolberg and the representative of Tetzschner, where the latter was upset that the proposal of the trade union body, that is, the State Road Administration, was rejected in favour of a more expensive alternative with a tunnel. The matter is certainly of interest in itself, but what I thought was really interesting was the statements of the representative Tetzschner, who said that the construction of this tunnel was an error investment. So I heard the representative from the Right said that saving food soil in a country where we produce less than 2.8 pst. of the land area, is incorrect. It was also said by the same representative that a tunnel, where we're saving food soil, is a great solution. I'm concerned about this approach, not least on behalf of soil protection. We're all because we need better roads and better train tracks than we have today. I am therefore pleased that the red-green government imposed more stringent restrictions on the national transport plan and on other government leaders who have been mentioned here today, in order to take into account food soils already when planning, among other things. providerases and railway tracks. I expect this to be followed up in the future – regardless of the government. However, we see that in many places – even in my own municipality of residence, where there are large areas of food soil in these days – roads are planned for more than ten years ago, which are not built until now. It hurts the soul when you see the large areas under the asphalt are added there too well. Redisposal is too rarely discussed in such a context. I think it was reasonable in that way that the representative Igstad took up. The base of use for gardeners disappears, and the production of food will decline if you continue to do so. It is therefore very important that we learn from the mistakes that have been made earlier, and take much greater care of food soil than before. At a time when we know that large countries buy up land in other countries to produce food for their own people, food soil is more important than ever, as the representative of Battle Violence Vedum said. During this period, the Grand Duchy shall vote on a draft constitution which has been promoted, inter alia. by the undersigned. This proposal aims to provide food soil with the same protection in the Constitution as important environmental considerations today. Then we might have a new challenge in terms of protection and protection, as mentioned earlier. Today, however, Norway has only 1.67 full-grown land per capita. In comparison, the corresponding number is 2 pst. on a global basis. It's a scarce resource we're talking about. I'm concerned about future food production, and after yesterday's statements in Current at the NRK, I'm further concerned. In my opinion, we need more people in the districts – not fewer, as some former magnification representatives have called for. We need more people who are in close contact with food and food production, and who see and understand the value of taking care of soil. After the debate yesterday, I am concerned about the attitudes that some parties seem to have towards this limited resource. I hope I'm wrong, and I hope that the attitudes I heard yesterday are not common to all the representatives of the government parties. We haven't voted on the constitution yet, so I hope it's still time to think carefully and well about it, and that the government's parties also vote for a constitutional protection of the food field.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e406	Thank you for a good interpellation debate and great participation. It shows that the commitment to the protection of food soils is great here in the Storting. Thank you for many good posts. The problem of taking care of food soils is complex. No one in this debate has disagreed. But it's also that the best soil is the one that gets built up first. The best food soil is under the strongest pressure, both because it's the best because it's been grown the longest, and also because the best soil in most cases is around our big cities. There is greatest pressure – on housing development, on infrastructure, on industrial development. To that we also have to say that around the big cities there are some of our best cereal fields, and it's about cereal. I have received a challenge from the representative of Ørsal Johansen regarding intercity expansion to Halden. It's pretty easy to sign out: I want double tracks and InterCity to Halden, and therefore I have to be super cool and very restrictive in all other issues relating to soil protection. If I could say yes to that, I have to say no to a lot of other things. I have no problem saying that, and I have gone to the elections on that. That's what they said here. What I think is alarming is that the government is going to push what should have been a national issue, to the municipalities and give them a greater responsibility – as I hear the Council of State say – through the municipal reform. It's alarming signals and signals to me that the Council of State and the government think carefully, because we have very little food soil that we can let go to other things. Then we also have to have a national policy on it, it has to be a national issue, and it should really – as I said in my introduction – be something a responsible state council thinks about every single day when she goes to work: what can I do today to preserve food soil? Let me give you some idea of what she can think of: You can create a base in the Earth's Law on the Protection of Food Earth. Re-cultivation of re-disposable land may be required or more stringent requirements may be imposed on land pricing. There are some suggestions that the Council of State can include in that work. I thank you at the end of this interpellation debate for your good commitment. This is the first time in this period, but not the last time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e421	Thank you for a good debate. I have to say that I am not familiar with the fact that I have sent alarming signals. On the contrary, I have sent a message that we are going to focus on putting great emphasis on the responsibility for the food soil. As I said, I'm going to work with KS. I would like to invite you to meet the rapporteurs and address this issue just to establish that with a new government there is no blank authority to build up food soils. Of course, it's going to be a national responsibility to continue to make sure that we have good and necessary food soils in the country. There is also reason to recall that food is being built up, but that at the same time there is also an authorisation to re-cultivate — in fact, to a greater extent than that which goes to re-disposal. 11,000 to 12,000 deer are newly cultivated every year. I just have to go inside the representative Pollestad, who said that a Swedish furniture house is trumping soil protection. Then it is tempting to say that in the previous ageing period it was that the central stockpiles of Rema 1000 in Trondheim trumped soil protection. What I'm counting on is that the municipalities must have the opportunity to drive economic development and develop, and that's consideration, of course, when dealing with these kinds of issues. I also find it interesting to hear the representative of Storberget. I'm glad the Workers' Party is focusing heavily on soil protection. We know that when they crashed alone in the 1990s, the rate of degradation of cultivated land was above twice what it is today. There were also questions about whether we would be in favour of more laws, regulations and over-management of the municipalities. This government wants less government, that's all. We want to facilitate the empowerment of municipalities because we have faith in our local politicians. But it is important that, of course, as politicians, we send signals about what is policy at national level. We know that the previous government had a hearing out there that had to do with stronger protection in the law of the land. You didn't choose to go on with that. So you had eight years to make such a provision if you thought it was important. I want to show that the five municipalities that built the most land in the period 2005-2012 were Sola, Trondheim, Melhus, Sandnes and Fredrikstad. Common to all these municipalities is that there are real press areas – they are among the largest press areas in the country – so it is also important to bring them along. But I think that one can be better at building higher and closer, and that's what I'm going to focus on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e438	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e454	‘Trailers in winterland’ I have chosen to call this. An increasing number of trailers are causing great concerns and are a danger moment on our winter roads. Many of these are foreign trailers. I fear that even more accidents are coming, and that there is only one question of time. We have to prevent this from happening again. Bad tyres, lack of chain, lack of knowledge, number of driving axles, poor roads, poorly maintained roads, bad weather – yes, there are many things that create blockages on Norwegian winter roads. At the beginning of this winter we have seen a growing problem, not least in North Norway, but we have also seen it in other parts of the country, as in the West. Under the red-green government, reinforced requirements were introduced for tyres, chains and increased controls, but we already see that this is not enough. Today, we have a developmental problem on the winter roads. But the biggest problem is that road safety is getting worse, and that all those who travel in traffic are doing so at greater risk. We can't accept that luck is what's going to save us from an opposing, slippery trailer. We also see that there has been a great deal of focus on this problem from many teams, and especially from the northern part of the country. There is even a separate Facebook action group – The People's Action Against Killing Trailers – created by Øystein Bentzen from my neighbouring municipality, Rana. It shows a little bit of the enormous commitment to the matter. In three days he got 50,000 followers on his Facebook page, and he now has over 80,000. Here you can be updated on much of what happens on Norwegian winter roads, but unfortunately much of it is negative. In November, the head of the UP in Nordland, Knut Danielsen, went out in the NRK and in several newspapers. There he said, among other things: that he feared the lives of other road users and that a major accident between a heavy-duty vehicle and a passenger car could be imminent. I understand that people are anxious. There's every reason to take this seriously. Fear, unfortunately, is real. I have got fresh figures for North Norway from the State Road Administration for 2013, and there we see that it has been approx. 420 closures caused by trailers in 2013, until mid-November. And the December figure, which I got today, shows that there were another 135 closures on the Norwegian roads only in December. Of these 420 were 250 non-resident car combinations, so trailers from abroad caused over 50 pst. of the closures. This also shows that there are not only problems with the foreign car combinations, which has also been shown by controls, but there is no doubt that there was a greater share of the foreign trailers who were banned from driving and that a greater proportion of them caused closure. And now that we see that there is an increase in foreign vehicle trains in Norway, this is also an increasing problem. That is why, across the board, we need to take both new and stronger action together. The working party launched several measures in the summer that will help improve the situation. Common to them is that they have to go up and out today. All consequences – positive and negative – must be brought to the table to make decisions. The faster we do this, the faster we can get changes that make Norwegian winter roads safer. That is why both I and the Labour Party are pleased that the matter is being discussed today in Stortinget. I also record that the Minister agrees with these problems and takes this seriously. The previous government implemented several measures to improve conditions. The working party also launched, as mentioned earlier, further actions in the summer. A working group was also set up, which is now well started to look at the problem of cabotage, which is also an important factor in this growing problem. It is gratifying that the new government and the minister are continuing this group's work. The measures to combat social dumping in the transport sector launched by the Workers' Party last summer have been widely endorsed by the trade unions and the Transport Workers' Association, and it is important to continue working on this and to take the necessary measures to improve the situation for the future. Some of the measures that the Workers' Party considers need to be further assessed are the introduction of joint and several liability, so that transport buyers are jointly and severally responsible for the costs and proper conditions of the drivers and vehicles of the companies from which they purchase services. We have to ask the contracting entities about the claims of the carriers, and here I have a good example from Northern Ireland: Nova Sea at Lovund took the initiative and began to control its own carriers. This has led 15 farms in North Norway to engage in the Safer Trailer project in cooperation with the State Road Administration, which is aimed specifically at foreign road trains. Extended control and sanctioning options, both at border crossings and on the roads, have been introduced, and this needs to be strengthened. We must give the Road Administration and the police the opportunity to stop vehicles and strengthen the interaction between the Road Administration and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and it is also important not to forget those who come by boat to Norway. However, it is also necessary to increase the requirements for equipment and competence for wintering, such as: requirements for smooth driving courses, proper winter tyres – not only on the car, but also on the suspensions. Therefore, it is a paradox that there was no requirement for winter tyres on the drapes when this was now adopted for the trailers, especially when you hear the reason – whether it is then correct. The Ministry of Transport cut off the requirement for winter tyres on trailers on the grounds that it was not possible to obtain such tyres, and that means that today a combination of vehicles with summer tyres is running on the suspensions. The requirement is that the tyres shall have a depth of five millimetres. The fatal accident that we had on Hitra in December was the result of a hanger's sling, and this hanger had summer tires. All of us who drive a car understand that driving on winter driving with summer tyres instead of winter tyres is a significant increase in risk, so using the term ‘death machines’ on these trails is not so strange. I also believe that you have to look at the ban that applies to two-axle towing vehicles in winter, which I also see that the head of the UP in Nordland made a proposal through Rana Blade yesterday. It is also necessary to have stricter rules for cabotage operations. We see that Finland has introduced a narrower interpretation of what constitutes a cabotage mission. According to the Finnish definition, a cabotage operation allows only one loading and one unloading, and it will not be possible to carry out several tasks on the same journey, such as: takes place in Norway. It is also important to increase the response to transport crime. Economy is an important factor in the industry, and here's all the reason to call out a warning. As it operates today, it undermines the industry, which in turn means a lower economy for the transport industry, leading to both poorer drivers and equipment. The working party will be at the forefront in order to ensure proper working and competition conditions in the transport sector. Together with the parties in the transport sector, we will make a real effort to combat the unsustainable conditions that we see in our transport sector every week. It is also important that the government takes the fight against social dumping seriously in all sectors. You have to do what you can to stop the unprofessional and illegal actors. Under the red-green government it was decided to introduce as a single measure a mandatory bomb block for vehicles above 3,5 tonnes. The decision has not yet been taken, but we expect this to be done as soon as possible. With the rapid implementation force the blue-blue government boasts, I expect this to have a high priority. But we also know that many people only run without paying. This can be prevented by saying that if you are going into the country, a person must have a certain sum paid in advance on the tiles. The situation in the transport sector is very serious both for the working conditions of drivers and for the conditions of competition of serious undertakings, which are at risk of competition from unprofessional operators. Those who underpay their drivers and have poorly equipped pictures threaten the safety of our roads. It goes without saying that a 50-tonne vehicle without winter tyres on Norwegian roads is fatal. That is why we need a government that takes the problems seriously – not a Right Party government that has used in recent years to counter social dumping. Never has the Right Party or the Advance Party taken up a single proposal against social dumping on its own, but I now expect – with you in government – that you take this seriously and do something about it. A central online register of transport operations should also be established to facilitate control by the authorities, which is currently hopeless. So finally, the National Road Safety Action Plan is under review, and there should also be a greater and more central place for foreign trailers on Norwegian winter roads. Of course, this also applies to Norwegian trailers. In the Workers' Party, we are ready to introduce new and reinforced measures to improve conditions for the transport industry, and not least for road safety. Finally, I would like to repeat my question from the text of the interpellation, and I look forward to the answer: What will the Council of State do to prevent heavy-duty vehicles from posing a traffic risk on Norwegian winter roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e509	Both road safety and fair competition between actors – regardless of the market involved – are important both for me and for this government. We also showed this in the 2014 budget, which, as a result of the agreement in Stortinget, led to a sharp increase in the maintenance of tunnels. It's about road safety. We got a reinforcement of the work on walking and cycling paths and that kind of thing. Much of my work in the next three months the new government has been sitting, has also been about getting things into place that are about road safety, better accessibility and better competition between the players in the industry. Now I must first say that I was on a memorial in Westfold last Sunday, where one remembered the six who died in Westfold traffic. Unfortunately, there has been a sharp increase in the number of lost drivers and passengers in the year that has passed, all over the country. The girl who held the memorial speech had lost her sister in a meeting accident when the sister had come in dense fog only 20 centimeters above the center line and met a trailer. There was a fatal outcome. Fortunately, statistics have not shown any marked change in the case of trailer accidents. There is no comfort in the fact that accidents do not increase, but it shows that the road safety picture is more complicated than just pointing at trailers. But one likes to feel a special insecurity when one meets trailers on narrow roads. At least I did so when I visited the Road Safety Authority before Christmas to discuss road safety. When a driver runs the E16 from Bergen to Voss, there is not much that separates when driving a passenger car and meets a vehicle train on a vehicle train that goes from west to east or vice versa. There are some perspectives on how small margins we sometimes operate with, which require the driver to be always aware of, and that small conditions in the lane can create serious situations. Therefore, it is important that we continue to work on getting safer roads. Some places you have to look at trasé choices, some places it's about maintenance, and sometimes it's about both. It is important that we strengthen the work of ensuring that we have safe vehicles here. This applies to both Norwegian registered vehicles and not least to the increasing flood of non-resident vehicles. It is important that we have safe drivers, and that we have people who understand what kind of driving conditions they are moving in, and who are running according to the conditions on the road, and who know how to act if they come out of unforeseen weather – especially wintertime. There we see that there are great variations. It is not only foreign drivers who do wrong, but Norwegian drivers as well. There are mainly foreign drivers standing across the road during winter, because they do not control driving conditions, but unfortunately there is an overrepresentation of Norwegian drivers ending up off the road in accidents. Here it's not like the Nordics are nice, and the foreigners are the bandits. This is about the serious versus the unprofessional actors, regardless of nationality. We also have to bring that with us. Therefore, it is also important that we ensure that there is a fair competition here, and that it is the good and good transport companies that win the job and survive in the competition – not that they are challenged by unprofessional operators, regardless of nationality, who cheat a little on the quality of the vehicles, how they load the car and how they pay the drivers. There I fully agree with the representative Juvik: we must ensure that it is the serious ones who work. We need to ensure that we do not get a number of drivers to Norway who have barely driven a trailer before, but who suddenly, due to EEA rules and such, can drive across Europe without special control activities and thus get away with driving conditions that are completely different from what they are used to from southern Europe. We've already had a lot of meeting points on that, both with industry and various agencies, to get a stronger effort. I am very pleased that the representative Juvik points to the implementation force, because we have already, in almost three months, done a lot. We took the early initiative to meet the industry, just to get their description of reality, to see if everything we had heard voted, and to hear what the industry thought should be done by measures. It is obvious that although it has been done a little – at the latest now with the introduction of requirements for winter tyres and increased pattern depth – there are very many things that have been undone, unfortunately. We've now planned a meeting between the agencies, because we see that the U.S. Police and the Road Administration in different parts of the country give different descriptions through the media of what they think they're allowed to do and are not allowed to do in terms of driving bans, fines and that kind of thing. It is important that all the agencies in all parts of Norway perceive legislation and legislation in the same way and practice it in the same way. There are opportunities to practice the harder places in the country than what you have dared to do locally. Then we have to make sure that they are clearly informed about using the law and not just calling for new laws. It's not always the laws that are the problem, but it can be unclear information outside. It is also important to have a two-way communication. Where there is little in the law, we will of course look at it and propose changes that strengthen the ability of the authorities to exercise it in a good way. I have already visited the Road Safety Authority, just to get their picture of the situation, and both the undersigned and the Minister of Justice have participated in several inspections with the police and the Vegvessen to hear from the professionals in this field how they experience this. I feel that we have awfully good people. Some of them can hear if there is something wrong with a car just by driving by. It shows that there is a lot of experience that we need to build on, and we need to make sure that the Road Administration and the Police Department are attractive jobs that keep up their skills. One of the first governments did was increase the appropriations for control activities. There was money coming in because we got a government change, and we have seen a significant increase in the level of activity, both in Svinesund/Erje and in North Norway. I'm very happy about that. What I noticed when I visited Vegvesenet on Svinesund was that one thing is the control business, but the question is what powers they have when the check is done, and they see that the car is missing. There's obviously a lot that hasn't been done, and that we're going to give clear signals about. It is about practicing driving bans on cars that are not in good condition. Then they say, well, some cars are just going to Oslo, and the lead today is so good that there is no problem driving to Oslo. It is a practical and convenient approach, but the problem is that there is no system in place today that ensures that the car runs right back from Oslo and out of the country. Such a system does not exist, and I ask myself why not. Of course, we have to introduce it, and we are doing that. The car has today the possibility to drive to Oslo and deliver the cargo, but then it can start taking cabotage operations. It's not quite according to what you promised at the border, but there are many who do it anyway, and all of a sudden you're on your way across some mountain passes. The only chance of control is if you are taken into routine control or if you are exposed to an accident. Unfortunately, many take that chance. The follow-up of the temporary movement permits granted is important. It ensures that we charge the fines, so that it actually becomes an economic burden to come to Norway and not have everything in order, instead of running away from the fines, which we see very often. According to the NRK, who interviewed one in Vegvesenet, foreign trailers owe over 200 million dollars. kr in fines and tolls. It says a little bit about an unfair competition situation, and it makes it even more difficult for the government and the Stortinget to achieve the goal of getting more goods onto the cold and the railways, because you get transport operators on the roads that can compete out of this, because they don't pay their share of the costs. In the case of tyres and depth of pattern, the previous government shall have the credit for it. But when the representative Juvik criticises that there is no requirement for winter tyres on trailers, there is something that was removed by the same government. We're in dialogue with the industry to see how we can put it in a good way. We are also concerned when we see a lot of chaos on the roads over the mountains in winter. That is why we are about to launch a so-called concept selection inquiry, which looks at all the crossroads in Norway, to see where to take action quickly to improve accessibility and where to make larger investments that take longer. We have to get a picture of how we're going to put in the resources, because we can't have it the way it has been. We also need to look at important trajectories in some places, and during the previous government a so-called concept selection investigation was started for E16 between Bergen and Voss – the road section I mentioned. I look forward to that investigation being completed during this year, so that we can move on to look at completely new trajectories. We also need to look at the truck stop. We need to set up more truck stops. There we are in dialogue with the industry to see how you can do this commercially, instead of always waiting for government appropriations. We are in the process of introducing mandatory bombs on trucks, because there is one way to ensure fair competition between the different actors, that foreign companies do not run away from the bill, so Norwegian drivers have to take it. On some trasés, tolls can make up thousands of dollars on one stretch. If you don't pay, you immediately challenge the Norwegian players, who you know how to collect money from. It is high traffic growth, a comprehensive road network and many different weather and traffic conditions. That's what makes it challenging. What we can provide is that our people have the ability and the ability to break and keep on the same roads, and that they find and stop the cars that weren't supposed to be on the roads, from driving on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e562	I thank the Minister for the answer, and he continues as far as I said in my introduction, namely that he shows that he is addressing the growing problem – not least from a road safety perspective, and that is the most important thing. Of course, none of us like to get the news we got just before Christmas, for example. It's from Hitra. There could have been a lot worse: the father came straight from the kindergarten. He had three children in the car, but two of them he dropped off. Unfortunately, the father was not doing well, but the child was doing well. Such accidents I expect that none of us want to have in the future, and therefore, of course, we agree on a zero vision and looking at the measures. I also see other newspaper clippings where you are really worried. These are professionals, including: driver-school teachers, who speak out. One says, among other things: that the new rules on vehicle combinations are fatal. Then he refers to the tyre rules. As I said in my post, there will be a vehicle of 40–50 tonnes with summer tyres on the trailer. I don't believe any of us sitting here, driving with a trailer without a high-end tire, even on a passenger car. We'd rather leave it on the road until it gets bare. I also register that the Minister has taken the road safety perspective, and he uses as an example what they have managed to do with the tunnels. I do not disagree with the importance of upgrading the tunnels, but then there will be a small paradox when considering perhaps removing the most important road safety measure in the case of tunnels, and that is average measurement, which has been introduced with great luck. We actually see a reduction in traffic accidents in the tunnels of 27 pst. The minister said yesterday that he decided not to build it on several new sections. It amazes me with regard to overall road safety. I am pleased that the Minister is looking ahead and recording the problems that are. He also looks forward to what we're going to get. The Labour Party and I sincerely believe that this debate is to be addressed constructively in order to look at further measures to improve this situation. It is also the case that some of the measures mentioned here require coordination with the other neighbouring countries. An example is cabotage – not least the practice of cabotage operations. Similarly, it should be a curative matter to put in place winter deck instructions on hangars, but it must go through it as well. It is now important in the context of the road safety plan to also lift it up with trailers.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e577	This is an important debate. It is said that it is fun that the Council of State has registered the problem – no, you know what! This government that is now sitting in opposition has pointed to the problem for a very long time and demanded action. It's happened a little bit, but too little. That's exactly why I'm very happy that we now have the chance to do something about the problems, and so we're doing well. I mentioned increased control activities, I mentioned many of the measures we are now taking after meeting people who work in road traffic stations, and how to follow up the problems they are discovering, but who are now feeling powerless above. To tunnels: So what's been the big problem with tunnels is not trailer drivers running rough, but it's trailers coming in fire. That's why it's so important to protect against fire in tunnels. That's why there's a priority over speed regulation. But speed is obviously harmful – when young people drive too fast and lose control of the car. As far as the tyre rules are concerned, I must remind you that the previous government had the opportunity to impose winter tyres on trailers, but it did not, on the contrary – and you are now criticising today's government that it is not in place. We're working on it, but unfortunately, there are some things that take longer than we want. It's not because we don't look at it, but it's just because there's too many processes that we have to simplify. The simplification work is also in progress, but it takes time. To coordinate with the rest of the world: when I was in Sweden at the beginning of December, the trailer problem was just one of the things we raised. We agreed that we should sit down at the office level and look at how we can co-operate and co-operate control activities and information on suspicious trailers across borders. So that work was started, but there was nothing going on when we took over the government offices. Let me take up the last point, which I unfortunately forgot: winter driver's license. There are strict requirements for drivers to be able to drive trailers in Norway. You have to go on a lot of courses – a smooth course is one of them – to show that you are in control of Norwegian weather and traffic conditions. But the individual stranger who comes doesn't have to show any knowledge about it. It has been seen through the media that foreign drivers — mainly Eastern Europeans — admit to coming to Norway and going on wintering for the very first time. They have no experience in winter driving, nor with a passenger car. It worries me. Therefore, we are working on demanding that you drive in Norway – you can come from where you want to go in the world – to show that you have taken a course in order to be able to control the driving conditions that are wintertime. It is possible that we have problems with the European Union here, but I am willing to take that fight, because this is very important. Norwegian drivers may not be subject to strict requirements, while they are free from foreign drivers. Again, that means something about the competitive relationship between the actors. I want us to have the best drivers on Norwegian roads, not just those that are the cheapest and without competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e592	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for having raised a very important debate. I'm assuming that a lot of people will sign on, even outside this hall. The case, as the interpellant points out, has several sides. We, who belong to the Labour and Social Committee, have a special responsibility for the part of the case complex that deals with tidy working conditions and competition on equal terms, where it should not be such that serious carriers, who take their responsibilities and social responsibility seriously, have to give up on those who only hunt profit, cost what it will cost. Unfortunately, we see that we are not quite where we should be. There are several sectors, but it is particularly serious in the transport sector, which we are discussing today, because this also affects safety along Norwegian roads. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of that. It is simply about life and health for the ordinary man and woman who travel along the road – to and from daily tasks such as work, action, delivery and collection in kindergartens and schools. In the backseat is often the most precious thing we have: our children. Therefore, it is positive when the Sundvolden Declaration states that the government will ‘continue its work against social dumping’, which was launched under the red-green government. The Solberg Government clearly states that it is unacceptable for some industries to be affected by social dumping and unacceptable pay and working conditions, both for the workers affected and for competing companies that comply with the law. Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson has confirmed these promises on a question from the representative Fredric Holen Bjørdal last October. He also said in clear terms that it is the government that sets the agenda for this work, and that it should do so by means of targeted measures that allow the non-profit actors to emerge and facilitate fair competition. It's positive. But in the transport sector, this is also about road safety. Then I find it a little worrying when, in the same reply, the Minister of Labour stresses that he will first evaluate the measures taken to combat social dumping so far, and then consider any new measures. It's an old expression that says that time is money. In the situations we are discussing today, time can also be questions of life and death. I therefore hope that the Minister for Transport can be a little more concrete than his colleague in the answer to the question from the interpellant: What does the Council of State do to follow up the government's own statement? What new measures are on the stairs? When are they coming? The red-green government launched before the elections Action Plan No. 3 against social dumping, including the proposal for a separate tripartite sectoral programme for the transport sector, for the time being in seven specific points, including inter alia: joint and several liability, so that transport buyers can not only buy services for a reasonable amount of money, close their eyes and pretend that they do not know. Solidarity is a point in previous action plans against social dumping which the Progress Party has opposed. Is that still the attitude of the Progress Party? Or does the government statement mean that the position has changed in a more positive direction? What does the government think about more frequent checks and increased sanctions for the Road Administration? In part, the Council of State has been involved. Will we be provided with winter tyres for both towing vehicle and trailer? Yes, the Council of State has also been involved. The opportunities to identify critical issues will be strengthened by the introduction of regional protection agencies for the transport sector. The Council of State has not said anything about that. The question is: are the government parties still opposed to using the advantage of a nationwide network of active and competent trustees in actual fact in detecting illegal circumstances? What about stricter rules for cabotage operations? In a series of media projections over the past six months, the police have also reported that there is a significant amount of false driving licences in circulation in heavy goods transport. Then we are not just talking about the lack of equipment and the breach of rest provisions. We are therefore at risk of meeting incompetent drivers in addition – not only drivers who lack a smooth course, but drivers who lack competence on heavy-duty vehicles in general. My question is: will the Council of State help the police to obtain better equipment for checking the authenticity of driving licences? As important as getting better rules is also enforcing the rules that we have and hopefully get. Too often we see examples of violations of the rules on driving time, rest periods and cabotage. On the other hand, there are good examples, for example: from Lærdal and Voss, that rapid and cash responses to offences are also preventative. It certainly requires closer cooperation between different sectoral authorities. The Council of State had so much to say that there was a dialogue going on in its reply. So my question is whether the Council of States can also be a little more specific about what he expects of such cross-sectoral cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e611	Badly protected foreign car combinations have been a heavy burden on Norwegian roads for many, many years. It poses both a major risk of loss of life and a major challenge for the business community that uses Norwegian roads and experiences roads being closed for shorter or longer periods because foreign car combinations block them, thus also preventing goods from entering the market. In Nordic countries, these commodities are often fresh fish that need quick access to the market. It is affordable that the Workers' Party is also engaged in this matter now. They've been with the government for eight years and could have done more than they did those years. But this is an important matter regardless of which party governs. It is important that we engage ourselves in order to improve conditions on Norwegian winter roads. The introduction of pattern depth requirements on towing vehicles was a bit on the road, but it was actually, as the minister also says, the previous government that did not ensure that it was also introduced on hangars. It's very regrettable, because, as the representative Juvik said, it's often the hangers who have summer tyres, and who sneak into the roadway, and unfortunately can hit cars and thus lead to the loss of human lives. The right is very pleased that the government, as a rapid measure of the last harvest, introduced funds, and introduced more frequent customs controls along the borders to prevent poorly-shoeed car combinations from entering the country. Furthermore, not least the increased investment in road construction that this government has taken a decision on the last harvest is important. Only in Northern Ireland have the county roads — the roads that it took over from the state in 2010 — been set at 7.8 billion. kr. Therefore, the formidable effort made by the Right-wing Party Government in the December budget was important. Only through increased appropriations and new forms of funding will we be able to develop the Northern Norwegian and Norwegian roads more quickly, and thus also participate in an action to improve the conditions for foreign and Norwegian trailers as well. There is no doubt that more investment on the road and building the road are good measures, but I am also very happy to accept the measures outlined by the Minister in his response to the inter-pellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e625	Thank you to the interpellant Juvik who addresses this important topic. We are all road users, and we expect that we can travel safely on the roads and come home to our loved ones. This is why, as discussed, roadside traffic security measures are important. Therefore, it is important that we discuss running gear in a defensive state, and that we have safe and posted drivers. In the West, where we have narrow roads and mountain crossings with steep and smooth roads, like in Northern Ireland, this is a very important thing. We see that there are more and more running gear, often of foreign origin, which is too poorly protected, and which does not comply with the rules on running and sleeping time. This gets and can get fatal consequences: There's someone who doesn't come home to their loved ones. That's why this is so important. Therefore, it is important that we put in targeted measures where there is the highest risk, so that we can capture those trailers that are not in a defensive position, which pose a risk to road safety. Therefore, the Center Party believes that one must have tightened the requirements for the pattern depth, winter tyre requirements and additional control operations that capture the risk – by having control operations at the border and at the mountain crossings, and that there is no need to speculate and plan for these controls to be carried out. One must also work towards the EU in order to have stricter legislation when it concerns the possibilities of foreign carriers to operate transport operations in Norway. The Minister has listed many good measures in both road safety and fair competition. It is important to separate the unprofessional from the serious, and there are many important road safety measures, as I call them. I look forward to the concept evaluation that is mentioned, where one looks at the mountain crossings – is the lowland line one then imagines, in one way or another, to remedy some of these measures – and truck stops and winter driver cards, yes, many important measures that I am pleased to come up with. This will be very important to address quickly, in order to address a problem that means a great deal to road safety on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e636	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing the matter in an excellent way. It is clear that the matter begins with the introduction and with the question that goes to the Council of State on the basis of the road safety problem, namely that there are many trailers blocking the road. Many of them have foreign owners or drivers. There is far too much knowledge of driving, and therefore the trail poses a risk to road safety. It's about equipment, and it's about knowledge, just like the interpellant said, and as the Council of State took up in its posts. But the other two sides that both the interpellant and the state councils take up are something that puts this into a larger perspective. It is also about social dumping. The basic principle is that work carried out in Norway should be carried out in accordance with Norwegian pay and working conditions. From this point of view, this debate goes on to deal with two other very topical issues, namely the debate on who is to load and unload in our ports, where it is going on today, among other things. a conflict in Risavika and a discussion in the port of Oslo. It is precisely whether loading and unloading should be carried out by qualified people with Norwegian pay and working conditions or whether it should be carried out by unskilled persons on board ships with poorer pay and working conditions. The second issue of social dumping is the discussion of Norwegian, Bjørn Kjos’ company, namely whether to compete for ticket prices by dumping employees’ wages. It is a lively debate, in other words, one that is far reaching. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport in his reply to the interpellant made it very clear that he thought that we should have a serious interest in the industry. One should compete on equal terms, and that also means pay and working conditions. There I perceived the Minister of Transport as being clear. The third part is about unprofessionalism: we can have laws, but it doesn't matter when people don't follow the laws. We may have tolls – I know very well that the Minister for Transport is opposed to tolls, but I am very happy that he makes it so clear that when we have tolls, everyone has to pay them. Sneaking away from tolls is not a heroic fight against tolls, it's simply unprofessionalism and social dumping. When we talk about unprofessionalism, we talk about people who don't know how to operate large trucks in Norwegian road and traffic conditions, and about illegal cabotage, just like others did. One has the right to operate a limited form of loading and unloading, but not if a driver carries it to much greater extent, and elsewhere, than one has warned. We have the unprofessionalism with the people who run away from both fines and tolls that they are required to pay, and thus create a very wrong competitive situation in relation to others – in addition to stealing from the community, they are not allowed to contribute. However, we should not undermine the fact that, both in the Norwegian market and in the EU, there are different actors who have different interests: Norwegian truck owners who are concerned about having the same competitive conditions as others, and Norwegian employees are engaged in having proper pay and working conditions. But it's also those who buy logistics services, who have a responsibility, but who will initially be concerned with having the lowest prices possible. And of course, it's the foreign players who look at Norway as a market. I'm not going further into this. I have no intention of criticising the Minister of Transport. I thought a good part of what was said was very good. You were clear on what kind of direction you want to go in. However, I would like to ask some very specific questions, which the Minister for Transport has the opportunity to answer in the last round. One concerns the interpellant, namely the practice of stricter cabotage rules in Finland than is perceived in Norway. Will the Minister be in order to have rules similar to those in Finland in Norway? When, if appropriate, will these be introduced? The ban on driving on before the fine is paid – is there something that the Minister will introduce, and if so when? When do the mandatory bombers arrive? Is it also going to involve some kind of prepayment, or is it going to be postponing also in what the minister says? When can we expect winter driving licenses or equivalent introduced in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e657	There is a very important debate that has been raised here today – all the tribute to the interpellant for having seen the searchlight on this. In the media, this is often produced as a pure winter problem, but as most people here have pointed out, it is not. It is important that the trailers are well protected for Norwegian wintering, but other things are also important. We who live around the district are well aware of the problem of trailers outside the road and trailers that block the road. We often fear to meet trailers on some routes. There is enough agreement among us that took part in the debate today, that we need more action to prevent heavy goods vehicles from posing a risk in traffic. I hope this deal also applies to the demanding conditions of competition and work in the truck industry, which many people have pointed out. I want to give you a story from reality when it's just this. The trailer was in a fire, and the reason was a primus that had rolled into the car. It turned out that the driver had such poor working conditions that he did not have time and money to stop and cook, so he cooked food on the primus inside the car while he was running. Another problem is that many people have wrong patterns, and they're not used to the steep mountain passes and our steep slopes. The brakes are hot. Nor is there any retarder, a water-cooled brake system attached to the intermediate axle, which Norwegian trailers generally use. The drivers I've been talking to after the accident in the Gudvanga tunnel are overestimated that poor maintenance and hot passage in the braking system was the cause of the big fire accident that occurred there. I want to stop a little bit at this particular event, because it clearly shows that it's profitable with enhanced and increased control at the borders of Norway. After failure, all pass traffic stops for the week. The bypass was long and curved. This led to large extra costs for business — e.g. the loss of tourism industries in the internal social economy of high incomes – and this led to large turnover costs for people. Enhanced control of the running equipment is a requirement I have met from many in this industry. I support it. The increase in controls we saw last fall probably has many lives. And it's amazing stories that come to light – trailers with completely blank, worn-out tyres and with very poor technical standards. The business life in Norway is going well. The number of trailers on the roads is increasing, which is troubling and challenging both emergence and road safety. Fortunately, in the last year, some new preventive measures have been introduced. An important measure is, of course, the new winter tyre requirement for vehicles above 3500 kg. This winter the control of vehicle combinations at the border crossings and on required road sections has also been reinforced. That's good, but there's probably a need for additional tools here, too. Quality requirements for tyres on vehicle combinations are one example. Recently there was a death blow on Hitra – the towing vehicles had winter tyres, but the trailer didn't. This is unfortunately law today – as several have said here – but I think that everyone in this room is a few that this should not be allowed. The entire vehicle combination must be protected. So a little bit about the risk of actually being drawn, and what the penalty level is. There are often media claims that foreign drivers are being handled milder and more debilitating than Norwegian drivers. I don't know if that's the case, but violations of the rules on running and sleeping time and cabotage rules are all too often removed from the authorities' side. A good example is that it benefits – it was referred to by the representative Lise Christoffersen – is Lærdal and Voss. They have increased efforts when it comes to rapid and cash responses to crime, which has led to a marked decrease in the law offences in these districts and to an increase in road safety. We're all lit up with a tighter code and enforcement of this code. There must be a high risk of being stopped and checked, and it must be sweaty - not just for the driver. We make stricter demands on the contractors. Solidarity – that transport drivers are jointly and severally responsible for costs and that there are proper conditions for drivers and drivers – will be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e681	I think it's an interesting debate. But what might be a little strange is that it's sometimes made like we haven't discussed this before. So for eight years we had a majority government that took up a lot of this problem in the hall – this year after year. Now it is almost made that this is a problem that has come about, and it is expected that the government will deliver within two to three months. I would like to mention an example from the region I come from. There we have great challenges with trailers in winter-time. One shall be aware that there are also ferry terminals which are considered to be a border. The E39 is a very important European road. It starts on the continent, goes through Hirtshals, over Skagerrak and to Kristiansand. This means that there are a lot of trailers coming from countries where it is not possible to drive on high decks, and where it is not possible to have relevant tyres on the car. Such cars then come to the dock. There has been a call for close cooperation between customs, road services and others that can prevent special combinations of vehicles coming directly onto the E39. This has been called for over several years – not only by this representative, but by many other representatives from South Africa. These measures have not been taken seriously by different transport ministers from the red-green government. One needs, among other things: place of these car combinations on the berth, so that they do not get on the road. One needs information brochures in a language other than Norwegian at foreign terminals, at berths. One needs interaction and agreements with customs, etc. This has not been done well enough. The new government is very focused on getting this done. Then there was a little discussion about how we should tackle the matter when there is a vehicle that is not going out on Norwegian roads. Should we seize passports? Should we demand payment there and there? The Council of State is very clear that if we require winter driving licences, he will take up the fight with the EU, which I would commend to the Council of State for being willing to do. In the case of E39, it's not just useful to do one thing. It was a serious accident on the E39 west of Kristiansand, where four young people died. It was then very clearly stressed that the middle parts here would repair new accidents. I want to commend the Minister of Transport at that time – it was Meltveit Kleppa – who started an investigation, and put in place a mint work on a stretch of approx. 300 meters. But in the same case, it was not provided with the means to secure a crab field or a four-field solution in the same place. This was in a hill. What happened then? Well, one had up to four hours of closure in this ground because one now had no possibility for trailers that drove to the side, because one had a middle part. It tells me that we have to think completely, we have to say both- and not do it piece by piece and division, as the former red-green government did it. It actually meant that there was no alternative way between Kristiansand and Stavanger. The road was locked, it was closed for several days. It was closed so that one had to find alternative roads, which meant that a cut distance of 21 miles in order to be able to get both car trains and normal cars on. What is important to us now is that we say together – cross-politically – that we want to do something about it, and that all parties are set up when the new government is now so clearly signaling that they will take care of the different problems here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e698	First, I would like to thank everyone for a good debate and contributions. It is important that the Storting take this seriously, debate it and take the matter further. It was not an attempt by the undersigned to criticise the new government regarding winter tyres on the trailer – I understood it was perceived this way by both the minister and the representative Michaelsen. That's not what I did. I pointed out a paradox and a weakness in the system that was, not least in terms of road safety, and it was a constructive attempt to take us further into that matter. It's not like the trailers are running so much in tunnels. They shall initially have a speed limit so that it can be avoided. But it is not such – unfortunately – that they are alone in these tunnels. The possibility of controlling the tunnels with average measurements would at least have made the drivers who might be able to approach the trailer avoid getting at good speed and create a dangerous situation. It's true to bet on the road. This was done by the previous government through the NTP, and they have done so further in the proposal that is now under way. Although the representative, Ebbesen, pointed out that more effort was to be made on the roads in Northern Ireland, there are also some roads waiting, on which we are excited. This is clearly not just a North Norway problem, it is a problem for everyone who has wintering. It is also right, as the representative said, that this is not just a wintering problem either. There are also other problems concerning both social dumping and the unprofessional actors, which not only concern wintering. It's a growing problem if we're at least going to follow the numbers of winter. As I said, I got updated figures on how many closures there have only been in North Norway in the last four months last year. There have been 772 stops just on the roads in North Norway caused by trailers. It is a doubling of the average from the years 2008 to 2012. It can be due to many things, not only that there is more traffic, but it obviously has to do with weather and lead as well. There are things we can do reasonably quickly, which we agree on, but it is important to look at the main points that have been discussed here: competence, equipment, control, solidarity, transport crime and that with social dumping. If we agree to take hold of these things, we have come a long way. I look forward to our working together taking forward these issues and finding good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e713	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for the debate. It has been a good opportunity for the government to show what measures we are already taking. I invite the opposition in the future to make recordings that can further reinforce this, but I feel that in all the areas of traffic safety, and this that the interpellation initially took up, the government is already in the process. In some areas, we can deliver in a very short time, because work has also been started by the previous government. This applies, inter alia, to: bomb flares. In some other areas, unfortunately, we have to start from scratch. That means that things will take longer. It can be done, among other things: on this with winter driving licences and on some of the things on which those carrying out the checks must be clarified as to how they can handle the various vehicles. There we will deliver as soon as possible. If it's further wishes from Stortinget, I'll meet them so that together we can do this even better. So some of the questions that were raised here. First, the authenticity of driving licences: we became aware of the problem both through the media and in our meetings with the industry. Unfortunately, what the industry says is that they can book fake driving licences from abroad during the day, which are almost impossible for police and customs in Norway to discover. It points out that we also need to ensure that one in Europe has a common computer system where one not only looks at the physical piece, but that one can also control it – just like one does with passport checks – to see if that licence also exists in a system. It's probably a longer canvas to bleach, but we're already doing that work. In terms of chain, there's one thing to control if you have enough chains. There are many of these controllers who say that we can count the chains, but we know that these people don't have any idea how they use them. Therefore, control stations must be given increased authority over what they can test and check drivers for. In the case of cabotage – very important – we have also been in contact with the industry, both drivers, the trade union movement and the NHO system, in order to find the system that works here, also in the light of the Data Protection Agency, which allows you to control the loads of goods, and thus to draw attention to whether there are drivers who take more transport than they are allowed to. There's a lot of good things here. As far as the bombers are concerned, I assume that we will get in place with them during 2014 – and the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has found out. In the case of winter driving licences, I'm more uncertain, because here's a lot of broken ground we have to go through. Finally, it is important to get serious in the workplace. I experience that in many industries the vast majority of actors are serious. But we also need to be careful when using the term ‘social dumping’, because let me remind you that the conflict in Risavika port is about two different trade unions in the same system, namely the LO system. Those who work at Risavika port today are members of Industry Energy. They're Norwegians, they're working on a fixed salary, they're all clear. All that is conflict is not necessarily social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e728	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-01-09.ana.ud1759e741	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
