ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e26	From Højres groningensgruppe there is an application for sick leave from the representative Stefan Heggelund from 21 May until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Frode Helgerud, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget on 21 and 22 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: Afghan Rafiq 21 and 22 May Frode Helgerud from 23 May until further notice
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e53	Afshan Rafiq is present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e58	I have the honour, on behalf of André N. Skkelstad, Ola Elvestuen and myself, to promote a proposal for a representative to establish a common ticketing system for public transport throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e63	The representative, Mr S. Tuskedal, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e66	On behalf of the representatives of Rigmor Andersen Eide, Line Henriette Hämdal, Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I would like to make a representative proposal on an environmentally friendly housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e71	The representative, Fredric Holen Bjørdal, will also put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e74	On behalf of the representatives of Dag Terje Andersen, Anette Trettebergstuen, Lise Christoffersen and myself, I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on a strategy for better work opportunities for people with reduced working capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e79	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e91	On Monday the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Jan Tore Sanner, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e98	In the period up to 2005, many children were in kindergarten queues. After 2005, the Stoltenberg government took action which allowed the vast majority of children to have kindergartens. The first child care minister, Røe Isaksen, when he entered the government offices, was to cut an allocation of 2,900 new kindergartens, which would give children over one year of age who otherwise did not have the right to do so, the opportunity to have nursery facilities. What the other minister did was cut down 4,100 old nursery places because the parents were going to receive cash support. Now KS figures show that parents choose kindergarten and not cash support. KS expects 500 more applicants, not 4100 fewer applicants. Our committee is constantly looking at press releases and getting letters from desperate municipal politicians asking how to get things connected. The last letter we received was from the municipality of Bergen. The municipality of Bergen got a cut on the other side of 18 million. kr in year. In violation of what the government expected, the number of applicants has increased. There are 65 more children applying for jobs in Bergen this year than last year. City councillor Harald Victor Hove says, "We're not going to cut in the kindergarten sector, but it's going to reduce our working space as a municipality if we don't get this compensated." Many municipal politicians put their trust in the revised national budget. There was nothing there. I refer to what City Councillor Harald Victor Hove said to Bergen’s Official Journal: ‘That’s not what we meant by ‘new ideas, better solutions’.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e113	Let me first say that the growth in the number of children in kindergarten started in the period 2001–2005. This is also evident in the statistics on kindergartens. Point two: This is a matter that has come up with questions about several times in Stortinget. I would like to repeat what I have said in the past, that it is always the case that when you create a budget for the following year, you make an estimate of how different policy changes will turn out. Then we see that the calculation we calculated – which was the same way of calculating what the red-greens had in 2012, e.g., when the municipalities were overcompensated – probably gave what is called too much demand effect. This means that it is likely that a few more people are applying for nursery facilities, while a few are applying for cash support. Finally, we get fasitism only when the final numbers are in August, but it might look like that. This is why the government in the revised budget has announced that we will go through the entire calculation from 2012 to 2014 in close dialogue with the municipalities as well, just to see how we can make future calculations that are better and more accurate than today. Then the main question to the representative is: What are the consequences of this in the municipalities? I am a little surprised that a representative presents it as if the government is directly directing the budget appropriations for kindergarten policy. What you're doing is giving the municipalities a framework allocation based on calculations, but it's the municipalities that decide for themselves – which is what the Bergen City Council points out very correctly. This means that there is also a room in the municipalities to prioritise, and many municipalities continue to give priority to kindergartens and kindergartens. I'm glad. So it's important to also include that the rules for who has the right to place are completely unchanged. There is no freedom of choice for municipalities. Those who have the right place, of course, have the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e122	It is true that this case has been discussed in this room quite many times, and I have heard the Council of State repeat many times that they have used the same calculation as the Stoltenberg government did when making changes to the cash support in 2012. But what the Red Isaac did not mention was that the Stoltenberg government came back into the revised national budget and corrected what turned out to be wrong when it came to demand effect. I don't think any parents out there, who would have expected the nursery to come and get it funded, are very concerned if the demand effect in 2012 wasn't entirely correct. So I just have to repeat my question to the Red Isaac. In view of the parents and the local politicians who sit there now, what is the answer – either to those who sit there with a limited childcare facility because the municipalities don't get money to run like before, or to the municipalities that have to cut into other measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e129	The answer is the answer I gave. That is important, the year the representative mentions, namely 2012. Then the municipalities were overcompensated. They got more money than they were supposed to have; it turned out that the municipalities put back more money then. That's why it's quite natural to see this in context. If you get 20,000 in salary, or too much in pay one year, and 15 000 too little in pay the following year, it's natural that you see the two years in context. That's what the government has also told us to do, to make sure that we get a different method of calculation from that of the red-greens – a more accurate method of calculation. Then I also have ambitions to bet on both quality and accessibility to kindergarten. It's an important priority for this government that we're also going to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e136	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Marianne Aasen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e139	The Council of State says, as is quite correct, that it is the municipalities themselves who decide how to prioritize, that there is a certain room for action in the comm economy. But what we know after getting acquainted with the municipal economy for next year is that there is no real increase in free income that can cover all the expenditure that municipalities have. It points to efficiency, which sounds bad with quality, which the government embellishes itself with look and often. Those who work as municipal politicians around the country know that this priority is quite demanding. You can prioritize kindergartens, but then it often goes beyond something else. There are two major sectors in which there is an easy impact: care for the elderly, and it is school. As a education policy, many people experience this as a very demanding issue. What I'm wondering about is where the minister of knowledge was when the municipal proposition was dealt with – considering quality development in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e148	Without leaking from the government's internal life, I can reveal that the minister of knowledge was both present and seated at the table, and believes that the arrangement is fully sound and ensures the local authorities' ability to create quality in school. The government has announced that in 2015 there will be a growth in free revenues of up to 4.25 billion. kr. In addition, the great grips of this government have just been about strengthening government efforts to increase school quality, for example. through further training of teachers — because we know that very many teachers lack depression in the subject in which they are going to teach. For example: math, there's a clear link between the teacher's depression and the pupils' results. This government is doing something about it. We put in money that was not there before, to get a further education promise. We have said that we need to have a new real-life strategy for the school and come back with several quality-raising measures at school – where the state spends money and makes an effort, and which the municipality can also follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e157	The President will stress that it is important to stick to the main issue. Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e162	I have brought with me the Council of State and signed the County Newspaper Varden. In today's edition, there is a big issue about kindergarten uprisings in the municipality of Skien. The government expected 51 fewer kindergartens in Skien to be needed. Now it turns out that all the places are filled up. For the current year, smaller transfers mean a cut of 3.7 million. NOK 8 million for the next year. kr only for the municipality of Skien. The minister has talked a lot about quality also in kindergarten. It's clear that such cuts like this will also go beyond quality. It can go beyond the standard of staffing, and there may be more children and fewer kindergarten teachers. How does this relate to the minister of knowledge's desire to increase the quality of kindergarten? Is this what quality-enhancing is?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e172	The calculation of the effect of cash support comes as a result of the collapse agreement on the budget – just so we are clear, even though of course it is the government that delivers the calculations. Now, Skien is not my home municipality, it's the neighbouring municipality. I will not go into and comment in detail on the budgetary situation in the Ski. But it is interesting what also appears in the article in telemarksaviase, that since 2009 the municipality of Skien has – then another government has been sitting – cut 97 million. kr in the crop sector. Although I fully understand the concerns of the politicians in Skien, I would say that it is not the last change in the framework that makes the growth sector in Skien potentially have major challenges. In the case of Skien, this is a need that has built up over several years. But we've said that we're going to review the calculations from 2012 to 2014 to ensure that we get better computations that make in the future. It will also apply to Skien.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e181	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e184	There was a great deal of hope for many parents when the government stopped the introduction of two babysittings this year. When it also appears that the estimates for places are not correct, it is strange that a government that would otherwise like to introduce measures when calculators are short, does not take responsibility and corrects errors in the revised national budget. And even more strange -- the least one could expect was that one took the height of it in the communiqué proposition. I don't think the local politicians around the country are impressed that one should go through the calculation system when they're going to put their budgets in the fall. One now leaves responsibility to local politicians. My question is: Can the Council of State guarantee – now I would like to have specific answers – that the right to children's playground is fulfilled without the need for municipalities to reduce the number of children's home and school facilities in the municipality of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e193	I can probably guarantee that the right to children's playground, as the legislation is today, will be fulfilled. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to fulfil that right. There's no swirling for the municipalities. But it is for any municipality that they make their budgets available within the framework they receive from the State. I understand that no one is impressed by what we presented in the revised budget, but the goal is to clean this up in a proper, proper and responsible way. Then I think the most neat thing is to see the calculations over several years in the context. Then it's a relevant point to say that based on the same calculation method as the red-green ones used, and as we've also used, the municipalities probably got more in 2012. They may have – it looks like – got a little less in 2014. When you see this in context, it is possible to find better estimation methods and to have a good dialogue with municipalities on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e200	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e203	Governments have to stop talking about computational models he's going to change next year and start explaining what he's going to do with the kindergarten queue that exists this year. Then I want to go back to Bergen for a moment and quote from Bergen's Official Journal on 14 May: "The honest thing would have been that the government gave back the babysitting money they cut," we could read there. I'm not the one who said that, it was Harald Victor Hove, the Right Kindergarten Bureau in Bergen. There you now wear a cut of 17.6 million. kr, the money that was missing because this government cut massively in the kindergarten budgets. Harald Victor Hove goes on to say: ‘We cannot live with this cut.’ Corresponding policies next year will provide a cut of 45 million. kr. Then the council says that it is not certain that Bergen will be able to comply with the kindergarten guarantee. What is it the City Council has not realized when he believes the government's policy is not fair? What will the Council of State do to prevent the country's second largest city from fulfilling the pediatric guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e217	I don't think I'm going to move into speculations about what the town council in Bergen has understood and not understood. I am absolutely sure that he has a very good overview of both the government's policies, which he also boasts of several places in many of the articles to which it is referred, and of the policies of the municipality of Bergen. The starting point is that this is a change in the municipal framework. It is not a cut by Stortinget in the nursery sector, but it is of course that every municipality has to deal with the means they have received, in the way they think makes sense. Then it's Bergen's job to handle it. I repeat what I've said, that the right to babysitting that applies applies to everyone, of course. What you're talking about in Bergen is their own Bergens right that they've introduced. It has to be up to the Bergens politicians to figure out how to solve it. Both with the increase in free resources within 2014, which is announced in 2015, and with the financial arrangement the government has outlined, I think this should be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e224	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e227	I thought we'd take the step from the kindergartens to the smallest schoolchildren. A few weeks ago, we could read about Oddvar Nergård. He's a principal at a school in the municipality of Stjørdal in the North Trøndelag. He has been thinking for several years that the school has been given too little resources to be able to provide students with an offer that is in accordance with the Training Act. He has claimed that the school has operated on the edge of the law ever since the class division was removed from the law in 2003, and that this has particularly affected the first-class children. According to this Vice-Chancellor, even if the classification division was removed in 2003, this should still serve as a minimum standard for the allocation of resources in the school. If the principal is correct in his interpretation of the law, that would mean that a 1st class cannot have more than 18 students without the addition of additional teaching resources, and that in the 2nd class to the 7th grade there cannot be more than 28 students without the addition of an additional teacher to the classroom. Oddvar Nergård encountered opposition in his own municipality, but he took the matter further to the Education Directorate. When the answer came, he received full support. It was such that when the Storting decided to remove the classification number in 2003, the majority was at the same time quite clear that this should not be used as a saving measure and that the classification number should be used as a minimum level of resource allocation, even after the removal of the classification rule. The case from Stjørdal shows that the awareness of this is not good enough in all municipalities. This may result in many children receiving a school offer that is not in accordance with the Training Act. My question is whether the Council of State agrees that the old classifications should still be based on a minimum standard, and how he will ensure that they are complied with in Norwegian schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e238	I do not know the very specific matter, or the very specific principal that the representative asks about. But I fully agree with the drafting of the case, as the representative has come with it. There was a majority of them. The Bondevik II parts, together with SV – if I do not remember completely wrong – that decided that you should not have the classification rules as they were. The reason was that you wanted to open up to more flexible use of large and small groups and that kind of thing, but then it wouldn't go beyond resources, so you couldn't use it as a saving measure. It also appears that the Vice-Chancellor has done the right thing, namely to contact the Education Directorate, which has both an overview of the legislation and can provide clear answers as to whether this is in line with the legislation or not. I cannot say on the stand how the Education Directorate continuously controls this – I have to come back to the representative, if necessary, with a clear response. But what I can be quite clear about is that the legislation – as it is described – applies, and it has to be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e245	I would like to thank you for your answer. I believe that this case from the municipality of Stjørdal shows that there is a need for a clearer regulation. I do not believe that the administrative staff and political leadership in Stjørdal are the only ones who are uncertain, or little aware, that this legislation is still in force. Then I believe that there is good reason to fear that many teachers are responsible for more students than they should have, according to the Training Act. My question will then be whether the Council of State shares the view that there is a need for clarification in the law, and whether it would be reasonable to re-place a national standard of manning in the Training Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e253	The answer to the last sub-question is that it is not government policy. We want to provide the education sector with more resources, focus on quality, further training, several of the measures that we have already begun to build up. But we have not said that we want a national standard, as the representative wants. So to the question of whether that means that a clearer code is needed. Then I must almost allow myself to say, "That may happen." If it is the case that municipalities perceive the legislation as unclear, if it is the case that there is a great deal of uncertainty and a very large number of municipalities that break the legislation, then the challenge may be in the legislation. I often think that the challenge may not necessarily be in the legislation, but in the follow-up to it, and it is important to remember that it is the school owner – i.e. the municipalities – who has a responsibility to follow the national frameworks for the organisation of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e262	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir S. Tuskedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e265	Organizing the school day, getting the teacher's class to go up, for a principal or a management, is a very demanding task. Then, class division is one of the main factors to achieve this, as well as knowledge of the classes and students – where early efforts are needed, where special educational measures are needed, etc. Especially in 1st and 2nd classes are e.g. standing in front of 28 six-year-olds is a very demanding situation – it requires a situation change, a thought-out methodology minute by minute, etc. My question is about early action. We know that we're focusing on increasing teacher training and teacher density, but does the Council of State think that early efforts are something that should be reflected in the standard of personnel so that we get a clearer clarification of the class division especially at low class steps?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e272	I have no plans to change the legislation that is currently in force in this respect. But I think it's worth drawing up some very good examples of municipalities that have managed to think: how do we prioritize our resources to get to the crucial start of the very smallest children who start school? An example that has also been found in the Stortinget in the past is the Dovre municipality, which decided to go through its special education critically and managed to get its use down, got more students into ordinary classrooms and spent the extra resources just to strengthen teaching staff. I also believe, since I know a certain scepticism about the abolition of the classrooms – which I believe Christian People's Party in its time was in – that there has been a very good grip for the school, because it allows you to organize the teaching, for example. with more teachers in teams, you can have more flexibility in large and small groups, and it also gives room to follow up the individual students closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e279	Marianne Aasen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e282	I think it is positive that the Council of State signals that he will look at the code of classification if it is more than the municipality of Stjørdal that is struggling with the kind of regulations. Unfortunately, there is a classic example that if there is too much detail management, there can soon be more bureaucracy, there can be a lot of dialogue between municipalities, the Education Directorate and the Department, etc., and that is what we want as much as possible. I'm sure we'll agree that we're here. Nevertheless, my impression is that most municipal politicians and municipalities are very busy with the smallest students, they are busy securing good teaching resources, competent teachers, for that group in particular. Early effort has been fixed once and for all. But what we also know, both municipal politicians and we who sit here, is that you have to have a good municipal economy at the bottom. Then I would like to repeat my question, or a variant of it: Is the Council of State satisfied, as the municipal economy has been set up by the government, in view of the future in Norwegian school? Can we make sure no teachers are cancelled?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e291	I just want to say first that I think it's a general point, and that's for the whole government, that you should always have an eye for how the law works out in the real world. That means that if there's any feedback that legislation doesn't work, or that they don't have the effect that's wanted, I think it's very strange to sit on top of the system and say that we don't care about this. Then, of course, you have to look at whether that is true, and whether there are better solutions. That, I believe, is a continuous process that we, as politicians, are responsible for keeping going. So to the community economics plan: I believe that the municipal economics plan that has been outlined is fully sound, and fully capable of caring for the needs of municipalities in order to build quality in the school. And then we have to remember that on top of that, the new government's bets are on important quality measures, such as: continuing training of teachers, which was not already there. And, among others, by increasing the rate of continuing training provided by the State, there is also the possibility for municipalities to obtain more quality for the same amount of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e298	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e301	The Swedish colleague of the Minister of Knowledge was appointed budget winner in March when the spring budget was presented. A central suggestion in the so-called Low-Level Lift is a reduction in class size, and the reason from the Moderates is that each teacher will then have more time for each individual student, and the students will notice that they will have more time for their teacher. For quality, on which the Council of State is concerned, time is also required between teacher and student. Norwegian teachers are now in favour of continuing training, on which the Council of State was involved. But when they're asked what's most important to do the job, it's wanted for just more time for every student in school. Quality should mean that teachers have time. Could it be relevant for the Council of State to take a closer look at the Swedish proposals and also learn from its Swedish colleague in this area on the issue of teacher density?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e308	It is good to see that in Sweden you can also bet on school, even if you give tax credits. It shows that it's completely possible to have that combination. This government has taken over 600 extra state-funded teaching positions that the red-green government gave. It was the Red-Green government platform for many years that you should have increased teacher's density in school. That number didn't move at all. Then there were 600 extra posts, distributed to certain schools. We have chosen to keep these jobs. There has been a tiny increase in teacher density, and municipalities can give priority to this. After this project is completed and the municipalities take responsibility, I think we should go in and see if this led to better results. However, initially, the major efforts of this government are continuing education and training, real-time vocational education and training. That is what we have prioritised, rather than a system of state-funded teaching positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e317	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e321	One prerequisite for being able to talk about satisfactory teacher density is that we have plenty of teachers available. As the Council of State knows very well, the SSB has estimated that we will lack 11,000 annual jobs in Norwegian school in 2020. We already have 9 000 so-called unskilled or unqualified teachers who work at school, we have a reserve of teachers who are not in school today, at approx. 37 000, and we have a training to become a teacher there about. One third – every three students – quit before finishing their studies. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State see to it that we are going to do to ensure that we have a satisfactory number of teachers in school in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e328	We're going to make it more attractive to learn. How do you do that? When you ask your youth what they are most concerned about when choosing a profession, pay is one of the answers. The government has no control over this. That's what you're talking about right now. But there are two other things that are important, that we can do something about, and that's how exciting and challenging the job is. For many years we have had a school where there are many places where there are few opportunities to fill up the profession for teachers, and where there are few career paths. That you have high entry requirements to get into the teacher’s study – the teacher’s study is not something you should be able to easily get into, as it is among the most important jobs we have to learn the generations of the future – while creating a school that is learning, with a strong professional community, where you have the opportunity to develop a career without going out of the classroom and over to administration, and where you get professionally filled up – that’s what I think is a key. Then we all have to be involved in talking about how important it is to be a teacher. In addition, we have to do something about the increased bureaucracy that came in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e337	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e340	I am pleased to be surprised that the minister wants to continue the 600 teaching positions introduced by the red-green government, with Kristin Halvorsen at the head. These are new paces and create peace in the insecurity that has been in very many schools around. This is a system that will last for four years, and that will go to the schools that wear the most. About 170 youth schools were reached with this system. For SV's part, this was part of the development of a minimum standard for the number of teachers. We're going to have some experience with the 600 extra teachers in school. Since this is a project that Erna Solberg in the election campaign intended to cut, because she did not want more teachers, but better teachers, my question – when one has now done a revolution – is to the Council of State: Will this scheme be passed on after these four years, and will it be expanded?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e349	Firstly, the representative quotes the Prime Minister incorrectly. She never said that this should be cut, but she said that the most important thing for school learning is that you have good, motivated teachers. It's the most important thing. That's the same thing that SV's former leader, Erik Solheim, tweeted a few months ago, namely that increasing quality, making good teachers even better, is the most important investment we can make. It should not come as a surprise, all the time when the 2014 budget has been presented, that these 600 posts are in there. Then, of course, it will be assessed in the budgets in the future. In principle, we have now said that these positions will continue, but we must draw lessons from it, of course. But again, the main efforts of this government are career paths in school, real-time unemployment, continuing education and training, making the teaching profession more attractive and also starting to clean up the bureaucracy that has come to school, especially in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e358	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e361	My question is to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. When, on behalf of the government, the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation announced on 13 March this year a change in the differentiated employer’s fees, this meant a dramatic message for a very large number of enterprises in District Norway. Transport, energy, finance and insurance companies are at risk of a tax call of up to 1 billion. kr, to use the government's own numbers. The former right-wing representative Ivar Kristiansen, now Director of the Northern NHO Region, expressed particular concern about the transport industry in the county, which is already exposed to extreme competition from foreign carriers. Progress Party politician Jan Blomseth from Tromsø was even clearer when he concluded that this ‘deaths of the transport industry in the north’. Governments promised that the concrete design of the new scheme would be in the revised national budget. It hasn't happened, which means that many companies in the north still live in uncertainty about whether they want 0 pst. or 14 pst. the levy on its compensation of employees as from 1 July of this year. But what gives even greater cause for concern is that it is not clear which compensation will be paid to the companies that meet the tax ruling from 1 July. The Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, decided on the presentation of the revised national budget that the companies concerned should not be compensated for in crowns. It is in stark contrast to the statements made by the Council of State Sanner to the NRK on 13 March of this year, in which he confirmed on direct questions that such compensation will be given in crowns. Can the Minister of State confirm his previous statements that the companies concerned are to be compensated for crowns, or has the government in this area run away from its previous statements and promises?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e379	Before I get to grips with the inaccuracies of the representative, I want to start with what we agree on, namely that the system of differentiated employer fees is the best form of regional policy we have, and that it is important that we keep that system. It facilitates Norwegian holdings of about 13 billion. kr. Alternative governments have fought for that scheme because it is unbureaucratic and because it is good. Now the scheme expires on 1 July. That means we have to put in place a new system. The EU established the guidelines for a differentiated employer’s fee on 19 June last year, which means under the red-green government. It might have been interesting to know which governments in the red-green government were in Brussels to discuss this matter with the European Commission and to influence in the phase that it was possible to influence. As we have understood, there were no red-green politicians in Brussels to influence the European Commission in this matter. However, we have been committed to dialogue until the final decisions are taken, in order to obtain the best possible solution for Norway. We have consistently maintained that the increased tax revenue resulting from the introduction of the sector exemptions should be returned to the regions. It's established by the government. It is then that the European Commission and ESA continue to work on legislative adaptation. The EU Minister, Mr Vidar Helgesen, has been in Brussels and has had good contact with the Commission to try to influence. I have raised the matter myself in the Ministerial Council meeting in Greece a short time ago. We are concerned about compensating, but we are also concerned about getting the best possible solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e390	I thank you for the answer, which really didn't answer the way you've been going to compensate the businesses, the sectors and the businesses that are going to be affected by this change. That answer is also not provided in the revised national budget. So it's open even after what the Council of State said. He used the time to say a little bit different things in the answer than just to answer the question. However, the government has determined that the transport sector is one of the industries that will no longer receive a lower employer’s fee. There, the NHO has acquired legal competence, which concludes with the exact opposite, that the content of the regional aid rules in the EU does not necessarily require the restriction imposed by the government on transport. Can the Council of State tell us more about that? This will be of great importance, inter alia: for Hurtigruten, Onøe and large and small transport companies throughout the District of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e397	Interestingly, the Central Party, which has been in government for eight years and which has been in government when the European Commission established these rules, is trying to have such a high profile in this case. The centre party had the opportunity to influence the European Commission before the decision was taken by the European Commission. It was chosen not to do so, except for some of the messages that were sent. The sector exemptions were determined before the summer of last year. We are now working to ensure that these sector exceptions are as narrow as possible, so that we help our companies as much as possible. We have announced that we will ensure that the increased revenue will be used for compensatory measures, and then we have pointed to de minimis aid, the net pay system for seafarers, the purchase of transport services, infrastructure in the areas concerned. As soon as we get the ESA clarifications, we will get to Stortinget – before the summer – so that we get the differentiated employer fee scheme in place, and so that we get compensatory measures in place for Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e408	It opens up for follow-up questions – first Heidi Greni.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e412	Since their takeover, the government has implemented a number of changes in regional policy instruments. We have just been informed by the conversion of a differentiated employer’s fee and the lack of compensation for its effects. In the government budget for 2014, the government cut approx. $30 billion in regional development funds and several other regional policy initiatives. In the municipal bill, presented last week, the government proposes new cost keys for the county councils, which will have dramatic effects on several district councils. Worst way out is Sogn and Fjordane, who lose 250 million. kr, i.e. whole 10 pst. of the State’s budgetary resources. At the same time, the government claims that it will pursue a policy that will ensure settlement throughout the country. Has the government made an overall assessment of the impact of regional policy on the large cuts that have been or have been proposed in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e419	Since Mr Greni is so concerned, I would like to say a good news, namely that North Norway is the region with the highest value creation in the country. It shows that things are going well; there's good growth in North Norway, there's good speed in business. We are committed to facilitating Norwegian businesses, both in central and district Norway. Then, of course, we must have good regional policy instruments, but we must also have good framework conditions, and I am pleased that things are going well in North Norway. The tools we get in place are going to boost growth. With regard to the income system for county municipalities, I would like to remind you that that system is more than 20 years old. The system was already out of date in 2005. The red-green government announced in 2007, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 that it would do something about it. You didn't do it. State policies have been well prepared for this change to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e426	Eirik Sivertsen - for the next question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e429	I note that the Council of State does not have an overview of what red-green state councils were in Brussels at the time, and what they did there, so I think it might be a little daring to conclude that the red-green government did nothing to ensure that Norwegian positions were passed on to the regionally differentiated employer fee. At the beginning of February, or early in winter, we were told that there was no room for action at all, for this had been decided by the EU. We were then informed on 17 March that there was still a significant room for action. Then the government had obviously started working on the matter and discovered that there was still a room for action. So when the Council of State describes this shuttle traffic and this active government effort to influence the EU in Brussels, can the Council of State say anything about getting through? Or are these just symbolic travels to make it seem like you're doing something?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e436	The government is committed to having good dialogue with the EU, with the EU Commission and with EU ministers from different countries. Unlike the previous government, we give priority to attending EU ministerial meetings, just to influence, and I took this up myself when I was at the ministerial meeting in Greece for a short time. The reality is that these sector exemptions were adopted by the European Commission last spring. There's not much we can do about it. But what we can do is try to get the device of these sector exemptions so good, or so limited, that it affects Norwegian companies as much as possible. There we work systematically, right up to the finish line, to get this as well as possible, and then I might have expected that the Workers' Party also supported the government in that work. We are committed to finding good solutions for Norwegian businesses, and we are committed to compensating for the regions that are losing because of the sector exemptions adopted last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e443	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e446	We are very happy in the Christian People's Party that the government is travelling and speaking our case – and ‘safer our future’, you might be able to add, which was a right-wing slogan once. But what matters to businesses is the end result – I'm not so much concerned with the story that goes back and forth between the former questioners and the Council of State. We had a hearing in the finance committee yesterday, and there's no doubt that if you get a 14-pst endorsement. from 1 July, it affects business from day one – and many operate on the margin. So many people are probably wondering, and it's going to be my challenge to the government council: when it's talking about compensation heads for heads, what level are you talking about? Are you down at the farm level, or are you at the macro level? Can the Council of State give clarity to that very question, which the very many are concerned with?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e453	We're also concerned with the final result. That's what's crucial, and that's why we're now working along two lines: we're trying to influence as best we can, both to the European Commission and to ESA, but we're also working on compensation when the sector exceptions hit. We agree that this is unfortunate, and that's why we work so much on it. We have received good input from our deposit representatives – the representatives of the government parties in North Norway. They have done a very good job and listened to business, and business itself has made a lot of contributions to us. It is clear that compensation must also be within the framework of the EU State aid guidelines, and therefore our approach is that the increased revenue should be used for compensatory measures. I have then pointed out four measures: de minimis aid, net pay arrangements for seafarers, purchase of transport services and infrastructure measures in the areas concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e462	Ketil Kjeseth - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e465	One of the likely conclusions of the new regime for a differentiated employer’s fee is that there is no longer any differentiation in the employer’s contribution for the transport sector. It's a change that affects many travel businesses in my state, Oppland, and these are companies that are already struggling to make ends meet. Governments have announced that compensatory measures will be put in place and that there will be a case for the Storting soon. However, I would like the Council of State to lighten up a little bit on the veil and give an example of what compensatory measures he sees as being applicable to transport companies in those parts of Uppland which have today reduced the employer's fee and which will not apply to similar transport companies in other parts of the country that currently pay full employers' fees?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e472	Let me first say that we should all be glad that we have got 31 new municipalities into the different employer's fee scheme. The fact that we keep the system of a differentiated employer's fee is good. 31 new municipalities are there, and a lot of them are inland, because they've seen some of the effects of the two-way division of the economy. Now they're inside, and then they get better arrangements. There is also an opportunity to provide transport aid, but the evaluation of the transport aid previously granted in Norway showed that it was not very good. It is believed that there are other measures that can work better. What goes under so-called de minimis aid is aid that can be granted directly to enterprises, within the rules set by the EU. However, infrastructure measures will also benefit both the transport industry and the entire economy. We have to make sure that we have the best possible alignment on this. We're listening to the companies. We listen to Stortinget, and Stortinget gets the case processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e482	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e485	The discussion about who did what when is pure acting from the government's side. It is obvious that this happened in February. It seems that if you only create a hyphenation, you can play a little bit with the truth. The growth in North Norway occurred before the blue government took over. In the meantime, this government has cut its regional budget. One has recently come with a municipal proposition that, according to Ivar B. Prestbakmo in Troms County, will be able to frustrate public traffic in the county. It is a tax scheme that greatly benefits large, tax-rich municipalities in the south. So there's a provocation like chess-OL, permitting rules, etc. Erna Solberg said in a question hour in March that this will be returned heads for heads. My question to the Minister is simply: Is this a view shared by the Minister of Local Affairs?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e500	Now I have answered that question four times, and the answer is the same: increased revenues are to be used for compensatory measures. I notice that SV is most concerned with transfers and grants. I'm most concerned about business growth. When we see that North Norway has higher growth in value creation than the rest of the country, it's a sign that it's going well, and then we have to make sure that we stimulate that growth further. I agree with the representative that a debate on who did what is not particularly interesting, but we must be willing to learn. That's the lesson I'm after, and the lesson is that if you're going to affect the EU, you have to influence the EU before the EU makes the decisions. That's what we're concerned about. We are committed to intervening with the EU, as far as we can as we can abroad, before the EU takes the decisions. Once they have made the decisions, we must also try to influence to get rules that are as good as possible. We're in that phase now. We're trying to get the best possible solution for Norwegian companies and for Norway, and I honestly expected that the opposition would also support us in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e513	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e516	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Our current Prime Minister has been very clear on the need to invest in research, innovation and knowledge. It is knowledge that is the oil of the future for Norway that the Prime Minister uses to say. We in the Left fully agree with that. On 4 September 2013, in the poll of the election campaign, Høre’s current research policy spokeswoman Kristin Vinje wrote the following in an article in the Newspaper: ‘We have a unique opportunity to invest systematically and specifically in knowledge to ensure value creation and future well-being — an opportunity for the red-green government to slip away’. She also wrote: ‘Let there be no doubt; the right has high ambitions for the knowledge nation of Norway.’ These are also words that the Left can stand behind, but it does not benefit with high ambitions if they are not followed up with action. Although there were some additions in the research field in the budget process last autumn, the Left really had to fight to get more scholarship positions in place. In the revised budget, which was presented a week ago, there is hardly anything that helps to strengthen innovation, research efforts or our universities and colleges. In the revised budget, which has been presented, there are two things that may stand out in particular. It's that people are now going to be able to buy more cheap alcohol at the tax-free store, and that boat engines are getting cheaper. My questions are therefore: When will the high ambitions of the Right for Norway as a knowledge nation materialise in concrete policy? When will the headings of the submitted budget be «combating research and education»? Where is the executive that one was promised in the campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e541	Item No 1: I think it was well written by Kristin Vinje. Item No 2: I was not present when the Stortinget negotiated the budget, but I doubt that there would be more scholarship holders, it was the most important thing in the government parties. In that case some leaks from those negotiations. Item No 3: It was a budgetary settlement that made a good budget even better in the field of research and education, among other things. by the presence of several scholarship holders, as the representative says. I fully agree that there is a need to strengthen research efforts. There is a need for money, but there is also a need for changes in the way we organize it – not that changes are needed in the Research Council, but to say it very simply: this increase has been totally unanimous and almost joyfully said that we are going to spend a lot of money on participating in the European Framework Programme Horizon 2020. We're not going to get enough of that. In addition to the strengthening of the research effort we need here at home, we simply have to pick up the money we have paid into a common fund in Europe, and then we need Norwegian researchers and institutions that are on-going and who are working for applications. We also need a government and a large number of people pushing. Finally, I do not have a boat, so I will not comment on this with boat engines. I occasionally trade on duty-free and it sounds like a good arrangement. But I think it is a general principle that a revised budget is not a completely new state budget. From the Ministry of Knowledge there was an increase of 50 million. SEK to 500 additional further training places for teachers, which was because the search was even higher than we could expect. We had strengthened this post, and then we strengthened it a little bit. I believe that it is primarily the kind of thing that has to be revised for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e554	I thank you for your answer. I also believe that it is good and good to bet on the further and subsequent training of teachers. It's a very good and important hold, but even though the government council is happy with cheap wine bottles at the tax-free store, I'm absolutely sure he agrees that it's infinitely much more important to bet on research and innovation. I interpret his answer there that at least he won't oppose it if the Left tries to push something more into the field of research in the revised. With regard to the Free Programme Support of the Research Council, it has grown by 20 pst. in the number of applications last year. I've seen numbers that are more than 90 pst. of which no funding is provided, and this includes a number of projects that have received excellent assessments. This means that a lot of high-quality research is not being carried out. Shouldn't the Council of State take hold of this and show this power of implementation, so that even more people get produced even more excellent research by our institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e565	The answer to that is yes, and I intend to do so. It is quite right that under the FRIPRO programme for the Norwegian Research Council, there are very many projects that get the highest quality – if you can call it that – but that do not get yes. I don't want everyone to get a yes. This should be a strict quality sieving application, and there are many applicants. But that's a very good reason to strengthen the FRIPRO programme. I fully agree with the representative here.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e570	There will be follow-up questions - Ketil Kjeseth
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e573	Initially, I would just like to tip the Council of State that the University of Gjøvik is the best in the class to get out research funds. An essential prerequisite for increased value creation is innovation and research, and not least the commercialisation and retailing of more research efforts. We're going to spend about 8 billion dollars. kr annually in Norway for research in the field of health. Very little of the research related to health becomes value-creating enterprises. This is due, inter alia, to: that health innovation, development and commercialisation of medicinal products and medical technologies are underfunded and that there are specific challenges with very long development and testing phases. There is great uncertainty and a small domestic market. At the same time, this is an area of great global potential. The left has a proposal for a health mosquito regime under consideration in Stortinget. There is, in short, a tax incentive scheme that is intended to contribute to getting more of health research into value-creating activities. Is this something that the Council of State supports, or does the Council of State have other, new ideas and better solutions, which make more of the research we do in the field of health turn into value-creating activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e586	The size should be dealt with in the usual way, and of course there will also be an opinion from the Department, but there are two important things that the representative puts his finger on. One is that coordination between departmental research efforts in general is too weak and too poor, and although many departments have good intentions, it means that the sum of our research efforts is too often earmarked instead of being used more freely — to put it that way. The second is that I believe that the key here lies in the cooperation between health companies and the university and higher education communities, and we need to look at how research works between them, how important health care is used, and how they are distributed between health companies and universities.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e592	Marit Arnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e595	This government has gone very high in knowledge, research and innovation. It was kind of some of the very foundation of the entire government that they were going to bet on it. And when one goes so high, a seasman also creates great expectations at universities, the higher education sector, the institute sector, the business community and at the Research Council and those who run different research programmes. Then one can't really afford to skip the budget, whether it's called the ordinary budget or the revised budget. Because it can't be that every time the government chooses not to give priority, they say that there is only a revised budget, while at the same time they go out and market the things they choose to grant in the revised national budget, as big bets. One can't afford to skip. So it's going to reach more than 90 pst. of all applications for the FRIPRO programme are not supported – there are figures from the Swedish Research Association – there is too much that is not supported. Now, when the Council of State says that he is in favour of more people being supported, why can't he give money to it in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e602	I've answered this with the revision already, but in the budget we took over, the budget we've actually put forward in the supplementary proposal – take into account that I don't remember this number exactly on the crown – it's about 300 million. additional to research and innovation efforts and to a number of important programmes which we prioritised but which were not prioritised in the budget we took over. That means there was a change in pace with the 2014 budget. I know that expectations are high in the sector. That's also why, but I also want to remind you that one of the most important things we can do, in addition to the research we have here at home, is to give more of the efforts of both the state and the institutions in bringing home money from the program that costs billions of dollars, which a unanimous increase has decided that we should be on board. In addition to strengthening the research effort here at home, we also have to collect money from the common pot we have paid for.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e609	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e612	Still more research highlights the importance of good growth conditions for small children. One study showed that good childcare provision for the most vulnerable children has resulted in a reduction in drop-outs in school and a reduction in teenage crime, more than for those with lower quality childcare facilities. A good childhood lasts a lifetime – simply. Good kindergartens contribute to it. After Røe Isaksen took over as Minister of Kindergarten, the government has chosen to increase the cash support, increase the maximum price and reduce the number of kindergartens. KS believes this has caused the municipalities 825 million. kr in extra costs for kindergartens and think this could have consequences for the quality of kindergartens. At the same time as transfers to municipalities have been reduced, the government has found money for, among other things. tax cuts and reductions, e.g. on the centre-axle trailer. Clearly, the government does not give priority to kindergartens. On a question from Jens Stoltenberg in Question Time in December about the government's weakening of babysitting in the budget, Prime Minister Erna Solberg answers the following: ‘I am pleased that this government has made clear and clear priorities, including: with regard to children.’» Further: «This government prioritises investing in more knowledge in school [[...]] Is it also the view of the Minister of Knowledge that schools are more important than kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e631	Once again, I think the representative is a little free in his interpretation of the Prime Minister's statements. I believe that both school and kindergarten are important. It is important to say that the budgetary agreement that was, and the presentation to the government that came, has more money for the knowledge sector than the red-green budget proposal had. So if you just care about the money, it's more about the sector of this government than it was with the previous government. It's also quite right that if you, for example, looking at the studies following the trial of free core time in kindergartens in Oslo, it appears that in particular for minority children it is in kindergarten that it has an effect in itself. Kindergarten itself may be important for some children, but much indicates — in international studies at least — that the value of a good kindergarten is great for absolutely all children. Therefore, the biggest challenge for the kindergarten sector in Norway is that there are very large quality differences between kindergartens in the different municipalities, and there is something the government is doing about. Once again, if you're busy with money, we're spending more on this budget than we've ever done on the quality and content of kindergarten. It was also an area that we strengthened, compared to the budget proposal we received from the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e642	The council says you're doing something about it, but what you've already done is pretty hard cut in everything that's got to do with kindergartens. Barnhagans were, in fact, the very largest budget pair – next to the students – in the last year's budget. One would like to think that the knowledge sector is growing, because there are numbers that you can respond to. But there is no doubt that there has been a massive shift of money from kindergarten to school and elsewhere. And then we'll see what the fasit is after a few years when we see the full-year effect of this. The question is the same. The government is cutting massively in the way of the kindergartens, and we have statements from the Prime Minister that indicate that school is more important. Then again I would like to challenge the Minister for this: Is it the case that kindergartens will still be budget couples for the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e649	The big thing that hits the kindergarten figures is that we canceled the red-green plan for two shots. I think it's interesting that when you look at the hearing opinions that came into the wake of it, you see, first of all, that there's a very wide-ranging view of the actual organisation of it, i.e. whether two recordings and making a central, bureaucratic system on it are a good idea. But it's also interesting to look at what, for example, The Education Association says, which organizes many of those who are absolutely crucial in kindergarten, namely the employees: kindergarten teachers. They are very concerned because they see that this bet can be at the expense of exactly what the representative is asking for: the bet on quality and content. The quality and content of kindergarten are the most important and first priority of this government, and that is why it is also one of the areas that we have strengthened in the budget. There I am happy to admit that there was a good reinforcement from the red-green ones too. We took it, kept it and put it a little bit more on top, because quality and content are the most important thing. It becomes artificial for me to set school and kindergarten up against each other as the representative does.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e656	It opens for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e659	I hear that the Minister of Knowledge is trying to assure us that he is concerned about quality in kindergarten, but if one is going to read from the revised national budget, there is no doubt that the government is more concerned with small boat engines than with small people. It is true that the calculation that the Council of State has now set up — that is, the ten million dollars which were an increase for the kindergarten sector and in which SV agreed — is zeroed out very many times out of the 850 million. kr that the local government sector now reports that they are lacking in order to provide kindergartens and not least to maintain the quality that Røe Isaksen says he is busy. This involves both staffing in kindergartens and being able to follow up employees in kindergartens with the necessary skills, because it is also necessary. Why are the small boat engines worth 100 million? Do you really want to delete this item? Couldn't that money have been better spent in kindergarten?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e666	I will not go into the discussion about the boat engines. I would also like to say that when you have a fee that is expensive to charge, which affects completely arbitrarily, and which may also have a bad environmental impact, it may be reasonable to do something about the fee, which the government has done. That SV does not want it, is another matter. I believe that the quality resources we have on the kindergarten side are responding to the biggest challenge in the nursery sector – the representative was involved – that is the employees. In concrete terms, there are still very many kindergartens living under the derogation. In other words, as politicians, we have made a demand as to how many kindergarten teachers you should have. But then the municipalities and the individual kindergarten get a derogation, simply because there are not enough kindergarten teachers. We need 4,400 kindergarten teachers. These $170 million. kr, which is in the budget, is precisely there in order for more students to be able to take kindergarten teacher training, for managers to take continuing training and for us to be able to get more qualified people into the kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e674	Sonja Mangt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e677	Full babysitting has been a goal. Now we see that it can be a goal that cannot be achieved in the future. The right-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand-hand. kr less in transfers to There are announced stops in the construction of new sites. We could read that in Tønsberg Blade in December. 40 new places are not realised, and the Right Local Sorry. Parents who are now going out to work despair. What will the Council of State answer parents in Tønsberg and other municipalities that do not now have room because the government has cut transfers? For, as the Council of State says, a number of months now will be used to re-evaluate the basis for the calculation – seven months after the government took over. Is that what the government calls executive power, which we've heard so much about?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e682	First of all, I want to say that the right to kindergarten is valid. It's important to repeat, because I hear you're trying to so doubt it. The same right that applied under the red-green government is also valid now – it is important to establish. Secondly, this is not a cut in kindergartens. It is the municipality itself that prioritises its resources. Why have we got such a system, that the municipality itself prioritises within the framework they get from the state? Well, that's because the red-greens in 2011 went over to the framework funding of kindergartens. That just means that the municipalities don't get the direct eartag paid for kindergartens anymore, they get it in their frame. If you were engaged in a type of millimeter justice, you should not do that in 2011 when you went to a framework finance. But as I said, I think it might seem that the calculation does not work – that the demand effect is greater than we thought. So it's necessary to go through this, but then we have to see the last few years in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e687	We move on to the next main question – from Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e690	My question goes to the Minister of State. Last year's election was a choice between tax cuts and welfare. It's because politicians who grant billions of dollars in tax cuts, at the same time say they can spend the same money on kindergarten, school and old age care. The right has for a long time tried to create the impression that this relationship does not exist. They have even argued that tax cuts will strengthen the basis for well-being. Now we see that it still didn't vote. When demand for nursery places increases, municipalities are not paid for it. The bill, as we've heard here, is between 800 million. SEK and 900 million. kr. It was sent to the municipalities, with no money to pay for it. Only for the municipality of Bergen it means at least 45 million. kr in lost income. In addition, for the first time in many years there is a failure in the income tax of municipalities. Once again, for Bergen's sake, that means a 100-million-dollar failure. kr this year, according to Bergen's Official Journal. Last week, the government presented its first municipal bill. The fact that municipalities are growing between 4.2 billion. kr and 4,5 br. kr in free income, does not initially act as a deterrent. But when we know that municipalities are going to use this sum to cover bills for kindergartens, population growth, more elderly people, pensions, new government tasks and cost growth in child protection and special education, which together costs between 4.8 billion. kr and 5,5 brd. kr, there is reason to alarm, for the calculation goes into minus by up to 1 billion. kr. This means that the municipalities have to cut school and old age care, and the cuts can come as early as this year. What would the Minister of State say to the voters who believed in the assurances of the Right that billions of dollars could be given in tax cuts and at the same time strengthen the welfare of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e701	The voters see that we are doing what we said we should do, that is, facilitating growth and safe jobs. That is why we are lowering taxes, investing in infrastructure, knowledge and research. The voters see that we prioritise important welfare services for the inhabitants. And we're going to do that in the way we've done it. Interestingly, only six months after leaving the government offices, the Labour Party believes that any input from the local government sector is correct, while everything the government says is wrong. In fact, we're providing figures that show that, within the free incomes, we cover the costs of demographics and pensions. In addition, there is a free growth for municipalities of 1.3 billion. kr. For the current year, it was 950 million. kr. So the growth in the free income, what the municipalities have at their disposal, is going to be larger next year than it has been for the current year. This means that we have a robust structure, which means that municipalities have room to cover pensions, demography and to strengthen welfare services. But I also know very well that for the municipalities it will still be perceived as tight, just as it was when Liv Signe Navarsete was a municipal minister and in the previous years. Community policy must continue to be a priority. Local politicians still need to be more efficient in order to create greater room in their budgets. But the arrangement we have put forward means that the municipalities can cover the costs, while there is room to invest in important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e710	I record that I and the municipal minister have very different descriptions of reality. There's a very important difference between the proposition made by the Right Party and the Advance Party this year, and the one presented last year. Last year it was 1 billion. kr more in the municipal scheme. This year it's about 1 billion. kr less. In addition, there is a large unpaid childcare bill, and we have failing tax revenues in municipalities for the first time in many years. For many, this year's municipal economic proposition gives associations to Erna Solberg as Minister of State. This year, tax revenue fails at a point between 1.2 billion. NOK and maybe as much as 2 billion. kr. Although costs are also falling in municipalities, this gives great cause for concern, such as: does in Bergen, which loses 100 million. kr in income only this year. The government has not signaled any willingness to compensate for this. My question is, will there be any difference between Erna Solberg as Minister of State and Jan Tore Sanner as Minister of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e719	The answer to that question is yes – because we live in a different time. It's now 12 years since Erna Solberg became municipal minister. I am concerned to look forward and not backward. But there's something that's going to be stuck. It is that we must ensure predictability and good framework conditions for the municipalities. Like Solberg, I'm going to be concerned with honest and clear communication in the area of local economy. I'm not going to travel around saying that these are gold and green forests, because I know that my arrangement, like the red-green government's arrangement last year, is going to mean that municipal politicians must give priority. Yes, municipal politicians must also give priority to the next year – just as they did when the red-greens were in the government offices. It's also a point to go a little bit deeper into the numbers. It is true that tax revenue has fallen somewhat this year, but population growth has also fallen slightly below what was thought, so that income for municipalities in 2014 is about the same level as that proposed in the budget for the current year.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e728	Additional questions will be raised – first the representative Stein Erik Lauvås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e731	There are more people who are applying for kindergarten than the government had expected, and that does not compensate the government for the municipalities. Once again, according to KS figures, the municipality of Oslo gets a bill of 115 million. kr, Bergen municipality gets one at 44 million. Halden and Halden get one of nearly 5 million kroner. kr – which they did not expect, but which they now have to cover up. Although the Council of State later believes, or indicates, that the municipalities here can deliver in bags and bags, enough municipal and urban government representatives will see that this is not possible with the government's municipal structure. So what advice will the Minister give to the rapporteur in e.g. Holden? Should he deny children who have a statutory right to kindergarten, that place, or should it be cut into school and care services to balance the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e736	I trust that the rapporteur in Halden and local democracy in Halden – just as I trust that local democracy throughout Norway – will be able to find good solutions within the budget. I record that the Workers' Party in this questionnaire – I was about to say that in almost all other Question Time – is busy with the kindergarten figures. Those questions have been well answered by the Minister of Knowledge. Let me also show that there is nothing new that there is a discussion between the local government and the local government regarding the recovery of costs. It was under the Red-Green Government when it came to the Reform of Cooperation. We can go back into that discussion. There are many municipalities that believe that they were undercompensated at the time. Then the Workers' Party sat still. We're concerned with finding better computations, so we can hit better next time. Until we get it into place, we're going to set up a good municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e744	Kjersti Top - for the next question of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e747	According to the annual report of patients and users, there are now major challenges to priorities in the municipal health service. There is a warning about high thresholds for long-term hospitalization in many municipalities, and that ready-to-print patients are given priority over homebuilding with a need for download and rehabilitation. This is very serious for the inhabitants of the municipalities that will be bordered. The Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation has a great responsibility. He is responsible for the municipal economy that lays the framework for the care of the elderly. Can the Council of State guarantee that the local government will ensure the quality of care for the elderly and solve the challenges posed by the patient and user environment in its annual report?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e754	What has been revealed through this is to be taken seriously. This should be taken seriously – both those who are local politicians and we who are national politicians. Of course we have a responsibility. I fully agree with Toppe that ensuring a predictable and good local economy is important precisely in order for municipalities to be able to give priority to children, school, care for the elderly and the other important core tasks. I believe that the arrangements we have put in place mean that municipalities can cover the costs of both pensions and changes in the population. This means that priority can also be given to key areas of activity. But this is essentially a municipal responsibility, and I believe that we should have confidence that our local politicians are making wise and right choices, so that we can ensure the most vulnerable among us in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e759	Karin Andersen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e762	I hear the Minister for Local Affairs says that he has confidence in the local politicians, and I understand that he is betting that they should deal with these difficult groups that the government obviously cannot give priority to. But then it's a little strange that you don't trust the same local politicians when they say quite unambiguously to both government and government that this is too little money, when they clearly detect a concrete error in the calculations regarding kindergartens – which should have been corrected in the revised budget, but where the government rather uses its scarce resources to prioritize these small boat engines over the small people. The question is then: What is the reason why the municipal minister has not been trying to correct this calculation that the municipal politicians – who are very confident in being able to count and have to cope with all the fires – have shown to be wrong? It is possible to correct errors, so that you release cuts, e.g. in the care sector, because children are entitled to and must have a nursery place.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e767	The question of kindergartens has been answered by the Minister of Knowledge. Point two: It is not new that local politicians believe that it is too little money. It was also reversed every year when SV sat in government. We make sure that the municipalities have about the same growth in free income as they had when SV put in government, so that if SV now thinks it's so very tight – well, you might not have so much to boast about your own efforts in the eight years. So in the end: I register that the representative draws a comparison with the fact that you have removed this fee from boat engines. The representative might also be able to point out that this government has increased its efforts to give the weakest people a place to live by spending more on municipal rentals. We have increased the possibilities for municipalities to buy rental apartments, from 1000 to 1500 apartments. This will mean that more refugees can have a place to live, more families with poor advice can have a place to live, and more of those who are struggling with drugs and mental health challenges can have a place to live. That's what we give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e776	Then we're done with the oral question procedure, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e788	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the electronic question list. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Hege Haukeland Liadal to the Minister for Culture, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 3, from the representative Svein Roald Hansen to the Minister of Industry, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 7, from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Oil and Energy, was raised by the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås. Questions 10 and 11 from the representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien to the Minister of Knowledge are dismissed, as the questioner has a disease defect.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e807	‘In the examination of the national transport plan last year, it was decided to expand the intercity triangle between Fredrikstad, Hamar and Tønsberg by 2024 and the rest of the triangle as soon as possible thereafter. The government parties would have faster progress and, according to the government platform, would half the planning time, establish infrastructure funds of 100 billion. kr over five years, establish development companies and organise road and railway projects as separate projects with OPS. What is the status of the work on some of these objectives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e819	I am very happy to be able to inform you about the progress of many of the reforms we are conducting. We have seen that transportation is not just about how much money we spend, but about how we carry out projects. That's why we've started, as mentioned here, a reform work, where we're going to set up a separate road investment company. It is to be able to raise the projects to become larger, with longer lines, could think new in terms of routes and not be so tied to the annual budget appropriations. The road service is doing a very good job, but they are still dependent on annual budget appropriations. A road investment company with dedicated providers will be able to plan in a completely different way. In the revised budget, we have put forward proposals to set up an interim company, i.e. a preliminary company, which is given the task of taking this job further, with a view to establishing it during 2015. We are also working on a toll reform to ensure that we get funded road construction and toll projects that Stortinget wants, cheaper and more efficient than today. It's also important. The Infrastructure Fund is about being able to maintain roads and railways in a better way than today. Giving a clear signal to the Road Administration and the Railway Agency that there is a fund where the return will go to maintenance enables them to enter into contracts with a more long-term horizon. This means that contractors can also invest in equipment, because they know that the contracts last longer, so they have an opportunity to cancel it more predictably. That's what we think you'll get more for the maintenance money, and that this fund will grow over the next few years – up to 100 billion. kr – also means that the appropriations will grow gradually. So not only is the appropriation you had last year, safe for next year, but there will also be additional money. Then you can plan in a completely different way. We also work to put in place a similar scheme as the road company in the case of the railway. It's going to come a little later – we're working with the road company first. But with regard to the intercity bet mentioned, we have notified Stortinget that we are increasing the planned cost framework for Follobanen. There have been some increased costs compared to when one started planning the project, but also because one has priced some uncertainties. Now we're done planning it. It's been planned for a long time. Now one can start building, if the Storting makes its decisions. Here I am very pleased. Then there are some challenges down the line – when it comes to Ski Station and connection to the Eastern Line – but here too we have had very good dialogue with the local municipalities. We believe that the problems that were raised are now solved, and that we can ensure the progress of this. We have also said that some projects can be well funded as OPS. It's about shorter distances, for which the road company likes to get too big. Now we're looking at both sections of the road and sections where this solution can work. All in all, we are well on track with the great promise – and it will take some time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e836	Much of the discussion about NTP last year focused on the fact that, to a large extent, all parties wanted a more comprehensive development and faster progress in both road projects and railway projects. In the adopted NTP, it states, among other things: extending the intercity triangle to the completion by the end of 2024 of a continuous double track from Oslo to Tønsberg, Hamar and Seut/Fredrikstad. Furthermore, it states that the Railway Agency will be entrusted with a development strategy for the intercity development, which is enshrined in the Landfill Treatment of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The strategy shall set out the order of development and the progress plan so as to ensure that sections with the greatest benefit are realised first, while taking into account efficient planning and cost-effective development. We know that the Right proposed full expansion of intercity as quickly as possible and by 2030 at the latest – the Advance Party proposed by 2025. Can the Minister say anything about the progress of such a development strategy and whether it will accelerate the development of intercity, in line with the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e847	We are currently sticking to the plans that have been made for progress. In the NTP, for example, one said: that the Follo Tunnel should be completed by 2020, but the previous government postponed it by one year in its budget proposal, which was adopted last autumn. So we're working on 2021. I have the ambition that we should be able to speed this up – hopefully quite significant – but it depends on the company structures we want in place, the concrete OPS projects. It simply remains to be seen a little bit. It's about funding and organization, but within the framework we have now. Our small challenge is, of course, that we should both reform a system and make the system work in the projects in progress. That's why we've spent a lot of time traveling to e.g. Fredrikstad, Sarpsborg and Moss, where one has the challenge of projects both on the road and on the railway network, but not in common. They have to build bridges, for example, but with different time horizons. We want them to at least foundation things at the same time, even though the road and the railway open at different times.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e854	As I started by saying, the big discussion was just about the overall expansion, shortening planning time, etc. – that intercity would be planned and developed as a complete grip. I am looking to get the Minister's answer to: Do you now want to see another way to plan and build on intercity, for example. as a coherent project, unlike in the past, when it was built out piece by piece and piece, which has been the basis for the criticism – from all – against the development strategy so far? Will there be a change under this government in the creation of a comprehensive development strategy, with overall planning and development?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e861	I am as impatient as the representative: we have to change the system that was practiced under the previous government, a system that took too long. That's exactly why we're setting up a road investment company, an infrastructure fund. It allows for more predictable progress. We also need to ensure that planning is streamlined. The previous government spent four years agreeing on the E6s trajectory through Åkersvika – this government spent three weeks taking the matter further. One will also see in many other places that a political intervention takes place where there are conflicts between the government in different departments or between different levels of central government and local government. Here, I think the Right Party government is capable of cutting through faster than the others are. We have also said that in terms of planning, the Road Administration and the Railway Agency should sit down early and have joint conflict resolution councils, as we have seen in connection with the Ringerix Railway and the E16. It shows you can cut time. The road service said on the Day Revy that we have never worked like this before, but we think it can work. It suggests that as we get a modified system, there will also be a significantly faster planning and a faster implementation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e892	These questions are postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e899	‘The Hospital Telemark HF shall take the final decision on the 2014-2016 Development Plan on 20 May. In the setting, it is suggested to shut down the emergency facility at Rjukan Hospital and move the supply to Notodden and to shut down the emergency facility at Kragerø Hospital, for the benefit of Skien. Under the Health Care Act, significant changes shall not be ultimately decided by the health care establishment. How will the Council of State follow up the Political Decision of the Hospital Telemark HF?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e906	The Hospital Telemark has done an important job with its 2014–2016 Development Plan. The board of directors of the Hospital Telemark has now taken its decision. The case is to be sent to Health South-East. I want to hear their assessment. Then it has to be on my table. I've been, and I'm, clearly. Stopping all changes will weaken patient provision, but it is my responsibility to make sure that the changes that are taking place are in line with government policy. This matter has been kept well informed by the most important parties to the case. It is important that the controllers make the necessary plans to ensure good treatment quality in the future. The Hospital Telemark has worked on this development plan for a long time. We know the content well. I have therefore stated earlier that I will not initially stop working with the plans. I will take an assessment of the plans, now that the decision has been taken in Telemark. In the government platform, we state that there are quality and patient safety considerations to justify changes in emergency and food supply. I want to be sure that there is consideration for the patients, and the services you can offer them, which lies behind the plans of the Hospital Telemark. However, I am committed to a rapid final clearance, not least in the interests of the employees concerned – but also in the interests of patients who deserve an assurance that they have a good and safe health service. Everyone shall have safe and good health services. It is then necessary to look at how hospitals will develop to meet the needs of the future. Changes shall be changes that are best for the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e923	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State says that he knows the content of the matter well, and that he takes responsibility for the final decisions. This case also has a principle side, which I believe the Council of State should be able to answer already now. At the first point in the Governing Council decision yesterday, the board of directors in the enterprise is indebted to Section 30, i.e. that the changes made are not of such a nature or scale that they need to be submitted to political leadership and that the decision does not have significant societal or preparedness implications. We know that the company law in 2013 was clarified by an example of what is a significant change. Among other things, extensive changes in the hospital structure in the health region should not be made by the health care establishment. The question is whether the Council of State considers point 1 of the Governing Council to be correct or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e936	I believe, of course, that the hospital board in Telemark is competent to make this decision, but that these are plans that involve changes to the emergency services offered by the Hospital Telemark in Tinn. In the government platform, the government says that we will not accept closures of emergency and food supplies, unless they are justified in patient safety and quality. Therefore, I believe that these are plans that are so significant that they must be dealt with by me at the business meeting, in line with Section 30. It is important for me to stress that it is the Minister of Health and Care, the Council of State, who is the corporate meeting in Health South-East. When we had a round about this in the questionnaire last week, according to the representative Toppe's statement, it was made as if it were the Stortinget that is the decisive authority in this type of case, according to Section 30. It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e945	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that these are significant changes and that the enterprise is wrong when it is based on an indication that this should not be presented with political guidance. So I want to clarify one thing. It is that the Council of State is inaccurate when he says that the Storting has said that such matters do not go to Stortinget. I would ask the Council of State to read the comments from the introduction of the Enterprise Act in 2001, where both the Right, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party wrote that substantial changes should be decided by the Enterprise Meeting, but then they come up with a supplement that in practice it would say that such matters should go all the way to government/payment. That would have been the intention. My question is again: Will the Council of State listen to the people and let a popular assembly decide on the decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e954	It is quite clear in the Business Act that it is the business meeting that takes these kinds of decisions, and the business meeting in the Health Region is the Minister of Health and Welfare. What is also evident in all the work done by the current government parties in the United Kingdom on these issues is that one believes that it is the more general structures and priorities of the healthcare system to be laid down in the National Health and Hospital Plan, but that it is not that the Storting should be governed in all hospitals in Norway. As to whether there is a fault as the Hospital Telemark draws up in its point 1, it is based on a legal investigation. The legal investigation is based on the practice of the Red-Green Government in dealing with Section 30. I have said that for my part this is a significant question that I am going to address, but it is not wrong to show that this has actually been the practice under the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e965	‘A good and predictable ambulance service is essential for those living and working in the districts to receive prompt medical treatment when needed. The board of Ambulansse Mid-Norway recently discussed an option to cut the ambulance offer in the South-Trundelag. It was only political pressure from the municipalities that prevented the cuts. The cuts were only exposed, and there is now a dialogue between the board of Health Mid-Norway and the affected municipalities. What will the Council of State do to prevent cuts in this literally vital offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e972	Equal health care for the population is important, and it is a fundamental principle that citizens should be safe to get competent help when they need it. The matter raised by the representative, Valen, was presented as part of a package of measures presented by the Administration of Ambulansse Mid-Norway HF to the Board of Health as part of the year’s budgetary procedure. Ambulance Mid-Norway, as you know, has a total budget challenge of 25 million. kr. The action plan specifically addresses the adjustment or adaptation of the emergency response at a number of ambulance stations in Health Mid-Norway, namely 7 out of a total of 68 stations, two of which are in Southern Trøndelag. Health Mid-Norway states that it is not a matter of shutting down or removing ambulance stations, but of adapting the emergency room. The following measures are under consideration: to convert a daily car into a day-car, which means that the car is driving when the traffic is larger, i.e. between 08.00 and 20.00 at stations with two daily cars: consider removing car 2 at low number stations or reducing the availability of holiday time At the stations concerned is the total driving base, i.e. the number of assignments and the proportion of active time of total standby, relatively low. According to Health Mid-Norway, this is why these proposals may be appropriate, cost-reduction measures. Health Mid-Norway stresses that the list of possible measures should not be considered as definitive. The analysis and planning of the measures, in cooperation with the hospital establishments, is a prerequisite for the administration and the board of directors, i.e. Health Møre and Romsdal HF, St. Olavs Hospital HF and Health Nord-Trøndelag HF and in dialogue with the relevant municipalities. This means carrying out preparedness analyses based on activity data, including: the likelihood of so-called simultaneous conflicts can be calculated. In addition, risk and vulnerability analyses shall be carried out of each individual measure and the overall impact on the preparedness of the area. Health regions are responsible for dimensioning the ambulance service to ensure adequate emergency medical preparedness. I would, of course, take the view that Health Mid-Norway ensures a proper offer to the people of the region within the economic frameworks provided by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e999	I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. This is a matter of great concern in the South-Trundellag, both on the Fozen, on Oppdal, in the Røros region, etc. A midwife at Oppdal, Ingvilll Dalseg, who is also a member of the Minister of Health, has, incidentally, said the following: ‘A birth usually goes well, but the balance is fine in hair, and it is fatal if it does not.’ Then we are really at the heart of the matter, because the interaction reform is also taking place very early in moving patients from the specialist health service and back to the districts. Ambulances are used more than before for non-acute tasks, and then it is going wrong to cut the emergency service. Is it so to understand that the Minister of Health has not intended to deal with it if it turns out that there will be a large cut in the ambulance service in Central Norway? And if the Minister of Health can't deal with it, which politicians can do it?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1011	I explained in detail in my reply how this decision-making process should continue. First of all, that means we're going to have a good emergency offer in Health Mid-Norway. That's the assumption, that's the bottom plan. Then the municipalities concerned will be involved, and good risk analyses and assessments will be carried out, including: related to the absence of impaired preparedness as a result of a conflict of co-existence, which then concerns the issue of patient transport. The Health Mid-Norway Ambulance Service, which is close to, has the prerequisites for assessment, and the Health Region is the next level responsible for ensuring that the Ambulance Service in Central Norway is at an adequate level.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1016	The county representative Randi Reese from SV addressed this question in the county council of the South Trondelag. Then County rapporteur Tore O. Sandvik wrote a good answer where, among other things, states: ‘There is every reason to respond to the needs of the ambulance service, especially if many of the cost problems in the service are due to under-budgeting in relation to the expected cost.’ Here we are also at the heart of the matter, because this is a cut that according to a lot of people in the county comes as a result of under-budgeting, and then it is no longer the readiness that stands in the driver's seat, then it is budgetary purpose. State politicians and local politicians no longer have the opportunity to intervene directly in these processes after the corporate reform. It is then acknowledged that the Minister of Health or other politicians are clearly in charge. My question is: If patients, rapporteurs and health professionals in the South-Trøndelag do not think the preparedness is good enough after any cuts, will the Minister of Health be more committed?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1028	I say that the municipalities that the representative here mentions will be heard and involved in the decision-making process that is now taking place, and then these moments will come up. Of course, I always want to assess whether the offer to patients is good enough after decisions are made, but there is nothing to suggest that this is going to be a decision that implies that a given offer is not good enough for patients. Of course, in this kind of discussion about change, there will always be discussions. There are discussions that we want, that is the kind of open processes in which people express themselves, where people participate in the discussion, which is an important part of the basis for the final decisions to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1037	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: ‘It was recently known that the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police, which is responsible for registering all asylum seekers in Norway, is to be moved to Tøen in Oslo. This move has created cross-political responses because the country and the municipality agree to implement a Tögen uplift over the next five years, where one of the measures is to reduce the number of institutions and activities in the area that can contribute to problem-solving. Will the Council of State ask the police to reconsider the transfer of the Police Foreign Unit to Tøen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1046	A similar question was asked by the representative Trine Skei Grande on 14 May this year – that was a written question – and I would quote the main part of my reply to the representative Grande: ‘JD was informed by its own letter of 27 March 2012 that the Foreign Affairs Department needed new premises when their current tenure expired in December 2014. [[PU]] At that time, larger rentals would be required, i.e. the letter of award shall be submitted to the Ministry for approval. In the Ministry’s reply on 11 June 2012, it was agreed that work on finding new premises could be started, and after that there has been no written correspondence between the Ministry and the Police Directorate on this matter. [[POD]] At that time, concrete localisation was not a topic.’ The Directorate of Police is now authorised to enter into rental contracts for the Police and Liaison Committee. ‘POD has, on this basis, given the PU approval in letter of 7.4.2014 to conclude a new lease for premises Økernvejen 11-13. The agreement was concluded in April, with a termination clause after five years. This suggests that it could cost a lot of money. to terminate the plans for establishment on Tøen. The government wants to improve the governance of the public sector. We need fewer and clearer targets, and we need to show confidence in the leaders of the state. [[...]] In the light of the above, I do not think it appropriate to intervene in this matter now." This was a representation of the main parts of the answer that Stortinget has already received in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1063	I thank you for your answer. There are two important considerations that should indicate that this should not happen. One is the consideration of the local area and the development we are trying to achieve in the Tøen area now, to which there is a cross-political consensus to add up for the next five years by, among others. relocating measures and institutions that may lead to problem-solving. The second concerns asylum seekers themselves. It is important that, when they come to Norway, they do not come to areas like this. There are many drug users, where there is a lot of khat abuse, in that part of Norway and Oslo where they are going to move. So this is negative for both the local area and the asylum seekers. So I'll ask you one more time: doesn't the Council of State see reason to listen to the inter-political reaction that has come from the politicians in Oslo, and also react to the fact that there has been no contact between the Police Foreign Unit and the Municipality of Oslo in connection with this establishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1074	I think it's very important to listen to local political signals. The challenge now is that this has been handled by people other than the ministry. The Ministry has not been involved in the conclusion of this specific agreement. If one were to make special geographical requirements or other types of requirements for this process, the natural time to make it appear in 2012. There has been no dialogue on this between the Ministry and the Police Directorate/Police Foreign Affairs Unit after the change of government. The Ministry has simply not been involved in this process. The practical challenge now would be if you were to review the delegation given to the Police Directorate by not complying with the lease entered into. It would create major legal challenges, it would create major economic challenges, and it would lead to a major risk that the police diversion unit would not have a place to be after 31.12. That is not a proper situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1081	I understand the problem that they signed the contract in April. What would have been interesting to know more about is how much it will cost if this contract is cancelled or changed, and whether it is appropriate to put other state enterprises there instead, which will not lead to similar problems – at all, that the Council of State had gone into it more. I had an interpellation a while ago here in Stortinget, where precisely the coordination of the different parts of the state in terms of these area lifts, and the area lift on the Tøen, were discussed. The state needs to know what the various agencies are doing to contribute to this promise. It should also have been communicated to the Police Directorate and to the various parts of the state. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he will go further into what it might mean to make changes to this contract, and whether he will also ensure that there is better coordination in the future with regard to these area promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1090	I'm not going to take any further initiative to stop this rental relationship. This is a lease that was concluded in February. The economic and practical consequences of stopping that process I do not have an overview of on the standing ground, because it will be a legal discussion in the event, but it will obviously trigger a large claim for compensation. There will be major challenges for the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police, and I think it is bad governance in the state if the Council of State – one month after a lease has been concluded under the authority of the same Council of State – is to interfere in the localisation elections. I believe that the previous government should give the signals that the representative of Bohemia is now giving, if it was important for them to take care of this. We haven't given those signals. The major problem referred to by the representative, Mr Bøhler, is not necessarily so great in practice. This is not an asylum reception in any way; it is a registration reception. On a regular day, there will be 20 asylum seekers in the area – mainly within the building framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1101	This question, from the representative of Ingunn Gjerstad to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is raised by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1104	After last week's events, it would have been tempting to ask the Council of State about Utsira, but I won't do that. I am going to do what I have tried to do for months, namely to ask a question about Advanced measurement and management systems. The question is as follows: ‘Is the AMS going to be put in place in all Norwegian homes by 1 January 2019, and will the Council of State ensure that these have specifications that allow demand management of the current, so as to reduce the maximum load in the mains?’ [[Advanced measurement and management systems]]
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1111	I am pleased that we finally had time to implement this exchange of words, and I am also pleased with the question. I hope that means that SV is still behind the ambition for a quick introduction of Advanced measurement and management systems. It will facilitate an efficient and robust power supply. It will contribute to a more renewable low-carbon society and contribute to better and more efficient use of energy. By 1 January 2019, all network companies shall have an AMS installed with all their customers. These are requirements laid down in the regulations of the previous government, which I have intentions to follow up. Some companies have already installed AMS with their customers, but the majority are still in the start-up phase of this work. The NVE is responsible for monitoring the development of the AMS and from 1 January 2015 all network companies shall report annually on the progress of the installation of the AMS to the NVE. That means we have four years from 1 January of this year to 2019. I can assure the representative Holmås that we will follow this up and assess stronger instruments to the extent necessary in the ambition to put this in place everywhere on 1 January 2019. Then it's also like the representative Holmå's demand, that the AMS will be designed so that the power can be shut down or limited at the end-user. If individual load control is desired, additional equipment may be installed. That's what technology will allow. And there is a requirement for the AMS to be provided with a technical interface that allows this installation of this type of infrastructure. This would allow the use of AMS, for example: for the decoupling of floor heating, water heaters, etc., and electric cars during high load periods, which are important both to reduce energy use – use energy more efficiently – but also to avoid high grid loads. All of this is important. If we are to be able to further develop the renewable society, it is important to use the resources properly. That's what the AMS will do. So I think it's important that it's the market that decides which additional services develop the different locations. I am absolutely sure the industry will take advantage of this opportunity. Both the network companies and other commercial operators will then be able to provide end-user management services, where there is a business basis for this, when we know that that type of business model has already been developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1126	I'm very pleased with the answer. It shows, as I see it, an commitment from the Council of State to ensure that the AMS is completed now by 1 January 2019. I think that's good, because there are several reasons why this is important. One reason why this is important is of course, if you look at the use of power and the load in the networks around, is that there are only a few times in the day and would like to just a few times in the year that it is up to the maximum use of the network. Setting up pricing systems and other systems to avoid new, expensive deployments of cables is crucial. It's going to be a much more efficient use of society's resources if you can get people to do a lot of work to disconnect the power, when the load is higher. The question to the Council of State is then: will the NVE go in and make sure that the network companies have such systems and plans in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1133	As I said, from 1 January 2015 we will ensure that all the network companies report annually to the NVE about this. There are four years until this will be in place, and there are some of the broadcasters that are going to spend significant parts of the four years to provide for it. That's the one. The second is that I am convinced that the network companies are going to see the possibility AMS gives them to develop new business models, for example. in the case of flow management. All those required to install the AMS will be required to have interfaces such that the type of ancillary services can be provided. Then I believe that the market has to make sure it comes into place. It is, in any case, an important part of the rationale for this system, and that is where we can extract a significant portion of saved resources in the future, which the representative also points to.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1138	My question was not about: is everyone going to have AMS in place? It was about whether the Council of State is going to ask the NVE to ensure that one also has that kind of management system. It's not about getting the AMS boxes and these things in place, but about adding that companies get a push to implement systems that actually have market systems or other regulatory systems, which make it possible to cut off the flow. The reason I'm asking about this is that there are huge differences in the country and between online companies about how much commitment they have shown for this. It's in Fredrikstad that you've been the most active towards us at Stortinget, to show that this is a huge potential for good power management, but also to make sure to meet it that there are now more and more people coming home, studying in their electric cars and creating a huge strain on the power grid. So my question is: will the Council of State ensure that the NVE requires plans from the network companies to have management systems in place and do as in other countries that have implemented this, for example. Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1147	I will now say it for the third time: the AMS will be delivered with interfaces that are open and allow the installation of ancillary equipment and the development of business models, which are fully in line with what Mr Holmås says. So we may have to consider further regulation of this field once in the future, but now we know that the network companies have to make some large investments in order to implement the AMS. I am absolutely sure that the online companies that do that job will also look for new ways and new business models and defend the investment they have to make, both to their owners and to the customers who have to take a significant part of the bill. Then, in the future, we will be able to assess whether we need to introduce further regulatory action to achieve the objective of precisely what the representative Holmås with good reason is concerned about, namely an efficient and robust power supply system and an important contribution to energy efficiency improvement in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1158	‘Norway, together with Estonia, launched in 2009 the adoption by the Security Council of Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security, TR1325, as a NATO policy. NATO has subsequently given increasing emphasis to the gender perspective in its operations. In 2012, a Norwegian diplomat was appointed NATO’s first Special Representative for Women, Peace and Security. The appointment gives a strong signal of the priority this has in the alliance. When NATO is going to put its new strategy at the summit in September, will the government follow this up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1165	There's been a lot of positive in NATO since that representative now mentioned was founded. NATO developed its own policy in 2007 in this area and in 2010 a separate action plan that steers the work of Security Council Resolution 1325. As the representative correctly mentioned, Mari Skåre, a Norwegian diplomat, joined in 2012 as the first special representative for women, peace and security. In 2013, an evaluation was carried out on behalf of NATO and the Nordic Centre for Gender in Military Operations. The evaluations referred to the practical implications of the implementation of Resolution 1325 in NATO operations so far. The report was presented at the Minister of Defence meeting in Brussels last October, and I myself was present to receive the report, and it was a fine event. The evaluation carried out by NATO highlights the significant progress made in integrating the gender perspective into NATO-led operations. At the same time, however, it is very clear that there is a need for increased competence in this area. Among other things, good mechanisms have been established to implement ‘gender policy’ in NATO’s strength structure. Gender advisers have also been established in the organisation, which is highlighted as a very good example in a concrete way to increase competence and not least knowledge of these issues in NATO. In October last year, Norway took the initiative to draw attention to the issue of women, peace and security in NATO in the run-up to the September summit. It received broad support from allies and partners, so the theme is on the agenda for the summit and is one of the themes that NATO will profile towards the Wales meeting. A new and overall policy for implementing Resolution 1325 and related resolutions was endorsed at the NATO Foreign Minister’s meeting in April and the action plan is under development. Under the plan, voluntary organisations will also be invited to participate in the work, so the new framework will be presented at the summit. Studies have also been conducted in Norway based on how we operated at ISAF headquarters and in PRT Meymaneh from 2009 to 2012. There's a lot of feedback going in the direction that the gender counselor's function didn't have as clear an effect as you might hope, but everyone thought there should be gender advisors in military operations, and I think that's an important lesson. There's a relatively new field, but I think there's room to develop this further. Both management anchoring, competence and training and training are required to function properly. On the Norwegian side, we are working to ensure that the position of the Secretary-General's Special Adviser for Women, Peace and Security will become a permanent part of the international secretariat for the summit – not only as a matter of concern to some countries, but also as a permanent part of NATO's structure. We propose to be a very active and clear driver for this towards the summit.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1178	Thanks for the answer. It sounds very happy that this is something on the agenda. As I began to say, the Red-Green Government took the initiative to establish an action plan for the follow-up to Resolution 1325, such as the one on the agenda. As a result, the theme came on the agenda in NATO, and also nationally, and the financing of the NATO Special Representative for Women, Peace and Security. Clearly, the NATO Summit will be an excellent opportunity to look at both what has been achieved and what has been achieved in the future. I think it's a great step to get the special representative in as a permanent part of the strategy conference. What I'm asking is: Norway took the initiative and provided funding – will Norway contribute to the continued funding of such a position? It'll be an important part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1187	It has been important for Norway to ensure that this is part of the Permanent Secretariat of the Secretary-General in our work against the summit. Then I think one of the important things we can do, as well as focusing on it and raising the theme against the summit, is that we make sure that this is part of the jointly funded institutions. There is always a certain risk when individual countries undertake to finance specialities over a long period of time, whether in NATO, in the United Nations or elsewhere, because the same kind of attention is not given to it from all countries, and the same responsibility from all countries. That's why we primarily want to get this into the ordinary structure as part of NATO's co-financed positions. In this way, ownership among the other countries will also increase, and it will be easier to be what all countries want, which all countries take responsibility for, and where several countries can, of course, also contribute their candidates to the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1192	Then my last follow-up questions are: Now perhaps NATO has been a little down-priority, you might say, in the economic situation that many of the European countries have been in at least. Wouldn't it be a challenge to get the other countries to expand the staff, to say that? Has the Council of State been in contact with other countries, so that there is a strategy that will actually result in a common financing and that it will be part of the permanent staff, so that you can count on support for it? And is it that the other countries will continue to support a strategy to have the theme of follow-up to Resolution 1325 on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1199	As I mentioned earlier, we have received a very good response to our initiative. It also gives me hope that there will be a desire from several countries to contribute to the joint financing of this position as well. There is one position that is initially involved, and I think it will be possible for countries to allocate resources to it within a co-financed system. At the same time, I believe it is important not only to think about this one job and to get it into – I would say – the Secretariat of the Secretary-General. It is also important that we continue work on action plans, follow-up, and not least implementation. What we know from work in both the UN and elsewhere on these issues is that there are often many fine plans, but there is a little lack of actual implementation. It's e.g. One historic month right now, where we have appointed the United Nations First Women's Force Commander. It was the Norwegian Major General Kristin Lund – very happy, but it is the first time. It probably tells something about how to work more targetedly with women, peace and security in all organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1210	I have the following questions for the Minister of Defence: ‘Follow Section 25 of the Constitution, one must have the approval of the Stortinget for the use of Norwegian military forces outside Norway’s borders, and the forces ‘must not be left in the service of future powers’. From this point of view, how can Norway participate with up to 70 members of the Nordic Battle Group, with Sweden as its leader, and how will the government ensure that the Stortinget is truly free to decide whether Norwegian forces should participate in a concrete EU operation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1219	The government will ensure that the Storting is truly free to decide whether Norwegian forces should participate in a concrete EU-led operation. The government does this in exactly the same way as the previous government, as the Central Party representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, was part of, and they did over eight years. It was also a period when Norway twice made a strong contribution to the EU Battle Group with Sweden as a leading nation, so I am a little surprised by the question. Participation in international operations has been and remains an important part of Norwegian security policy. This question has two sides. It is also about the relationship with the Basic Law § 25. Norwegian participation in EU-led battle groups will not be contrary to the Constitution § 25. This is rooted in sound constitutional practice. It is also in line with the practice of the previous government, of which the Central Party was part, and in which the representative Navarsete sat. This provision has been assessed several times in view of Norwegian participation in various types of military operations abroad, particularly under the command of the Alliert Joint Command, but also under the command of another State. There is a safe constitutional practice that it is not considered to prevent that type of participation in collective crisis management and security arrangements. Examples include the UN Charter initial security system itself, the German Brigade, NATO command system, the Gulf War effort, NATO operations against Yugoslavia during the Kosovo crisis and participation in EU operations. In Norway, we assume that our safety is being built together with others, and we cannot be ourselves enough. Today, we need to deal with collective crisis management and security arrangements. They are being developed, among others: in cooperation with organisations Norway is a member of, like NATO and the UN, and organisations of which we are not a member, such as the EU. We have then reported strengths for possible use in EU operations, but there will nevertheless be an independent assessment of whether these forces should be deployed in specific operations. This was also consulted in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on 25 February. I did not register any resistance from the Center Party to report up to 70 personnel in the Nordic Battle Group for the first half of 2015. It's under Swedish leadership. The Bondevik II government sent 15 soldiers in operations under EU command. The government of Liv Signe Navarsete was part of, sent 217 soldiers. I can't help but assume that the representative Navarsete, then as a member of the government, thinks she did it on a sufficiently constitutional basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1236	The reason why I ask and the background to drill a little bit more in the government's positions is on the basis of the government. In the past, it has been almost customary, for there have been several governments which, on their basis, have had foreign operations carried out by a United Nations mandate. It's gone in the foundation of this government. So the question is, what is the significance of the government's approach to international operations? What does it mean to how a meeting the Storting in such matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1241	Although the previous government had explicit opinions on the UN mandate, they nevertheless sent a large number of Norwegian soldiers under EU command, under the command of other countries, in operations. On the part of this government, we think exactly the same way, we participate in the crisis management operations where it is appropriate for Norwegian interests and where we can contribute. We want clear ground of international law – that is a matter of course for any government. The UN mandate is one, and it is highly desirable, but there are also other grounds for international law to participate in operations, of which self-defence is one. It is natural for the Norwegian government to assess, in exactly the same way that the government of Navarsete put in, it assessed. This will be our line in all operations, and we will consult the Stortinget in a very common way, as all governments have done – according to Section 16 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1248	It is very good to right that the basis for the work to be done seems to be unchanged even if the basis for the government has changed. Then you can only speculate on why you don't have -- what to say -- the basis for foreign operations that the previous government had, that one should have a UN mandate. Are there any restrictions, as the ministar sees it, on what mission Norway can participate in under the Swedish leadership of the Nordic Battle Group or the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1255	I assume that we are making the assessments that the representative Navarsete also made when she was in government, about what was going on in order to possibly activate Norwegian participation in the EU Battle Group under Swedish command in both 2008 and 2011. As I said, it will be a concrete assessment, in which the EU will assess whether it will be implemented, and then it will be each country that decides if they want to activate the strength contribution they have notified. What situations you can imagine in the future, it's hard to predict now, but of course it'll be a natural and thorough discussion in the government, just as I'm sure it was in the government of Navarsete. So the question of why this is not part of UN mandates. It is, as I have explained, because this government believes that we should have a clear basis for international law to contribute to operations, but there are also other imaginable bases of international law than the UN mandate, although it is a narrower access.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1287	These questions lapse, as the questioner is not present. Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2014-05-21.ana.ud1159e1302	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
